FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20080729071308.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 29, 2008, Entergy Corporation issued two public announcements, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto (the "Earnings Releases") and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the second quarter 2008. The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On November 3, 2007, the Board of Directors of Entergy Corporation approved a plan to pursue a separation of its non-utility nuclear business from Entergy's regulated utility business through a tax-free spin-off of Enexus Energy Corporation, which will hold Entergy's non-utility nuclear business.  On July 29, 2008, Entergy Corporation announced that its Board of Directors had approved certain elements of the leadership structure and designated individuals who will fill key board and management roles at Enexus Energy Corporation.  As a result of such approval, William A. Percy, II, a member of the Board of Directors of Entergy Corporation, is expected to be elected a director Enexus Energy Corporation and Richard J. Smith, President and Chief Operating Officer of Entergy Corporation, is expected to be named Chief Executive Officer and be elected a director of Enexus Corporation.  Upon completion of the spin-off, Mr. Percy is expected to resign from the Board of Directors of Entergy Corporation and Mr. Smith is expected to resign from his position as President and Chief Operating Officer of Entergy Corporation.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
On July 29, 2008, Entergy Corporation issued the Earnings Releases, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the second quarter 2008. The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Entergy Corporation
 
By: Theodore H. Bunting, Jr. Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Dated: July 29, 2008
/s/ Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.

INVESTOR NEWS
Exhibit 99.1
July 29, 2008
NEW ORLEANS - Entergy Corporation reported second quarter 2008 earnings of $1.37 per share on an as-reported basis and $1.46 per share on an operational basis, as shown in Table 1 below. A more detailed discussion of quarterly results begins on page 2 of this release.
Operational Earnings Highlights for Second Quarter 2008
Utility, Parent & Other had higher earnings due primarily to increased revenues.
Entergy Nuclear earnings increased as a result of additional production and higher power prices.
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business reported lower results due primarily to the absence of the benefit of lower income tax expense recorded in second quarter 2007.
"We remain committed and on track in our efforts to add value for our owners and to maintain high quality, affordable service for our customers in an increasingly challenging national economic environment," said . "We've achieved solid progress on a number of initiatives in the first half of 2008 and we expect the second half of 2008 to see the realization of a number of our goals and objectives for all of our stakeholders."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chairman and chief executive officer
 
 
Entergy's business highlights include the following:
Entergy Arkansas, Inc. received approval from the Arkansas Public Service Commission for the acquisition of the Ouachita plant, a 789 MW load-following combined-cycle gas turbine facility located near Monroe, La.
Entergy Nuclear received a Top Industry Practice Award (TIP) presented by the Nuclear Energy Institute (NEI). NEI TIP awards recognize nuclear energy operators for innovations that improve safety, economics, or plant performance.
Entergy achieved progress in its effort to secure regulatory approvals for its proposed non-utility nuclear spin-off transaction with receipt of Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and Nuclear Regulatory Commission approvals for the spin-off transaction.
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10:00 a.m. CT on Tuesday, July 29, 2008, with access by telephone, 719-457-2080, confirmation code 2740813. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergy's Web site at
www.entergy.com
. A replay of the teleconference will be available for seven days thereafter by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 2740813. The replay will also be available on Entergy's Web site at
www.entergy.com
.
Consolidated Results
Consolidated Earnings
Table 2 provides a comparative summary of consolidated earnings per share for second quarter 2008 versus 2007, including a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings. Utility, Parent & Other had higher earnings due to increased revenues from sales growth, partially offset by higher operation and maintenance expense. Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business reported lower results due to the absence in the current period of the benefit from lower income tax expense recorded in second quarter 2007. Entergy's results for the current period also reflect the positive effect of accretio n associated with the company's share repurchase program.
Entergy Nuclear's earnings increased as a result of additional production from fewer outage days and the Palisades plant acquired in second quarter 2007, as well as higher power prices. These items were partially offset by higher operation and maintenance expense and an impairment recorded for certain decommissioning trust fund investments.
Detailed earnings variance analysis is included in appendices B-1 and B-2 to this release. In addition, appendix B-3 provides details of special items shown in Table 2 above.
Consolidated Net Cash Flow Provided by Operating Activities
Entergy's net cash flow provided by operating activities in second quarter 2008 was $465 million compared to $471 million in second quarter 2007. The decrease was due primarily to reduced collections at the Utility of deferred fuel recovery in the current quarter totaling $243 million and the absence in the current quarter of $177 million of CDBG funding received by Entergy New Orleans, Inc. in second quarter 2007. These items were largely offset by higher net revenues at Entergy Nuclear of $195 million and changes in Utility net payables/receivables of $159 million.
 
Table 3 provides the components of net cash flow provided by operating activities contributed by each business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons.
II.
Utility, Parent & Other Results
In , Utility, Parent & Other had earnings of $0.62 per share on as-reported basis and $0.71 per share on an operational basis, compared to $0.59 per share in as-reported earnings and operational earnings in second quarter 2007. Operational results for Utility, Parent & Other in second quarter 2008 reflect higher revenues from sales growth, partially offset by higher operation and maintenance expense. The higher expense primarily reflects increased charges for storm damages and loss reserves and higher employee benefits expense.
second quarter 2008
Electricity usage, in gigawatt-hour sales by customer segment, is included in Table 4. Current quarter sales reflect the following:
Residential sales in second quarter 2008, on a weather-adjusted basis, showed a 2 percent increase compared to second quarter 2007.
Commercial and governmental sales, on a weather-adjusted basis, were up 3 percent.
Industrial sales in the current quarter were down 1 percent compared to the same period one year ago.
The residential sales sector showed an increase quarter to quarter with sales growth across jurisdictions and the most significant increase on a percentage basis at Entergy New Orleans, Inc., where post-storm recovery continues. An increase in the number of customers also contributed to sales growth in the residential sector as well as the commercial and governmental sectors. Sales in the industrial sector for second quarter 2008decreased compared to the same quarter of 2007. High utilization in the refining and chemical segments continues to contribute to sales growth although gains in these segments were more than offset by weakness in pipelines and all segments associated with housing including wood, pulp and paper. National economic weakness is affecting small and mid-sized industrial customers while efficiency improvements driven by high energy prices are producing declining sales in some areas.
Table 4 provides a comparative summary of the Utility's operational performance measures.
(a
)
Customer count data reflects estimates of customers in the hardest hit areas affected by Hurricane Katrina.  Issues associated with temporary housing and resumption of service at permanent dwellings render precise counts difficult at this time.
 
Appendix C provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
III.
Competitive Businesses Results
Entergy's competitive businesses include Entergy Nuclear and Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets.
Entergy Nuclear
Entergy Nuclear earned $0.73 per share on as-reported and operational bases in second quarter 2008, compared to $0.54 in second quarter 2007 for as-reported and operational earnings. Entergy Nuclear's earnings increased as a result of additional production due to fewer outage days and from the Palisades plant acquired in second quarter 2007, as well as higher power prices. These items were partially offset by higher expense primarily associated with deferring costs for only one refueling outage during second quarter 2008 versus deferrals for two refueling outages in 2007 and the effect of including Palisades in the portfolio. An additional item partially offsetting the increase in results for the current quarter was an impairment recorded in second quarter 2008 in connection with decommissioning trust fund investments.
With respect to outage days, two planned refueling outages occurred in second quarter 2007 totaling 57 days while one planned refueling outage was completed in second quarter 2008 requiring 19 outage days. In addition, an extended unplanned outage of 28 days is reflected in second quarter 2007 results.
Table 5 provides a comparative summary of Entergy Nuclear's operational performance measures.
Entergy Nuclear's sold forward position is 93%, 83%, and 59% of planned generation at average prices per megawatt-hour of $55, $61 and $58, for 2008, 2009, and 2010, respectively. Table 6 provides capacity and generation sold forward projections for Entergy Nuclear.
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business earned $0.02 per share on both as-reported and operational bases in second quarter 2008 compared to $0.19 per share on as-reported and operational bases in second quarter 2007. The decrease was due primarily to the absence in the current period of the benefit of lower income tax expense in second quarter 2007 resulting from the resolution of tax audit issues.
IV.
Earnings Guidance
Entergy is reaffirming 2008 earnings guidance in the range of $6.50 to $6.90 per share on both as-reported and operational bases on a business as usual basis. Guidance for 2008 does not include a special item for expenses, a portion of which were incurred during the current quarter, anticipated in connection with the plan to pursue separation of Entergy's non-utility nuclear business and to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, both discussed below and in Appendix A. Year-over-year changes are shown as point estimates and are applied to 2007 actual results to compute the 2008 guidance midpoint. Because there is a range of possible outcomes associated with each earnings driver, a range is applied to the calculated guidance midpoints to produce Entergy's guidance ranges for as-reported and operational earnings. 2008 earnings guidance is detailed in Table 7 below.
 
(e) Updated January 2008 to reflect 2007 final results.
 
Key assumptions supporting 2008 earnings guidance are as follows:
Utility, Parent & Other
Normal weather
Retail sales growth of roughly 2%
Increased revenue associated with rate actions
Decreased non-fuel operation and maintenance expense, primarily due to higher discount rate on benefit plans, absence of minimum bill write-offs, and lower storm reserves
Increased depreciation associated with rate base growth
Decreased interest expense as a result of receiving proceeds from Louisiana storm securitization, net of effects on interest expense of other financings
Decreased other income due primarily to absence of 2007 carrying costs reflected for storm settlements
Decreased income taxes associated with absence of the 2007 fourth quarter income tax adjustments
Entergy Nuclear
41 TWh of total output, reflecting an approximate 94% capacity factor, including 30 day refueling outages at Indian Point 2 in Spring 2008, and FitzPatrick and Vermont Yankee, both in Fall 2008
91% energy sold under existing contracts; 9% sold into the spot market (Additional sales after guidance was issued increased sold forward position to 92%)
$54/MWh average energy contract price; $69/MWh average unsold energy price based on published market prices in October 2007
$22.10/MWh non-fuel operation and maintenance expense/purchased power with increase primarily due to full year of Palisades operation (acquired mid April 2007); $21.30/MWh production cost
Increased depreciation due to continued investment in nuclear fleet and full year of Palisades operation
Increased income tax expense associated with absence of the 2007 fourth quarter income tax adjustments, a change in New York state tax law and the step-up in tax basis from restructuring the Indian Point 2 non-quali fied decommissioning trust fund
 
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Increased income tax associated with the absence of the 2007 fourth quarter income tax adjustments, favorable resolution of tax audit issues, and benefits associated with project restructurings
Share Repurchase Program
2008 average fully diluted shares outstanding of approximately 197 million
Special Items
Absence of 2007 nuclear alignment charge
Earnings guidance for 2008 should be considered in association with earnings sensitivities as shown in Table 8. These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in operational earnings resulting from changes in various revenue and expense drivers. Utility sales are expected to be the most significant variable for 2008 results for Utility, Parent & Other. At Entergy Nuclear, energy prices are expected to be the most significant driver of results in 2008. Estimated annual impacts shown in Table 8 are intended to be indicative rather than precise guidance.
V.
Business Separation
On November 3, 2007, Entergy's Board of Directors approved a plan to pursue a separation of the non-utility nuclear business from Entergy's regulated utility business through a tax-free spin-off of the non-utility nuclear business. Enexus Energy Corporation, formerly referred to as SpinCo, will be a new, independent publicly traded company. In addition, Entergy and Enexus intend to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, with equal ownership.
EquaGen L.L.C. has been selected as the name for the joint venture.
Progress achieved since the last quarter update includes:
Key board and leadership positions at Enexus and EquaGen continued to be filled
Regulatory proceedings continued to advance
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission
approved the transaction on July 28, 2008
In Vermont, testimony has been filed, the discovery process is complete and technical hearings begin today
In New York, the initial discovery period ordered by the New York Public Service Commission expired and the presiding Administrative Law Judges (ALJs) issued a ruling slightly extending the discovery process, followed within three weeks by initial comments addressing defined issues, and reply comments due two weeks thereafter
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission approved the transaction on June 12, 2008
In response to Securities and Exchange Commission comments issued June 9, 2008, an amended Form 10 will be filed in the near future
At the Internal Revenue Service, Entergy has completed all submittals and is awaiting a response to its request for a private letter ruling finding that the spin-off transaction qualifies for tax-free treatment for federal income tax purposes for both Entergy and its shareholders
Given receipt of critical NRC approval, the state regulatory approvals are now the critical path. Considering the ruling by the New York ALJs, Entergy now expects the spin completion to occur in the fourth quarter on a month end.
Additional information on the spin-off including proposed new business structure, leadership teams, business overviews, financial aspirations, and a transaction timeline including regulatory filing status are included in Appendix A of this release.
VI.
Appendices
Seven appendices are presented in this section as follows:
Appendix A includes information on Entergy's plan to separate the non-utility nuclear business from Entergy's regulated utility business through a tax-free spin-off of the non-utility nuclear business.
Appendix B includes earnings per share variance analysis and detail on special items that relate to the current quarter and year-to-date periods.
Appendix C provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
Appendix D provides financial metrics for both current and historical periods. In addition, historical financial and operating performance metrics are included for the trailing eight quarters.
Appendix E provides a summary of planned capital expenditures for the next three years.
Appendix F provides definitions of the operational performance measures and GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures that are used in this release.
Appendix G provides a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures used in this release.
 
Appendix A provides information on Entergy's planned spin-off of its non-utility nuclear business.
The announced spin-off of Entergy's non-utility nuclear business will establish a new independent, publicly traded company. Enexus Energy Corporation has been selected as the name of the new company. In addition, Entergy and Enexus intend to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, with equal ownership. EquaGen L.L.C. has been selected as the name for the joint venture. Below are transaction details and other information on Entergy, Enexus and EquaGen.
New Business Structure
Once the transaction is complete, Entergy Corporation's shareholders will own 100 percent of the common equity in both Entergy and Enexus. Enexus' business is expected to be comprised of the non-utility nuclear assets, including the Pilgrim Nuclear Station in Plymouth, Mass., the James A. FitzPatrick and Indian Point Energy Center plants in Oswego and Buchanan, N.Y., respectively, the Palisades plant in Covert, Mich., and the Vermont Yankee plant in Brattleboro, Vt., and a power marketing operation. Entergy's business will be comprised of the current six regulated utility operating subsidiaries, System Energy Resources, Inc., the related services subsidiaries System Fuels, Inc., Entergy Operations, Inc. and Entergy Services, Inc., and the remaining Entergy subsidiaries. The newly created joint venture, EquaGen, is expected to operate the nuclear assets owned by Enexus. EquaGen is also expected to offer nuclear services to third parties, including decommissioning, plant relicens ing and plant operations for Cooper Nuclear Station and others.
The joint venture operating structure for Enexus ensures that the core nuclear operations expertise currently in place at each of the non-utility nuclear plants will remain after the spin-off.  Entergy Nuclear Operations, Inc., the current NRC-licensed operator of the non-utility nuclear plants, is expected to be wholly-owned by EquaGen and will remain the operator of the plants after the separation.  Entergy Operations, Inc., the current NRC-licensed operator of Entergy's utility nuclear plants, will also remain in place as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Entergy and will continue to be the operator of the utility nuclear plants.  The decision to retain the existing operators for the nuclear stations reflects Entergy's commitment to maintaining safety, security and operational excellence.
Leadership Team
The Entergy Board of Directors has approved certain elements of the leadership structure and designated individuals who will fill key board and management roles. The EquaGen Board of Managers will be comprised of equal membership from both Entergy and Enexus. Those assuming new roles or additional responsibilities identified to date include:
Entergy:
Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer Mark Savoff; currently executive vice president of operations, Entergy
Enexus:
Board of Directors
Non-Executive Chairman Dr. Paul Murrill; former member of Entergy Board of Directors, professional engineer and private investor
Other members of Enexus Board of Directors:
VADM. George W. Davis USN (Ret.); former member of Entergy Board of Directors, retired Vice Admiral of the U.S. Navy and former Commander Naval Surface Force, Pacific
William Madison; former Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Administration - - Entergy Corporation
William A. Percy, II; Member of Entergy Board of Directors; will retire board membership prior to completion of the spin-off; Chairman and CEO of Greenville Compress Company
Richard J. Smith; CEO Enexus
Kyle D. Vann; former CEO Entergy-Koch, LP; consultant to Entergy Corporation and Texon, LP
Steven V. Wilkinson; member of Entergy Board of Directors; will hold dual board membership at Enexus and Entergy; retired audit partner of Arthur Andersen LLP
Leadership Team
Chief Executive Officer Richard Smith; currently president and chief operating officer, Entergy
Chief Operating Officer John R. McGaha; currently president of planning, development and oversight, Entergy Nuclear
Chief Financial Officer Dean Keller; former managing director - investment banking at Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and co-head of the North American Power Group
Enexus Leadship Team cont'd
General Counsel and Chief Legal Officer Steven J. Agresta; former group leader, Energy Group at Alston & Bird, LLP
Senior Vice President Administration and Corporate Support Carolyn Shanks; former President and CEO of Entergy Mississippi, Inc.
Vice President Power Marketing Marc Potkin; currently holds same position for Entergy Nuclear
Vice President Governmental & Regulatory Affairs Kenneth Theobalds; currently holds same position for Entergy Nuclear
Vice President Federal Governmental Affairs Jerald V. Halvorsen; currently holds same position for Entergy
EquaGen:
Chief Executive Officer and Chief Nuclear Officer Michael R. Kansler; currently president and chief nuclear officer, Entergy Nuclear
Chief Operating Officer John Herron; currently serves as senior vice president of nuclear operations, Entergy Nuclear
Senior Vice President Planning, Development & Oversight Donna Jacobs; currently holds same position at Entergy Nuclear
General Counsel and Chief Legal Officer Terrence Burke; currently associate general counsel, Entergy Nuclear
Vice President Finance Wanda Curry; currently Vice President and CFO, Nuclear Operations, Entergy
Vice President Human Resources and Administration Keith Fogleman; currently Vice President Human Resources, Entergy Nuclear
Vice President External Affairs & Communications Kelle Barfield; currently Director Nuclear Communications, Entergy
Executive management at Entergy that remains unchanged includes:
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer J. Wayne Leonard
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer Leo Denault
Group President Utility Operations Gary Taylor
Executive Vice President of External Affairs Curt Hebert
Executive Vice President and General Counsel Robert Sloan
Chief Nuclear Officer Michael Kansler
 
Brief Overview of Each Business
After completion of the business separation, Entergy will consist of the current six electric utility subsidiaries in four contiguous states with generating capacity of more than 22,000 megawatts and 15,000 miles of transmission lines. Entergy will be a customer service-focused electric and gas utility with a unique growth opportunity through its portfolio transformation strategy that benefits customers. The company will deliver electricity to 2.7 million customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas and will remain headquartered in New Orleans, LA.
Enexus is expected to own nearly 5,000 megawatts of nuclear generation, most of which is located in the northeastern United States. This location has some of the highest average regional power prices in the United States both today and expected into the future through at least 2020. Enexus will be uniquely positioned to provide to the region the only pure-play, emission-free nuclear generation. The company will be headquartered in Jackson, Miss.
EquaGen is expected to be owned 50 percent each by Entergy and Enexus, and expected to have operating responsibility for Enexus' nuclear fleet. The company will be headquartered in Jackson, Miss.
As a premier nuclear operator, the joint venture will have broad nuclear experience building and operating boiling and pressurized water reactor technologies. EquaGen is expected to be uniquely positioned to grow through offerings of nuclear operating expertise, as well as ancillary nuclear services to third parties, including plant decommissioning and relicensing.
Financial Aspirations
The companies will continue to aspire to deliver superior value to owners as measured by total shareholder return. The companies believe top-quartile shareholder returns are achieved by growing earnings, delivering returns at or above the risk-adjusted cost of capital, maintaining credit quality and flexibility, and deploying capital in a disciplined manner, whether for new investments, share repurchases, dividends or debt retirements.
Financial aspirations currently in place for Entergy today can be tailored to each of the businesses going forward. Financial aspirations through 2012 include the following:
Top-quartile total shareholder return:
Entergy: 6-8% annual earnings per share growth, a 70 to 75% dividend payout ratio target, and capacity for a new share repurchase program targeted at $2.5 billion, $0.5 billion of which has already been authorized by the Entergy Board of Directors, with the balance to be authorized and to commence following completion of spin-off
Enexus: $2 billion in earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization and interest and dividend income (EBITDA), a non-GAAP financial measure defined in Appendix F, for the existing non-utility nuclear fleet portfolio by 2012, assuming an average power price on open positions of roughly $95/MWh, generating cash flow for acquisitions and/or distributions through share repurchases in the range of $0.5 billion to $1 billion annually
Credit quality and flexibility to manage risk and act on opportunities:
Entergy: investment grade credit with a lower risk profile
Enexus: strong merchant credit, relative to others (subject to market terms and conditions, Enexus expects to execute roughly $4.5 billion of debt financing)
The amount of repurchases may vary as a result of material changes in business results or capital spending or new investment opportunities.
2012 aspirations can be considered in association with financial sensitivities as shown in Table 9. These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in aspiration resulting from changes in aspiration drivers. Estimated impacts shown in Table 9 are intended to be illustrative.
Transaction Timing
Given receipt of critical NRC approval, the state regulatory approvals are now the critical path. Considering the ruling by the New York Administrative Law Judges, Entergy now expects the spin completion to occur in the fourth quarter on a month end. Entergy expects the transactions to qualify for tax-free treatment for U.S. federal income tax purposes for both Entergy and its shareholders. The transactions are subject to various approvals, outlined in the following table. Final terms of the transactions and spin-off completion are subject to the subsequent approval of the Entergy Board of Directors
. Citigroup and Goldman Sachs are serving as Entergy's financial advisors in this process.
Appendices B-1 and B-2 provides details of second quarter and year-to-date 2008 vs. 2007 earnings variance analysis for "Utility, Parent & Other," "Competitive Businesses," and "Consolidated."
 
The increase is due primarily to sales growth with the year-to-date increase also due to regulatory actions.
The increase in the quarter and year-to-date periods is due primarily to higher revenues at Entergy Nuclear due to higher production from fewer outage days, the addition of Palisades, and higher pricing.
The decrease is due primarily to an impairment recorded on decommissioning trust fund investments at Entergy Nuclear.
The increase in the quarter is due primarily to nuclear spin-off related expenses recorded at Parent, increased charges for storm damages and loss reserves and higher employee benefits expense, while the year-to-date increase reflects these expenses and increased fossil outage spending primarily due to timing.
The increase in the quarter is due to deferring costs for only one refueling outage during second quarter 2008 versus deferrals for two refueling outages in 2007, as well as the full quarter inclusion of Palisades which was acquired April 11, 2007.
The increase is due primarily to the absence in the current period of the benefit of lower income taxes recorded in second quarter 2007 as a result of the resolution of tax audit issues.
Reflects accretion associated with Entergy's share repurchase program.
The increase reflects the amortization of expenses for more planned refueling outages compared to the year-to-date period in 2007, including Palisades' first refueling outage in fourth quarter 2007.
The increase in the year-to-date period is due to the inclusion of Palisades, as well as increased plant in service.
 
Appendix B-3 lists special items by business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons. Amounts are shown on both earnings per share and net income bases. Special items are those events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. Special items are included in as-reported earnings per share consistent with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but are excluded from operational earnings per share. As a result, operational earnings per share is considered a non-GAAP measure.
Appendix C provides a summary of selected regulatory cases and events that are pending.
 
Appendix D-1 provides comparative financial performance measures for the current quarter. Appendix D-2 provides historical financial performance measures and operating performance metrics for the trailing eight quarters. Financial performance measures in both tables include those calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), as well as those that are considered non-GAAP measures.
As-reported measures are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of earnings, including special items. Operational measures are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational earnings, which excludes the impact of special items. A reconciliation of operational earnings per share to as-reported earnings per share is provided in Appendix G-1.
Data for periods beginning 1Q07 reflect the re-consolidation of ENOI. Prior periods are not restated for this effect.
Data has been restated for the re-consolidation of ENOI which was the accounting adopted by Entergy in second quarter 2007. 4Q07 excludes the effect of the nuclear alignment special.
Excludes impact of major storm activity.
Restated to reflect MWh billed as the denominator in the calculation.
Restated data to reflect moving purchased power from production costs to non-fuel O&M. 4Q07 excludes the effect of the nuclear alignment special.
 
Appendix E: Planned Capital Expenditures
Entergy's capital plan from 2008 through 2010 anticipates $5.9 billion for investment, including $2.7 billion of maintenance capital. The remaining $3.2 billion is for specific investments such as the Utility's portfolio transformation strategy (i.e., Calcasieu and Ouachita acquisitions and Little Gypsy repowering), the steam generator replacement at Entergy Louisiana's Waterford 3 nuclear unit, environmental compliance spending, transmission upgrades, business function relocation, dry cask storage and nuclear license renewal projects, NYPA value sharing and other initiatives. A potentially significant item not included in these estimates is the cost associated with the proposed inter-connection between Entergy Texas and ERCOT (up to approximately $1 billion). In addition, only minimal amounts for potential new nuclear development at the Grand Gulf and River Bend sites at the Utility are included.
Appendix F provides definitions of certain operational performance measures, as well as GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, all of which are referenced in this release.
Financial measures defined in the below table include measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (GAAP), as well as non-GAAP measures. Non-GAAP measures are included in this release in order to provide metrics that remove the effect of less routine financial impacts from commonly used financial metrics.
Appendices G-1 and G-2 provide reconciliations of various non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in this release to their most comparable GAAP measure.
Data for periods beginning 1Q07 reflect the re-consolidation of ENOI. Prior periods are not restated for this effect.
 
Data for periods beginning 1Q07 reflect the re-consolidation of ENOI. Prior periods are not restated for this effect.
 
In this press release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in Entergy's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, (ii) Entergy's Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2008, and (iii) Entergy's other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and (b) the following transactional factors (in addition to others described elsewhere in this release and in subsequent securities filings): (i) risks inherent in the contemplated spin-off, joint venture and related transactions (including the level of debt to be incurred by Enexus Energy Corporation and the terms and costs related thereto), (ii) legislative and regulatory actions, and (iii) conditions of the capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements.  Entergy cannot provide any assu rances that the spin-off or any of the proposed transactions related thereto will be completed, nor can it give assurances as to the terms on which such transactions will be consummated. The transaction is subject to certain conditions precedent, including regulatory approvals and the final approval by the Board of Directors of Entergy.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Entergy 639 Loyola Avenue New Orleans, LA  70113
News Release
Exhibit 99.2
New Orleans, La. - Entergy Corporation (NYSE:ETR) today reported second quarter 2008 as-reported earnings of $271.0 million, or $1.37 per share, and operational earnings of $289.2 million, or $1.46 per share, compared with as-reported and operational earnings of $267.6 million, or $1.32 per share, for second quarter 2007.
*GAAP refers to United States generally accepted accounting principles.
Utility, Parent & Other had higher earnings due primarily to increased revenues.
Entergy Nuclear earnings increased as a result of additional production and higher power prices.
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business reported lower results due primarily to the absence of the benefit of lower income tax expense recorded in second quarter 2007.
"We remain committed and on track in our efforts to add value for our owners and to maintain high quality, affordable service for our customers in an increasingly challenging national economic environment," said . "We've achieved solid progress on a number of initiatives in the first half of 2008 and we expect the second half of 2008 to see the realization of a number of our goals and objectives for all of our stakeholders."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chairman and chief executive officer
Entergy Arkansas, Inc. received approval from the Arkansas Public Service Commission for the acquisition of the Ouachita plant, a 789-megawatt load-following combined-cycle gas turbine facility located near Monroe, La.
Entergy Nuclear received a Top Industry Practice Award (TIP) presented by the Nuclear Energy Institute (NEI). NEI TIP awards recognize nuclear energy operators for innovations that improve safety, economics or plant performance.
Entergy achieved progress in its effort to secure regulatory approvals for its proposed non-utility nuclear spin-off transaction with receipt of Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and Nuclear Regulatory Commission approvals for the spin-off transaction.
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10 a.m. CDT on Tuesday, July 29 with access by telephone, 719-457-2080, confirmation code 2740813. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergy's Web site at www.entergy.com. A replay of the teleconference will be available for seven days thereafter by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 2740813. The replay will also be available on Entergy's Web site at www.entergy.com.
In , Utility, Parent & Other had earnings of $123.4 million, or 62 cents per share, on an as-reported basis and earnings of $141.6 million, or 71 cents per share, on an operational basis, compared to $120.6 million, or 59 cents per share, in as-reported and operational earnings in second quarter 2007. Operational results for Utility, Parent & Other in second quarter 2008 reflect higher revenues from sales growth, partially offset by higher operation and maintenance expense. The higher expense primarily reflects increased charges for storm damages and loss reserves and higher employee benefits expense.
second quarter 2008
Megawatt-hour sales in the residential sector in second quarter 2008, on a weather-adjusted basis, showed a 2 percent increase compared to second quarter 2007. Commercial and governmental sales, after adjusting for weather, were up 3 percent compared to second quarter of last year. Industrial sales in the current quarter were down 1 percent compared to the same period one year ago.
The residential sales sector showed an increase quarter to quarter with sales growth across jurisdictions and the most significant increase on a percentage basis at Entergy New Orleans, Inc., where post-storm recovery continues. An increase in the number of customers also contributed to sales growth in the residential sector, as well as the commercial and governmental sectors. Sales in the industrial sector for second quarter 2008 decreased compared to the same quarter of 2007. High utilization in the refining and chemical segments continues to contribute to sales growth although gains in these segments were more than offset by weakness in pipelines and all segments associated with housing, including wood, pulp and paper. National economic weakness is affecting small and mid-sized industrial customers while efficiency improvements driven by high energy prices are producing declining sales in some areas.
Entergy Nuclear earned $143.6 million, or 73 cents per share, on as-reported and operational bases in second quarter 2008, compared to $108.7 million, or 54 cents per share, for as-reported and operational earnings in second quarter 2007. Entergy Nuclear's earnings increased as a result of additional production due to fewer outage days and from the Palisades plant acquired in second quarter 2007, as well as higher power prices. These items were partially offset by higher expense primarily associated with deferring costs for only one refueling outage during second quarter 2008 versus deferrals for two refueling outages in 2007 and the effect of including Palisades in the portfolio. An additional item partially offsetting the increase in results for the current quarter was an impairment recorded in second quarter 2008 in connection with decommissioning trust fund investments.
With respect to outage days, two planned refueling outages occurred in second quarter 2007 totaling 57 days while one planned refueling outage was completed in second quarter 2008 requiring 19 outage days. In addition, an extended unplanned outage of 28 days is reflected in second quarter 2007 results.
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business earned $4.0 million, or 2 cents per share, on both as-reported and operational bases in second quarter 2008 compared to earnings of $38.3 million, or 19 cents per share, on as-reported and operational bases in second quarter 2007. The decrease was due primarily to the absence in the current period of the benefit of lower income tax expense in second quarter 2007 resulting from the resolution of tax audit issues.
Entergy is reaffirming 2008 earnings guidance in the range of $6.50 to $6.90 per share on both as-reported and operational bases on a business-as-usual basis. Guidance for 2008 does not include a special item for expenses, a portion of which were incurred during the current quarter, anticipated in connection with the plan to pursue separation of Entergy's non-utility nuclear business and to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, both discussed below.
On Nov. 3, 2007, Entergy's Board of Directors approved a plan to pursue a separation of the non-utility nuclear business from Entergy's regulated utility business through a tax-free spin-off of the non-utility nuclear business. Enexus Energy Corporation, formerly referred to as SpinCo, will be a new, independent publicly traded company. In addition, Entergy and Enexus intend to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, with equal ownership.
EquaGen L.L.C. has been selected as the name for the joint venture.
Progress achieved since the last quarter update includes:
Key board and leadership positions at Enexus and EquaGen continued to be filled.
Regulatory proceedings continued to advance.
The Nuclear Regulatory Commission approved the transaction on July 28, 2008.
In Vermont, testimony has been filed, the discovery process is complete and technical hearings begin today.
In New York, the initial discovery period ordered by the New York Public Service Commission expired and the presiding Administrative Law Judges (ALJs) issued a ruling slightly extending the discovery process, followed within three weeks by initial comments addressing defined issues, with reply comments due two weeks thereafter.
The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission approved the transaction on June 12, 2008.
In response to Securities and Exchange Commission comments issued June 9, 2008, an amended Form 10 will be filed in the near future.
At the Internal Revenue Service, Entergy has completed all submittals and is awaiting a response to its request for a private letter ruling finding that the spin-off transaction qualifies for tax-free treatment for federal income tax purposes for both Entergy and its shareholders.
Given receipt of critical NRC approval, the state regulatory approvals are now the critical path. Considering the ruling by the New York ALJs, Entergy now expects the spin completion to occur in the fourth quarter on a month end.
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.7 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $11 billion and approximately 14,300 employees.
Additional information regarding Entergy's quarterly results of operations, regulatory proceedings, and other operations is available in Entergy's investor news release dated July 29, 2008, a copy of which has been filed today with the Securities Exchange Commission on Form 8-K and is available on Entergy's investor relations Web site at www.entergy.com/investor_relations.
In this press release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in Entergy's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, (ii) Entergy's Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2008, and (iii) Entergy's other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and (b) the following transactional factors (in addition to others described elsewhere in this release and in subsequent securities filings): (i) risks inherent in the contemplated spin-off, joint venture and related transactions (including the level of debt to be incurred by Enexus Energy Corporation and the terms and costs related thereto), (ii) legislative and regulatory actions, and (iii) conditions of the capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements.  Entergy cannot provide any assurances that the spin-off or any of the proposed transactions related thereto will be completed, nor can it give assurances as to the terms on which such transactions will be consummated. The transaction is subject to certain conditions precedent, including regulatory approvals and the final approval by the Board of Directors of Entergy.
 
Appendix A provides a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Customer count data reflects estimates of customers in the hardest hit areas affected by Hurricane Katrina. Issues associated with temporary housing and resumption of service at permanent dwellings render precise counts difficult at this time.

Exhibit 99.3
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Releases"), contain non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Releases and the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Certain non-GAAP measures in the Releases could differ from GAAP only in that the figure or ratio states or includes operational earnings per share. Operational earnings per share is presented for each of Entergy's major business segments as well as on a consolidated basis. Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the effect of "special items." Special items reflect the effect on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. In the second quarter 2008 covered by the Releases, Entergy reported a special item for expenses incurred in connection with the plan to pursue the separation of Entergy's non-utility nuclear business and to enter into a nuclear services joint venture.. In addition, other financial measures including return on average invested capital (ROIC), return on average common equity (ROE), and net margin - operational are included on both an operational and as-reported basis. In each case, the metrics defined as "operational" would exclude the effect of special items as defined above. Management believes financial metrics calculated using operational earnings provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of Entergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector. Entergy management frequently references these non-GAAP financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
Other non-GAAP measures, total gross liquidity, net debt to net capital ratio, and net debt ratio including off-balance sheet liabilities are measures Entergy uses internally for management and board discussions, and cash budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business. Entergy believes the above data provides useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial flexibility, and assists investors in comparing the company's cash availability to the cash availability of others in the energy sector.
Another non-GAAP measure presented in the Releases is EBITDA. EBITDA is a non-GAAP measurement Entergy has used to gauge Enexus' (formerly referred to as SpinCo) future operating performance. Entergy defines EBITDA as net earnings before the effect of interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. EBITDA is provided as a measure of Enexus' future performance and debt-service capacity that may be useful to securities analysis, investors and others. EBITDA is not, however, a measure of financial performance under GAAP. Due to the forward-looking nature of this non-GAAP measure, information to reconcile EBITDA to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is not available at this time. Moreover, EBITDA is not calculated identically by all companies.
The non-GAAP financial measures and other reported adjusted items in Entergy's Releases are used in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  These non-GAAP financial measures should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.  These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  Investors are strongly encouraged to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.  Non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized; therefore, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names.


