FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20090804082135.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
 
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
On August 4, 2009, Entergy Corporation issued two public announcements, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto (the Earnings Releases) and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the second quarter 2009.  The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
On August 4, 2009, Entergy Corporation issued the Earnings Releases, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the second quarter 2009.  The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01.
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Entergy Corporation
 
 
 
 
By:
/s/ Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
Senior Vice President and
Chief Accounting Officer
 
 
Dated: August 4, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
INVESTOR NEWS
August 4, 2009
NEW ORLEANS  Entergy Corporation reported second quarter 2009 earnings of $1.14 per share on an as-reported basis and $1.23 per share on an operational basis, as shown in Table 1 below.  A more detailed discussion of quarterly results begins on page 2 of this release.
Operational Earnings Highlights for Second Quarter 2009
 
While financial and commodity markets present near-term challenges, we remain committed to executing on the opportunities we have at hand and creating new ones consistent with the opportunities of a changed economic climate, said .  At the same time, we are very attentive to managing risks with uncertainties around the economy, markets, pending legislation and new technologies.
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergys chairman and chief executive officer
 
Entergys business highlights include the following:
 
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10:00 a.m. CDT on Tuesday, August 4, 2009, with access by telephone, 719-457-2080, confirmation code 4219567.  The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergys Web site at .  A replay of the teleconference will be available for seven days thereafter by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 4219567.  The replay will also be available on Entergys Web site at .
www.entergy.com
www.entergy.com
Consolidated Earnings
provides a comparative summary of consolidated earnings per share for second quarter 2009 versus 2008, including a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.  Utility, Parent & Others operational earnings were modestly lower due to lower net revenue and higher expenses that offset the benefit of lower income tax expense.  The higher as-reported results for Utility, Parent & Other reflect a reduction in the current quarter of the special item for outside services expenses for the spin-off.  Entergy Nuclears earnings decreased as a result of lower revenue due to lower production resulting from additional planned refueling and unplanned outage days and a significant impairment on decommissioning trust fund investments.  As-reported results for Entergy Nuclear were further reduced by the special item for spin-off dis-synergies.  Entergys Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business reported improved earnings primarily as a result of lower income tax expense during the quarter.
Table 2
Detailed earnings variance analysis is included in Appendix B-1 and Appendix B-2 to this release.  In addition, Appendix B-3 provides details of special items shown in Table 2 above.
Consolidated Net Cash Flow Provided by Operating Activities
Entergys net cash flow provided by operating activities in second quarter 2009 was $642 million compared to $465 million in second quarter 2008.  The increase was due primarily to:
 
 
Offsets include:
 
Table 3 provides the components of net cash flow provided by operating activities contributed by each business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons.
In second quarter 2009, Utility, Parent & Others as-reported earnings were $0.68 per share compared to $0.62 per share in second quarter 2008.  On an operational basis, second quarter 2009 earnings for Utility, Parent & Other were $0.69 per share versus $0.71 per share in the same quarter last year.  Operational results for Utility, Parent & Other in second quarter 2009 reflect lower net revenue driven primarily by a regulatory charge associated with a May 2009 Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) order.  Higher expenses also contributed to lower results in the current quarter.  Partially offsetting these items were benefits from lower income tax expense.
Electricity usage, in gigawatt-hour sales by customer segment, is included in Table 4.  Current quarter sales reflect the following:
 
The weak economy affected customer usage across all customer segments, most notably in the industrial sector.  Industrial sales in the second quarter 2009 for large customers were led by weaknesses in chemicals, primary metals and refining.  Small and mid-sized industrial customers also continue to be negatively affected by overseas competition.  Excluding the regulatory charge noted above, net revenue increased modestly in part due to the fact that a significant portion of the industrial customer bill is based on a fixed charge basis that does not vary linearly with volume changes.  Also, net revenue included contributions from the warmer-than-normal weather experienced at the end of the second quarter 2009 primarily reflected in unbilled sales.
Table 4 provides a comparative summary of the Utilitys operational performance measures.
Appendix
C
provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
 
Entergys competitive businesses include Entergy Nuclear and Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets.
Entergy Nuclear
Entergy Nuclear earned $0.40 per share on an as-reported basis and $0.48 per share on an operational basis in second quarter 2009, compared to $0.73 per share on as-reported and operational bases in second quarter 2008.  Entergy Nuclears earnings decreased as a result of a decline in revenue from lower generation due to additional refueling and unplanned outage days in the current quarter and the scheduled reduction in revenue amortization for the Palisades below-market Power Purchase Agreement.  Lower operation and maintenance expense during the quarter partially offset lower revenue.  In addition, Entergy Nuclears second quarter 2009 earnings reflect a significant impairment on decommissioning trust investments, exceeding the amount recorded in the same period last year.  Finally, as-reported results were further reduced by the special item for spin-off dis-synergies.
Table 5 provides a comparative summary of Entergy Nuclears operational performance measures.
Entergy Nuclears sold forward position is 87 percent, 81 percent, and 54 percent of planned generation at average prices per megawatt-hour of $62, $58 and $56, for the second half of 2009, 2010, and 2011, respectively.  Table 6 provides capacity and generation sold forward projections for Entergy Nuclear.
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Entergys Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets second quarter as-reported and operational earnings were $0.06 per share in 2009 compared to $0.02 per share a year ago.  Business results improved primarily due to lower income tax expense.
Earnings Guidance
As a result of financial market conditions resulting in recognition of additional decommissioning trust impairments, and further decline in power prices for Entergy Nuclears open position, Entergy revised its 2009 as-reported earnings guidance to a range of $6.00 to $6.60 per share.  The revised as-reported estimate incorporates year-to-date spin-off expenses for outside services, in addition to projected dis-synergies associated with the spin-off of Entergys non-utility nuclear business and plans to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, both discussed below and in Appendix A.  2009 operational earnings guidance was revised to a range of $6.20 to $6.80 per share.  Entergy had previously indicated that should the current economic climate and power prices on Entergy Nuclears open position persist for the balance of 2009, earnings could approach the lower end of the then-guidance ranges of $6.56 to $7.16 per share on an as-reported basis and $6.70 to $7.30 per share on an operational basis.  Year-over-year changes are shown as point estimates and are applied to 2008 actual results to compute the 2009 guidance midpoint.  Drivers for the revised 2009 operational guidance range are listed separately.  Because there is a range of possible outcomes associated with each earnings driver, a range is applied to the calculated guidance midpoints to produce Entergys guidance ranges for as-reported and operational earnings.  2009 earnings guidance is detailed in Table 7 below.
Key assumptions supporting 2009 earnings guidance are as follows:
Utility, Parent & Other
Entergy Nuclear
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Share Repurchase Program
Effective Income Tax Rate
Revised 2009 Guidance Range
 
Earnings guidance for 2009 should be considered in association with earnings sensitivities as shown in Table 8. These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in operational earnings resulting from changes in various revenue and expense drivers.  Utility sales are expected to be the most significant variable for 2009 results for Utility, Parent & Other.  At Entergy Nuclear, energy prices are expected to be the most significant driver of results in 2009.  Estimated annual impacts shown in Table 8 are intended to be indicative rather than precise guidance.
Liquidity
At the end of the second quarter, Entergy had $1.3 billion of cash and cash equivalents on hand on a consolidated basis.  Entergy also has additional financing authority, subject to debt covenants, including undrawn revolving credit facility capacity of $1.6 billion at the end of the second quarter.  Entergy routinely tests the adequacy of its liquidity under various stress scenarios and believes its current liquidity position affords the desired level of financial flexibility.  Entergy Corporations revolving credit facility requires it to maintain a consolidated debt ratio of 65 percent or less of its total capitalization.  Utility company credit facilities also have similar covenants.
For 2009, Entergy projected consolidated net liquidity sources of approximately $2.9 billion taking into consideration its liquidity position at December 31, 2008 and other projected sources and uses of liquidity generated in 2009.  Primary sources included projected undrawn revolving credit facility capacity, operating cash flow, and planned financing/refinancing activity, primarily for Entergy Texas and other Utility Operating Companies, as well as the refinancing of $500 million of Entergy Corporation Senior Notes.  Uses focused on meeting debt maturities in the fourth quarter and other voluntary debt repayment (primarily pursuant to Entergy Texas Debt Assumption Agreement and for revolving credit facilities), Equity Units conversion of $500 million debt to equity, as well as capital expenditures, dividend payments and share repurchases.
During the second quarter, Entergy Mississippi sold $150 million of first mortgage bonds.  Also in May, Entergy Texas successfully completed another bond offering, increasing its year-to-date bond financing total to $650 million.  Entergy expects there will be similar windows of opportunity to access the credit markets in the remainder of 2009.  In addition, higher than projected storm expenditures for the January ice storm in Arkansas and hurricanes Gustav and Ike will result in lower cash flow.  Finally, the revised 2009 earnings guidance includes some drivers that are expected to further reduce operating cash flow.  After taking these factors into consideration, Entergy continues to see its net liquidity sources above $2 billion, affording the desired level of financial flexibility on a consolidated basis from a liquidity perspective.
Table 9 provides a summary of liquidity sources and uses from December 31, 2008 through December 31, 2009.
(e) Sources and uses are reported on a business as usual basis and do not incorporate potential spin-off debt transactions.
(f) Assumes receipt of storm securitization proceeds for Entergy Texas and cash tax payments lower than statutory rate.
Debt Maturities
Debt maturities in 2009 include just over $500 million in the fourth quarter.   Entergy Arkansas $88 million credit facility agreement is effective through April 2010.  Revolving credit facilities for Entergy Mississippi totaling $60 million mature in May 2010.  The remaining credit facilities expire in 2012.
Table 10 provides details on Entergys debt maturities.
On November 3, 2007, Entergys Board of Directors approved a plan to pursue a separation of the non-utility nuclear business from Entergys regulated utility business through a tax-free spin-off of the non-utility nuclear business.  Enexus Energy Corporation will be a new, independent publicly traded company.  In addition, Entergy and Enexus intend to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, with equal ownership.  EquaGen LLC has been selected as the name for the joint venture.
Progress achieved since the last quarter update and/or current status include:
Enexus intends to file a petition in August with the NYPSC addressing amendments to the reorganization proposal to further enhance Enexus already robust financial strength and flexibility, including:
The state regulatory decisions and financing continue as the critical path items.  The rolling readiness posture enables Entergy to execute the spin-off following receipt of regulatory approvals and once the timing is right to access the credit markets, both on acceptable terms.
Additional information on the spin-off including proposed new business structure, leadership teams, business overviews, financial aspirations, and a transaction timeline including regulatory filing status are included in Appendix A of this release.
Seven appendices are presented in this section as follows:
 
Appendix A provides information on Entergys planned spin-off of its non-utility nuclear business.
The announced spin-off of Entergys non-utility nuclear business will establish a new independent, publicly traded company.  Enexus Energy Corporation has been selected as the name of the new company.  In addition, Entergy and Enexus intend to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, with equal ownership.  EquaGen LLC has been selected as the name for the joint venture.  Below are transaction details, including enhancements to the transaction proposed by Entergy to be filed in an amended petition with the New York Public Service Commission, and other information on Entergy, Enexus and EquaGen.
New Business Structure
Upon completion of the spin-off transaction, Entergy Corporations shareholders will own 100 percent of the common equity of Entergy and receive a distribution of approximately 80 percent of Enexus common equity.  Entergy will transfer the remaining Enexus common equity to a trust.  Within a fixed period of time after the spin-off, Entergy is expected to exchange the Enexus shares retained in the trust for Entergy shares.  This exchange is commonly referred to in a tax-free reorganization as a split-off.  Enexus shares not ultimately exchanged, if any, will be distributed to Entergy shareholders.  Enexus business is expected to be comprised of the non-utility nuclear assets, including the Pilgrim Nuclear Station in Plymouth, Mass., the James A. FitzPatrick and Indian Point Energy Center plants in Oswego and Buchanan, N.Y., respectively, the Palisades plant in Covert, Mich., and the Vermont Yankee plant in Brattleboro, Vt., and a power marketing operation.  Entergys business will be comprised of the current six regulated utility operating subsidiaries, System Energy Resources, Inc., the related services subsidiaries System Fuels, Inc., Entergy Operations, Inc. and Entergy Services, Inc., and the remaining Entergy subsidiaries.  The newly created joint venture, EquaGen, is expected to operate the nuclear assets owned by Enexus.  EquaGen is also expected to offer nuclear services to third parties, including decommissioning, plant relicensing and plant operations for others.
The joint venture operating structure ensures that the core nuclear operations expertise currently in place at each of the non-utility nuclear plants will remain for Enexus after the spin-off.  Entergy Nuclear Operations, Inc., the current NRC-licensed operator of the non-utility nuclear plants, is expected to be wholly-owned by EquaGen and will remain the operator of the plants after the separation.  Entergy Operations, Inc., the current NRC-licensed operator of Entergys utility nuclear plants, will also remain in place as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Entergy and will continue to be the operator of the utility nuclear plants.  The decision to retain the existing operators for the nuclear stations reflects Entergys commitment to maintaining safety, security and operational excellence.
Leadership Team
The Entergy Board of Directors has approved certain elements of the leadership structure and designated individuals who will fill key board and management roles. The EquaGen Board of Managers will be comprised of equal membership from both Entergy and Enexus.
Brief Overview of Each Business
After completion of the business separation, Entergy will consist of the current six electric utility subsidiaries in four contiguous states with generating capacity of more than 22,000 megawatts and 15,000 miles of transmission lines.  Entergy will be a customer service-focused electric and gas utility with a unique growth opportunity through its portfolio transformation strategy that benefits customers.  The company will deliver electricity to 2.7 million customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas and will remain headquartered in New Orleans, LA.
Enexus is expected to own nearly 5,000 megawatts of nuclear generation, most of which is located in the northeastern United States.  This location has some of the highest average regional power prices in the United States both today and expected into the future through at least 2020.  The company will be headquartered in Jackson, MS.
EquaGen is expected to be owned 50 percent each by Entergy and Enexus, and expected to have operating responsibility for Enexus nuclear fleet.  As a premier nuclear operator, the joint venture will have broad nuclear experience building and operating boiling and pressurized water reactor technologies.  EquaGen is expected to be uniquely positioned to grow through offerings of nuclear operating expertise, as well as ancillary nuclear services to third parties, including plant decommissioning and relicensing.  The company will be headquartered in Jackson, MS.
Financial Aspirations
The companies will continue to aspire to deliver superior value to owners as measured by total shareholder return.  The companies believe top-quartile shareholder returns are achieved by growing earnings, delivering returns at or above the risk-adjusted cost of capital, maintaining credit quality and flexibility, and deploying capital in a disciplined manner, whether for new investments, share repurchases, dividends or debt retirements.
Proposed amendments in the spin-off transaction structure as described above are intended to further enhance the already robust financial flexibility and strength of Enexus, while at the same time providing Entergy an opportunity to achieve its financial aspirations.  Financial aspirations through 2012 include the following:
Top-quartile total shareholder return:
 
Credit quality and flexibility to manage risk and act on opportunities:
 
The amount of repurchases may vary as a result of material changes in business results or capital spending or new investment opportunities.  Entergy and Enexus further acknowledge that limitations presented by the current depressed power prices in markets where Enexus sells power create implications for near-term financial results.  Should these conditions extend for a prolonged period, financial aspirations would likely be affected. At the same time, current market conditions also create potential capital deployment opportunities for companies with ample liquidity which in turn creates opportunity to grow EBITDA.
2012 aspirations can be considered in association with financial sensitivities as shown in Table 11.  These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in aspiration resulting from changes in aspiration drivers.  Estimated impacts shown in Table 11 are intended to be illustrative.
Transaction Timing
 
The state regulatory decisions and financing continue as the critical path items.  Due to a longer regulatory approval process than originally expected, Entergy and Enexus remain in a rolling readiness posture.  This strategy enables Entergy to execute the spin-off following receipt of regulatory approvals and once the timing is right to access the credit markets, both on acceptable terms.  The transaction is expected to close on a month end.  The transactions are subject to various approvals, outlined in the following table.  Final terms of the transactions and spin-off completion are subject to the subsequent approval of the Entergy Board of Directors.  Citigroup and Goldman Sachs are serving as Entergys financial advisors in this process.
   
Appendix B-1 and Appendix B-2 provide details of second quarter and year-to-date 2009 vs. 2008 earnings variance analysis for Utility, Parent & Other, Competitive Businesses, and Consolidated.
Appendix B-3 lists special items by business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons.  Amounts are shown on both earnings per share and net income bases.  Special items are those events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses.  Special items are included in as-reported earnings per share consistent with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but are excluded from operational earnings per share.  As a result, operational earnings per share is considered a non-GAAP measure.
 
 
 
-1 provides comparative financial performance measures for the current quarter.  -2 provides historical financial performance measures and operating performance metrics for the trailing eight quarters. Financial performance measures in both tables include those calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), as well as those that are considered non-GAAP measures.
Appendix
D
Appendix
D
As-reported measures are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of earnings, including special items.  Operational measures are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational earnings, which excludes the impact of special items.  A reconciliation of operational measures to as-reported measures is provided .
in
Appendix G
           
Entergys capital plan from 2009 through 2011 anticipates $6.5 billion for investment, including $2.5 billion of maintenance capital, as shown in Appendix E. The remaining $4.0 billion is for specific investments such as the balance of Utility storm capital spending and the Utilitys portfolio transformation strategy, the steam generator replacement at Entergy Louisianas Waterford 3 nuclear unit, compliance spending (i.e., spending for the installation of scrubbers and low NOx burners at Entergy Arkansas White Bluff coal plant), transmission upgrades, dry cask storage, nuclear license renewal efforts, NYPA value sharing, the Indian Point Independent Safety Evaluation, and other initiatives.
environmental
The three year capital plan includes $1.1 billion for the Little Gypsy repowering project.  In May 2009, the Louisiana Public Service Commission issued an order accepting Entergy Louisianas recommendation to place the Little Gypsy project in long-term suspension (three years or more).  Spending through December 31, 2008 was reported at $135 million.  $300 million is the total spending in the event Little Gypsy is canceled.  In addition, the Utility incurred additional storm spending for the January 2009 Arkansas ice storm ranging from $55 to $60 million.
projected
Appendix F provides definitions of certain operational performance measures, as well as GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, all of which are referenced in this release.
Financial measures defined in the below table include measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (GAAP), as well as non-GAAP measures.  Non-GAAP measures are included in this release in order to provide metrics that remove the effect of less routine financial impacts from commonly used financial metrics.
-1 and -2 provide reconciliations of various non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in this release to their most comparable GAAP measure.
Appendix G
Appendix G
**********************************************************************************************************************
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in (i) Entergys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, (ii) Entergys Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, and (iii) Entergys other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (b) the uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike and the January 2009 Arkansas ice storm and recovery of costs associated with restoration, and (c) the following transactional factors (in addition to others described elsewhere in this news release and in subsequent securities filings): (i) risks inherent in the contemplated spin-off, joint venture and related transactions (including the level of debt to be incurred by Enexus Energy Corporation and the terms and costs related thereto), (ii) legislative and regulatory actions, and (iii) conditions of the capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements.  Entergy cannot provide any assurances that the spin-off or any of the proposed transactions related thereto will be completed, nor can it give assurances as to the terms on which such transactions will be consummated.  The transaction is subject to certain conditions precedent, including regulatory approvals and the final approval by the Board of Directors of Entergy.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
New Orleans, La.  Entergy Corporation (NYSE:ETR) today reported second quarter 2009 as-reported earnings of $226.8 million, or $1.14 per share, compared with $271.0 million, or $1.37 per share, for second quarter 2008. On an operational basis, Entergys second quarter 2009 earnings were $244.0 million, or $1.23 per share, compared with $289.2 million, or $1.46 per share, in second quarter 2008.
 
 
*GAAP refers to United States generally accepted accounting principles.
 
While financial and commodity markets present near-term challenges, we remain committed to executing on the opportunities we have at hand and creating new ones consistent with the opportunities of a changed economic climate, said . At the same time, we are very attentive to managing risks with uncertainties around the economy, markets, pending legislation and new technologies.
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergys chairman and chief executive officer
 
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10:00 a.m. CDT on Tuesday, Aug. 4, 2009, with access by telephone, 719-457-2080, confirmation code 4219567. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergys Web site at www.entergy.com. A replay of the teleconference will be available for seven days thereafter by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 4219567. The replay will also be available on Entergys Web site at www.entergy.com.
 
In second quarter 2009, Utility, Parent & Other had as-reported earnings of $134.7 million, or 68 cents per share, compared to $123.4 million, or 62 cents per share, in second quarter 2008. On an operational basis, second quarter 2009 earnings were $136.8 million, or 69 cents per share, compared to $141.6 million, or 71 cents per share, in second quarter 2008. Operational results for Utility, Parent & Other in second quarter 2009 reflect lower net revenue driven primarily by a regulatory charge associated with a May 2009 Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) order. Higher expenses also contributed to lower results in the current quarter. Partially offsetting these items were benefits from lower income tax expense.
 
Residential sales in second quarter 2009, on a weather-adjusted basis, were nearly flat, with only a 0.2 percent decrease compared to second quarter 2008. Commercial and governmental sales, on a weather-adjusted basis, decreased 1.0 percent year over year. Industrial sales in the second quarter were down 9.7 percent compared to the same quarter of 2008.
 
The weak economy affected customer usage across all customer segments, most notably in the industrial sector. Industrial sales in the second quarter 2009 for large customers were led by weaknesses in chemicals, primary metals and refining. Small and mid-sized industrial customers also continue to be negatively affected by overseas competition. Excluding the regulatory charge noted above, net revenue increased modestly in part due to the fact that a significant portion of the industrial customer bill is based on a fixed charge basis that does not vary linearly with volume changes. Also, net revenue included contributions from the warmer-than-normal weather experienced at the end of the second quarter 2009 primarily reflected in unbilled sales.
 
Entergy Nuclear earned $80.2 million, or 40 cents per share, on an as-reported basis and $95.3 million, or 48 cents per share, on an operational basis in second quarter 2009, compared to $143.6 million, or 73 cents per share, on as-reported and operational bases in second quarter 2008. Entergy Nuclears earnings decreased as a result of a decline in revenue from lower generation due to additional refueling and unplanned outage days in the current quarter and the scheduled reduction in revenue amortization for the Palisades below-market Power Purchase Agreement. Lower operation and maintenance expense during the quarter partially offset lower revenue. In addition, Entergy Nuclears second quarter 2009 earnings reflect a significant impairment on decommissioning trust investments, exceeding the amount recorded in the same period last year. Finally, as-reported results were further reduced by the special item for spin-off dis-synergies.
 
Entergys Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business earned $11.9 million, or six cents per share, on both as-reported and operational bases in second quarter 2009 compared to $4.0 million, or two cents per share, a year ago. Business results improved primarily due to lower income tax expense.
 
As a result of financial market conditions resulting in recognition of additional decommissioning trust impairments, and further decline in power prices for Entergy Nuclears open position, Entergy revised its 2009 as-reported earnings guidance to a range of $6.00 to $6.60 per share. The revised as-reported estimate incorporates year-to-date spin-off expenses for outside services, in addition to projected dis-synergies associated with the spin-off of Entergys non-utility nuclear business and plans to enter into a nuclear services joint venture. 2009 operational earnings guidance was revised to a range of $6.20 to $6.80 per share. Entergy had previously indicated that should the current economic climate and power prices on Entergy Nuclears open position persist for the balance of 2009, earnings could approach the lower end of the then-guidance ranges of $6.56 to $7.16 per share on an as-reported basis and $6.70 to $7.30 per share on an operational basis.
 
On Nov. 3, 2007, Entergys Board of Directors approved a plan to pursue a separation of the non-utility nuclear business from Entergys regulated utility business through a tax-free spin-off of the non-utility nuclear business. Enexus Energy Corporation will be a new, independent publicly traded company. In addition, Entergy and Enexus intend to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, with equal ownership. EquaGen LLC has been selected as the name for the joint venture.
 
Progress achieved since the last quarter update and/or current status includes:
 
 
Enexus intends to file a petition in August with the NYPSC addressing amendments to the reorganization proposal to further enhance Enexus already robust financial strength and flexibility, including:
 
 
The state regulatory decisions and financing continue as the critical path items. The rolling readiness posture enables Entergy to execute the spin-off following receipt of regulatory approvals and once the timing is right to access the credit markets, both on acceptable terms.
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.7 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $13 billion and approximately 14,700 employees.
 
Additional information regarding Entergys quarterly results of operations, regulatory proceedings, and other operations is available in Entergys investor news release dated Aug. 4, 2009, a copy of which has been filed today with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 8-K and is available on Entergys investor relations Web site at .
www.entergy.com/investor_relations
 
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in (i) Entergys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, (ii) Entergys Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, and (iii) Entergys other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (b) the uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike and the January 2009 Arkansas ice storm and recovery of costs associated with restoration, and (c) the following transactional factors (in addition to others described elsewhere in this news release and in subsequent securities filings): (i) risks inherent in the contemplated spin-off, joint venture and related transactions (including the level of debt to be incurred by Enexus Energy Corporation and the terms and costs related thereto), (ii) legislative and regulatory actions, and (iii) conditions of the capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements.  Entergy cannot provide any assurances that the spin-off or any of the proposed transactions related thereto will be completed, nor can it give assurances as to the terms on which such transactions will be consummated.  The transaction is subject to certain conditions precedent, including regulatory approvals and the final approval by the Board of Directors of Entergy.
Appendix A provides a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.

Exhibit 99.3
 
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Releases"), contain non-GAAP financial measures.  Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP.  Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Releases and the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
Certain non-GAAP measures in the Releases could differ from GAAP only in that the figure or ratio states or includes operational earnings per share.  Operational earnings per share is presented for each of Entergy's major business segments as well as on a consolidated basis.  Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the effect of "special items."  Special items reflect the effect on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses.  In the periods covered by the Releases, Entergy reported special items for expenses and dis-synergies incurred in connection with the plan to pursue the separation of Entergy's non-utility nuclear business and to enter into a nuclear services joint venture.  In addition, other financial measures including return on average invested capital (ROIC), return on average common equity (ROE), and net margin - operational are included on both an operational and as-reported basis.  In each case, the metrics defined as "operational" would exclude the effect of special items as defined above.  Management believes financial metrics calculated using operational earnings provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of Entergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector.  Entergy management frequently references these non-GAAP financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
 
Other non-GAAP measures, total gross liquidity, net debt to net capital ratio, and net debt ratio including off-balance sheet liabilities are measures Entergy uses internally for management and board discussions, and cash budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business.  Entergy believes the above data provides useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial flexibility, and assists investors in comparing the company's cash availability to the cash availability of others in the energy sector.
 
Another non-GAAP measure presented in the Releases is EBITDA.  EBITDA is a non-GAAP measurement Entergy has used to gauge Enexus' future operating performance.  Entergy defines EBITDA as net earnings before the effect of interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization.  EBITDA is provided as a measure of Enexus' future performance and debt-service capacity that may be useful to securities analysis, investors and others.  EBITDA is not, however, a measure of financial performance under GAAP.  Due to the forward-looking nature of this non-GAAP measure, information to reconcile EBITDA to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is not available at this time.  Moreover, EBITDA is not calculated identically by all companies.
 
The non-GAAP financial measures and other reported adjusted items in Entergy's Releases are used in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  These non-GAAP financial measures should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.  These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  Investors are strongly encouraged to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.  Non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized; therefore, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names.
 


