FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20090504073314.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On May 4, 2009, Entergy Corporation issued two public announcements, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto (the "Earnings Releases") and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the first quarter 2009. The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
On May 4, 2009, Entergy Corporation issued the Earnings Releases, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the first quarter 2009. The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Entergy Corporation
 
By: Theodore H. Bunting, Jr. Senior Vice President and Chief Accounting Officer Dated: May 4, 2009
/s/ Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.

INVESTOR NEWS
Exhibit 99.1
May 4, 2009
NEW ORLEANS - Entergy Corporation reported first quarter 2009 earnings of $1.20 per share on an as-reported basis and $1.29 per share on an operational basis, as shown in Table 1 below. A more detailed discussion of quarterly results begins on page 2 of this release.
Operational Earnings Highlights for First Quarter 2009
Utility, Parent & Other results were lower due to higher other taxes and depreciation and amortization expenses.
Entergy Nuclear earnings decreased as a result of lower production due to additional planned refueling outage days and impairments recorded on decommissioning trust fund investments.
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets results were essentially flat.
these times, we will be relentless in seeking value and managing risk, and we are prepared to seize opportunities that add value for our stakeholders."
"In the current uncertain climate, we have focused significant effort on positioning the company for long-term success while weathering the current economic storm," said . "While we cannot predict what will come next in
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chairman and chief executive officer
Entergy's business highlights include the following:
Leonard was named one of the nation's "Best CEOs" by magazine, his sixth consecutive year for achieving the honor.
Institutional Investor
Entergy received its 12th and 13th industry awards for restoring power after major storms and is the only company recognized 11 years in a row by Edison Electric Institute for its storm restoration work.
Indian Point 3 completed 678 continuous days of operation as it entered its refueling outage in March. This run marked an operating record for Westinghouse Pressurized Water Reactors which account for nearly one-fourth of the commercial nuclear power reactors in the U.S.
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10 a.m. CDT on Monday, May 4, 2009, with access by telephone, 719-457-2080, confirmation code 8064872. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergy's Web site at
www.entergy.com
. A replay of the teleconference will be available for seven days thereafter by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 8064872. The replay will also be available on Entergy's Web site at
www.entergy.com
.
I.
Consolidated Results
Consolidated Earnings
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business reported results essentially equal to those of first quarter 2008.
Table 2 provides a comparative summary of consolidated earnings per share for first quarter 2009 versus 2008, including a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.
Utility, Parent & Other had lower earnings due to higher other taxes and depreciation and amortization expenses. Entergy Nuclear's earnings decreased as a result of lower revenue due to lower production resulting from additional planned refueling outage days and impairments on decommissioning trust fund investments.
Detailed earnings variance analysis is included in appendix B-1 to this release. In addition, appendix B-2 provides details of special items shown in Table 2 above.
Consolidated Net Cash Flow Provided by Operating Activities
Entergy's net cash flow provided by operating activities in first quarter 2009 was $375 million compared to $448 million in first quarter 2008. The decrease was due primarily to:
net effect of hurricanes Gustav and Ike and a major Arkansas ice storm which reduced operating cash flow at the Utility by $314 million as a result of costs associated with system repairs
higher working capital requirements of $113 million at Utility
higher expenses associated with non-utility nuclear spin-off costs and dis-synergies totaling $23 million
Offsets include:
an increased deferred fuel contribution at the Utility in the current quarter totaling $471 million
Table 3 provides the components of net cash flow provided by operating activities contributed by each business with quarter-to-quarter comparisons.
II.
Utility, Parent & Other Results
In 9, Utility, Parent & Other had earnings of $0.32 per share on an as-reported basis and $0.37 per share on an operational basis, compared to earnings of $0.48 per share on as-reported and operational bases in first quarter 2008. Operational results for Utility, Parent & Other in first quarter 2009 reflect higher taxes other than income taxes due to the absence of the benefit associated with favorable resolution of tax audit issues that was included in results in first quarter 2008. Higher depreciation and amortization expense also contributed to lower results in the current quarter.
first quarter 200
Electricity usage, in gigawatt-hour sales by customer segment, is included in Table 4. Current quarter sales reflect the following:
Residential sales in first quarter 2009, on a weather-adjusted basis, showed a 1.8 percent decrease compared to first quarter 2008, which was also a leap-year.
Commercial and governmental sales, on a weather-adjusted basis, decreased 1.2 percent year over year.
Industrial sales in the first quarter were down 13.2 percent compared to the same quarter of 2008.
The residential and commercial and governmental sales sectors reflected a decrease quarter to quarter as the continued weakening in the economy affected customer usage across these sectors. Sales in the industrial sector for first quarter 2009decreased significantly compared to the same quarter of 2008 primarily due to a weak economic climate that worsened in the current period. Small and mid-sized industrial customers are also being negatively affected by overseas competition. Despite the lower sales volume, net revenue at the Utility was essentially flat, in part due to the fact that a significant portion of the industrial customer bill is based on a fixed charge basis that does not vary linearly with volume changes.
Table 4 provides a comparative summary of the Utility's operational performance measures.
Appendix C provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
III.
Competitive Businesses Results
Entergy's competitive businesses include Entergy Nuclear and Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets.
Entergy Nuclear
Entergy Nuclear earned $0.91 per share on an as-reported basis and $0.95 per share on an operational basis in first quarter 2009, compared to $1.12 per share on as-reported and operational bases in first quarter 2008. Entergy Nuclear's earnings decreased primarily as a result of lower revenue due to lower generation resulting from additional planned refueling outage days and lower . Impairments recorded in the current period associated with decommissioning trust fund investments also contributed to lower earnings.
revenue amortization for the Palisades below-market Power Purchase Agreement
Table 5 provides a comparative summary of Entergy Nuclear's operational performance measures.
Entergy Nuclear's sold forward position is 87 percent, 66 percent, and 46 percent of planned generation at average prices per megawatt-hour of $60, $60 and $56, for 2009, 2010, and 2011, respectively. Table 6 provides capacity and generation sold forward projections for Entergy Nuclear.
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business results were essentially unchanged in first quarter 2009 compared to first quarter 2008 with a loss of $(0.03) per share in the current period compared to $(0.04) per share a year ago.
IV.
Other Financial Performance Highlights
Earnings Guidance
Entergy is reaffirming 2009 earnings guidance in the range of $6.70 to $7.30 per share on an operational basis, assuming a business as usual operation for the full year. As-reported guidance ranges from $6.56 to $7.16 and reflects $(0.14) per share of projected dis-synergies associated with the spin-off of Entergy's non-utility nuclear business and plans to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, both discussed below and in Appendix A. Guidance for 2009 does not include a special item for expenses, which were incurred beginning in 2008 and continuing in first quarter 2009, anticipated in connection with the outside services provided to pursue the spin-off. Entergy has indicated that should the current economic climate and power prices on Entergy Nuclear's open position persist for the balance of 2009, earnings could approach the lower end of the guidance ranges. Year-over-year changes are shown as point estimates and are applied to 2008 actual results to compute the 2009 guidance midpoint. Because there is a range of possible outcomes associated with each earnings driver, a range is applied to the calculated guidance midpoints to produce Entergy's guidance ranges for as-reported and operational earnings. 2009 earnings guidance is detailed in Table 7 below.
Key assumptions supporting 2009 earnings guidance are as follows:
Utility, Parent & Other
Normal weather
Retail sales growth just under 3 percent, considering effects of 2008 hurricanes and industrial expansion; nearly flat on a normalized basis excluding hurricane effect and industrial expansion
Increased revenue associated with rate actions
Decreased non-fuel operation and maintenance expense, due to absence of Entergy Arkansas' 4 quarter 2008 charge associated with non-recovery of storm reserve and removal costs; inflation essentially offset by cost reduction initiatives
th
Decreased income taxes due to lower effective tax rate in 2009 compared to 2008
Accretion/other is primarily driven by carrying costs recorded on unrecovered storm costs in 2009, and lower interest expense at the Parent due to lower debt outstanding and lower interest rate on corporate revolver, partially offset by higher depreciation expense associated with capital additions
Entergy Nuclear
41 TWh of total output, reflecting an approximate 93 percent capacity factor, including 30 day refueling outages at Pilgrim and Palisades and 38 days at Indian Point 3 in Spring 2009
86 percent of energy sold under existing contracts; 14 percent sold into the spot market
$61/MWh average energy contract price; $58/MWh average unsold energy price based on published market prices at the end of 2008
Palisades below-market PPA revenue amortization of $53 million in 2009, down from $76 million in 2008
Non-fuel O&M/refueling outage expense growth of approximately 2 percent
Increased income taxes due to higher effective tax rate in 2009 compared to 2008
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Increased losses associated with a business that targets a break-even operation
Share Repurchase Program
2009 average fully diluted shares outstanding of approximately 194 million (including effect of equity units conversion)
Effective Income Tax Rate
2009 assumes an overall effective income tax rate of 37 percent
Earnings guidance for 2009 should be considered in association with earnings sensitivities as shown in Table 8. These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in operational earnings resulting from changes in various revenue and expense drivers. Utility sales are expected to be the most significant variable for 2009 results for Utility, Parent & Other. At Entergy Nuclear, energy prices are expected to be the most significant driver of results in 2009. Estimated annual impacts shown in Table 8 are intended to be indicative rather than precise guidance.
Liquidity
At the end of the first quarter, Entergy had $1.8 billion of cash and cash equivalents on hand on a consolidated basis. Entergy also has additional financing authority, subject to debt covenants, including undrawn revolving credit facility capacity of $725 million at the end of the first quarter. Entergy routinely tests the adequacy of its liquidity under various stress scenarios and believes its current liquidity position affords the desired level of financial flexibility. Entergy Corporation's revolving credit facility requires it to maintain a consolidated debt ratio of 65 percent or less of its total capitalization. Some of the utility company credit facilities also have similar covenants.
For 2009, Entergy projected consolidated net liquidity sources of approximately $2.9 billion taking into consideration its liquidity position at December 31, 2008 and other projected sources and uses of liquidity generated in 2009. Primary sources included projected undrawn revolving credit facility capacity, operating cash flow, and planned financing/refinancing activity, primarily for Entergy Texas and other Utility Operating Companies, as well as the refinancing of $500 million of Entergy Corporation Senior Notes. Uses focused on meeting debt maturities in the fourth quarter and other voluntary debt repayment (primarily pursuant to Entergy Texas Debt Assumption Agreement and for revolving credit facilities), equity units conversion of $500 million debt to equity, as well as capital expenditures, dividend payments and share repurchases.
During the first quarter, Entergy Texas successfully completed a $500 million financing in January. Entergy expects there will be similar windows of opportunity to access the credit markets in 2009. In addition, higher than projected storm expenditures for the January ice storm in Arkansas and hurricanes Gustav and Ike will result in lower operating cash flow. To the extent earnings approach the lower end of the guidance range, operating cash flow could be further reduced. Taking these factors into consideration, Entergy continues to see its net liquidity sources above $2 billion, affording the desired level of financial flexibility on a consolidated basis from a liquidity perspective.
Table 9 provides a summary of liquidity sources and uses from December 31, 2008 through December 31, 2009.
Debt Maturities
Debt maturities in 2009 include just over $500 million in the fourth quarter. In April, Entergy Arkansas entered into a new credit facility agreement through April 2010 in the amount of $88 million. Prior to expiration in May, Entergy Mississippi expects to renew its revolving credit facilities of $50 million. These facilities are generally renewed on an annual basis. The remaining credit facilities expire in 2012.
Table 10 provides details on Entergy's debt maturities.
V.
Business Separation
On November 3, 2007, Entergy's Board of Directors approved a plan to pursue a separation of the non-utility nuclear business from Entergy's regulated utility business through a tax-free spin-off of the non-utility nuclear business. Enexus Energy Corporation will be a new, independent publicly traded company. In addition, Entergy and Enexus intend to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, with equal ownership.
EquaGen LLC has been selected as the name for the joint venture.
Progress achieved since the last quarter update and/or current status include:
An advisory committee of announced members of the Enexus Board has begun to meet periodically.
Discussions continue with regulators in Vermont and New York
In Vermont, all scheduled procedural matters have been completed and a decision from the Vermont Public Service Board is pending.
In New York, settlement discussions are ongoing per the December 2008 notification by the ALJs that the parties intended to conduct a settlement discussion
.
Entergy and Enexus remain in a rolling readiness posture.
The state regulatory decisions and financing continue as the critical path items. The rolling readiness posture enables Entergy to execute the spin-off following receipt of regulatory approvals and once the timing is right to access the credit markets, both on acceptable terms.
Additional information on the spin-off including proposed new business structure, leadership teams, business overviews, financial aspirations, and a transaction timeline including regulatory filing status are included in Appendix A of this release.
VI.
Appendices
Seven appendices are presented in this section as follows:
Appendix A includes information on Entergy's plan to separate the non-utility nuclear business from Entergy's regulated utility business through a tax-free spin-off of the non-utility nuclear business.
Appendix B includes earnings per share variance analysis and detail on special items that relate to the current quarter.
Appendix C provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
Appendix D provides financial metrics for both current and historical periods. In addition, historical financial and operating performance metrics are included for the trailing eight quarters.
Appendix E provides a summary of planned capital expenditures for the next three years.
Appendix F provides definitions of the operational performance measures and GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures that are used in this release.
Appendix G provides a reconciliation of GAAP to non-GAAP financial measures used in this release.
Appendix A provides information on Entergy's planned spin-off of its non-utility nuclear business.
The announced spin-off of Entergy's non-utility nuclear business will establish a new independent, publicly traded company. Enexus Energy Corporation has been selected as the name of the new company. In addition, Entergy and Enexus intend to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, with equal ownership. EquaGen LLC has been selected as the name for the joint venture. Below are transaction details and other information on Entergy, Enexus and EquaGen.
New Business Structure
Once the transaction is complete, Entergy Corporation's shareholders will own 100 percent of the common equity in both Entergy and Enexus. Enexus' business is expected to be comprised of the non-utility nuclear assets, including the Pilgrim Nuclear Station in Plymouth, Mass., the James A. FitzPatrick and Indian Point Energy Center plants in Oswego and Buchanan, N.Y., respectively, the Palisades plant in Covert, Mich., and the Vermont Yankee plant in Brattleboro, Vt., and a power marketing operation. Entergy's business will be comprised of the current six regulated utility operating subsidiaries, System Energy Resources, Inc., the related services subsidiaries System Fuels, Inc., Entergy Operations, Inc. and Entergy Services, Inc., and the remaining Entergy subsidiaries.
The newly created joint venture, EquaGen, is expected to operate the nuclear assets owned by Enexus. EquaGen is also expected to offer nuclear services to third parties, including decommissi oning, plant relicensing and plant operations for Cooper Nuclear Station and others.
The joint venture operating structure for Enexus ensures that the core nuclear operations expertise currently in place at each of the non-utility nuclear plants will remain after the spin-off. Entergy Nuclear Operations, Inc., the current NRC-licensed operator of the non-utility nuclear plants, is expected to be wholly-owned by EquaGen and will remain the operator of the plants after the separation. Entergy Operations, Inc., the current NRC-licensed operator of Entergy's utility nuclear plants, will also remain in place as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Entergy and will continue to be the operator of the utility nuclear plants. The decision to retain the existing operators for the nuclear stations reflects Entergy's commitment to maintaining safety, security and operational excellence.
Leadership Team
The Entergy Board of Directors has approved certain elements of the leadership structure and designated individuals who will fill key board and management roles. The EquaGen Board of Managers will be comprised of equal membership from both Entergy and Enexus.
Brief Overview of Each Business
After completion of the business separation, Entergy will consist of the current six electric utility subsidiaries in four contiguous states with generating capacity of more than 22,000 megawatts and 15,000 miles of transmission lines. Entergy will be a customer service-focused electric and gas utility with a unique growth opportunity through its portfolio transformation strategy that benefits customers. The company will deliver electricity to 2.7 million customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Texas and will remain headquartered in New Orleans, La.
Enexus is expected to own nearly 5,000 megawatts of nuclear generation, most of which is located in the northeastern United States. This location has some of the highest average regional power prices in the United States both today and expected into the future through at least 2020. The company will be headquartered in Jackson, Miss.
EquaGen is expected to be owned 50 percent each by Entergy and Enexus, and expected to have operating responsibility for Enexus' nuclear fleet. The company will be headquartered in Jackson, Miss.
As a premier nuclear operator, the joint venture will have broad nuclear experience building and operating boiling and pressurized water reactor technologies. EquaGen is expected to be uniquely positioned to grow through offerings of nuclear operating expertise, as well as ancillary nuclear services to third parties, including plant decommissioning and relicensing.
Financial Aspirations
The companies will continue to aspire to deliver superior value to owners as measured by total shareholder return. The companies believe top-quartile shareholder returns are achieved by growing earnings, delivering returns at or above the risk-adjusted cost of capital, maintaining credit quality and flexibility, and deploying capital in a disciplined manner, whether for new investments, share repurchases, dividends or debt retirements.
Financial aspirations through 2012 include the following:
Top-quartile total shareholder return:
Entergy: 6-8% annual earnings per share growth, a 70 to 75% dividend payout ratio target, and capacity for a new share repurchase program targeted at $2.5 billion, $0.5 billion of which has already been authorized by the Entergy Board of Directors, with the balance to be authorized and to commence following completion of spin-off
Enexus: $2 billion in earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization and interest and dividend income (EBITDA), a non-GAAP financial measure defined in Appendix F, by 2012 (which assumes an average power price on open positions of roughly $95/MWh on existing plants or deployment of capital resulting in additional earnings potential) generating cash flow for investment which would create additional EBITDA, debt repayment capacity and/or distributions through share repurchases in the range of up to $0.5 billion to $1 billion annually
Credit quality and flexibility to manage risk and act on opportunities:
Entergy: investment grade credit with a lower risk profile
Enexus: strong merchant credit, relative to others (subject to market terms and conditions, Enexus expects to execute up to $4.5 billion of debt financing)
The amount of repurchases may vary as a result of material changes in business results or capital spending or new investment opportunities. Entergy and Enexus further acknowledge that limitations presented by the current credit markets, as well as depressed power prices in markets where Enexus sells power, create implications for near-term financing plans and financial results. Should these conditions extend for a prolonged period, financial aspirations would likely be affected. At the same time, current market conditions also create potential capital deployment opportunities for companies with ample liquidity which in turn creates opportunity to grow EBITDA.
2012 aspirations can be considered in association with financial sensitivities as shown in Table 11. These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in aspiration resulting from changes in aspiration drivers. Estimated impacts shown in Table 11 are intended to be illustrative.
Transaction Timing
The state regulatory decisions and financing continue as the critical path items. Due to the continued turmoil in the financial markets and a longer regulatory approval process than originally expected, Entergy and Enexus remain in a rolling readiness posture. This strategy enables Entergy to execute the spin-off following receipt of regulatory approvals and once the timing is right to access the credit markets, both on acceptable terms. The transaction is expected to close on a month end. The transactions are subject to various approvals, outlined in the following table. Final terms of the transactions and spin-off completion are subject to the subsequent approval of the Entergy Board of Directors
. Citigroup and Goldman Sachs are serving as Entergy's financial advisors in this process.
Appendix B-1 provides details of first quarter 2009 vs. 2008 earnings variance analysis for "Utility, Parent & Other," "Competitive Businesses," and "Consolidated."
The decrease is due primarily to an impairment associated with decommissioning trust fund investments.
The decrease is due primarily to
lower revenues at Entergy Nuclear from lower production due to increased number of planned refueling outage days during the quarter and lower revenue amortization for the Palisades below-market Power Purchase Agreement.
The increase is due primarily to the absence in the current period of the effects of a favorable resolution of a tax audit issue in first quarter 2008, which is partially offset in net revenue, and higher ad valorem and franchise taxes.
The increase is due primarily to expenses recorded at the Parent for outside services to pursue the non-utility nuclear spin-off.
The increase is due primarily to non-utility nuclear spin-off dis-synergy expenses incurred at Entergy Nuclear.
Appendix B-2 lists special items by business with quarter-to-quarter comparisons. Amounts are shown on both earnings per share and net income bases. Special items are those events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. Special items are included in as-reported earnings per share consistent with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but are excluded from operational earnings per share. As a result, operational earnings per share is considered a non-GAAP measure.
 
Appendix C provides a summary of selected regulatory cases and events that are pending.
 
 
Appendix D-1 provides comparative financial performance measures for the current quarter. Appendix D-2 provides historical financial performance measures and operating performance metrics for the trailing eight quarters. Financial performance measures in both tables include those calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), as well as those that are considered non-GAAP measures.
As-reported measures are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of earnings, including special items. Operational measures are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational earnings, which excludes the impact of special items. A reconciliation of operational measures to as-reported measures is provided in Appendix G.
 
Appendix E: Planned Capital Expenditures
Entergy's capital plan from 2009 through 2011 anticipates $6.5 billion for investment, including $2.5 billion of maintenance capital. The remaining $4.0 billion is for specific investments such as the balance of Utility storm capital spending and the Utility's portfolio transformation strategy, the steam generator replacement at Entergy Louisiana's Waterford 3 nuclear unit, environmental compliance spending (i.e., spending for the installation of scrubbers and low NOx burners at Entergy Arkansas' White Bluff coal plant), transmission upgrades, dry cask storage, nuclear license renewal efforts, NYPA value sharing, the Indian Point Independent Safety Evaluation, and other initiatives.
The three year capital plan includes $1.1 billion for the Little Gypsy repowering project for which Entergy Louisiana plans to make a filing seeking a long-term suspension (three years or more). Spending through December 31, 2008 was reported at $135 million. $300 million is the total projected spending in the event Little Gypsy is canceled. In addition, the Utility incurred additional storm spending for the January 2009 Arkansas ice storm ranging from $55 to $60 million.
Appendix F provides definitions of certain operational performance measures, as well as GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, all of which are referenced in this release.
Financial measures defined in the below table include measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (GAAP), as well as non-GAAP measures. Non-GAAP measures are included in this release in order to provide metrics that remove the effect of less routine financial impacts from commonly used financial metrics.
 
Appendices G-1 and G-2 provide reconciliations of various non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in this release to their most comparable GAAP measure.
 
**********************************************************************************************************************
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in (i) Entergy's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 and (ii) Entergy's other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (b) the uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike and the January 2009 Arkansas ice storm and recovery of costs associated with restoration, and (c) the following transactional factors (in addition to others described elsewhere in this news release and in subsequent securities filings): (i) risks inherent in the contemplated spin-off, joint venture and related transactions (including the level of debt to be incurred by Enexus Energy Corporation and the terms and costs related thereto), (ii) legislative and regulatory actions, and (iii) condit ions of the capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements. Entergy cannot provide any assurances that the spin-off or any of the proposed transactions related thereto will be completed, nor can it give assurances as to the terms on which such transactions will be consummated. The transaction is subject to certain conditions precedent, including regulatory approvals and the final approval by the Board of Directors of Entergy.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Entergy 639 Loyola Avenue New Orleans, LA  70113
Exhibit 99.2
New Orleans, La. - Entergy Corporation (NYSE:ETR) today reported first quarter 2009 as-reported earnings of $235.3 million, or $1.20 per share, compared with $308.7 million, or $1.56 per share, for first quarter 2008. On an operational basis, Entergy's first quarter 2009 earnings were $252.6 million, or $1.29 per share, compared with $308.7 million, or $1.56 per share, in first quarter 2008.
*GAAP refers to United States generally accepted accounting principles.
Utility, Parent & Other results were lower due to higher other taxes and depreciation and amortization expenses.
Entergy Nuclear earnings decreased as a result of lower production due to additional planned refueling outage days and impairments recorded on decommissioning trust fund investments.
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets results were essentially flat.
"In the current uncertain climate, we have focused significant effort on positioning the company for long-term success while weathering the current economic storm," said . "While we cannot predict what will come next in these times, we will be relentless in seeking value and managing risk, and we are prepared to seize opportunities that add value for our stakeholders."
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergy's chairman and chief executive officer
Leonard was named one of the nation's "Best CEOs" by magazine, his sixth consecutive year for achieving the honor.
Institutional Investor
Entergy received its 12 and 13 industry awards for restoring power after major storms and is the only company recognized 11 years in a row by Edison Electric Institute for its storm restoration work.
th
th
Indian Point 3 completed 678 continuous days of operation as it entered its refueling outage in March. This run marked an operating record for Westinghouse Pressurized Water Reactors which account for nearly one-fourth of the commercial nuclear power reactors in the U.S.
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10 a.m. CDT on Monday, May 4, 2009, with access by telephone, 719-457-2080, confirmation code 8064872. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergy's Web site at . A replay of the teleconference will be available for seven days thereafter by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 8064872. The replay will also be available on Entergy's Web site at .
www.entergy.com
www.entergy.com
In first quarter 2009, Utility, Parent & Other had earnings of $60.0 million, or 32 cents per share, on an as-reported basis and $70.7 million, or 37 cents per share, on an operational basis, compared to earnings of $95.3 million, or 48 cents per share, on as-reported and operational bases in first quarter 2008. Operational results for Utility, Parent & Other in first quarter 2009 reflect higher taxes other than income taxes due to the absence of the benefit associated with favorable resolution of tax audit issues that was included in results in first quarter 2008. Higher depreciation and amortization expense also contributed to lower results in the current quarter.
Residential megawatt-hour sales in first quarter 2009, on a weather-adjusted basis, showed a 1.8 percent decrease compared to first quarter 2008, which was also a leap year. Commercial and governmental sales, after adjusting for weather, decreased 1.2 percent year over year. Industrial sales in the first quarter were down 13.2 percent compared to the same quarter of 2008.
The residential and commercial and governmental sales sectors reflected a decrease quarter to quarter as the continued weakening in the economy affected customer usage across these sectors. Sales in the industrial sector for first quarter 2009 decreased significantly compared to the same quarter of 2008 primarily due to a weak economic climate that worsened in the current period. Small and mid-sized industrial customers are also being negatively affected by overseas competition. Despite the lower sales volume, net revenue at the Utility was essentially flat, in part due to the fact that a significant portion of the industrial customer bill is based on a fixed charge basis that does not vary linearly with volume changes.
Entergy Nuclear earned $180.9 million, or 91 cents per share, on an as-reported basis and $187.5 million, or 95 cents per share, on an operational basis in first quarter 2009, compared to $221.7 million, or $1.12 per share, on as-reported and operational bases in first quarter 2008. Entergy Nuclear's earnings decreased primarily as a result of lower revenue due to lower generation resulting from additional planned refueling outage days and lower revenue amortization for the Palisades below-market Power Purchase Agreement. Impairments recorded in the current period associated with decommissioning trust fund investments also contributed to lower earnings.
Entergy's Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business incurred a loss of $5.6 million, or three cents per share, on both as-reported and operational bases in first quarter 2009 compared to a loss of $8.2 million, or four cents per share, a year ago.
Entergy is reaffirming 2009 earnings guidance in the range of $6.70 to $7.30 per share on an operational basis, assuming a business-as-usual operation for the full year. As-reported guidance ranges from $6.56 to $7.16 and reflects (14) cents per share of projected dis-synergies associated with the spin-off of Entergy's non-utility nuclear business and plans to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, both discussed below. Guidance for 2009 does not include a special item for expenses, which were incurred beginning in 2008 and continuing in first quarter 2009, anticipated in connection with the outside services provided to pursue the spin-off.  Entergy has indicated that should the current economic climate and power prices on Entergy Nuclear's open position persist for the balance of 2009, earnings could approach the lower end of the guidance ranges.
On Nov. 3, 2007, Entergy's Board of Directors approved a plan to pursue a separation of the non-utility nuclear business from Entergy's regulated utility business through a tax-free spin-off of the non-utility nuclear business. Enexus Energy Corporation will be a new, independent publicly traded company. In addition, Entergy and Enexus intend to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, with equal ownership. EquaGen LLC has been selected as the name for the joint venture.
Progress achieved since the last quarter update and/or current status includes:
An advisory committee of announced members of the Enexus Board has begun to meet periodically.
Discussions continue with regulators in Vermont and New York
In Vermont, all scheduled procedural matters have been completed and a decision from the Vermont Public Service Board is pending.
In New York, settlement discussions are ongoing per the December 2008 notification by the ALJs that the parties intended to conduct a settlement discussion.
Entergy and Enexus remain in a rolling readiness posture.
The state regulatory decisions and financing continue as the critical path items. The rolling readiness posture enables Entergy to execute the spin-off following receipt of regulatory approvals and once the timing is right to access the credit markets, both on acceptable terms.
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.7 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $13 billion and approximately 14,700 employees.
Additional information regarding Entergy's quarterly results of operations, regulatory proceedings, and other operations is available in Entergy's investor news release dated May 4, 2009, a copy of which has been filed today with the Securities Exchange Commission on Form 8-K and is available on Entergy's investor relations Web site at www.entergy.com/investor_relations.
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in (i) Entergy's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008 and (ii) Entergy's other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (b) the uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike and the January 2009 Arkansas ice storm and recovery of costs associated with restoration, and (c) the following transactional factors (in addition to others described elsewhere in this news release and in subsequent securities filings): (i) risks inherent in the contemplated spin-off, joint venture and related transactions (including the level of debt to be incurred by Enexus Energy Corporation and the terms and costs related thereto), (ii) legislative and regulatory actions, and (iii) conditions of the capi tal markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements. Entergy cannot provide any assurances that the spin-off or any of the proposed transactions related thereto will be completed, nor can it give assurances as to the terms on which such transactions will be consummated. The transaction is subject to certain conditions precedent, including regulatory approvals and the final approval by the Board of Directors of Entergy.
 
Appendix A provides a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Releases"), contain non-GAAP financial measures. Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Releases and the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
Certain non-GAAP measures in the Releases could differ from GAAP only in that the figure or ratio states or includes operational earnings per share. Operational earnings per share is presented for each of Entergy's major business segments as well as on a consolidated basis. Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the effect of "special items." Special items reflect the effect on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses. In the first quarter 2009 covered by the Releases, Entergy reported a special item for expenses incurred in connection with the plan to pursue the separation of Entergy's non-utility nuclear business and to enter into a nuclear services joint venture.. In addition, other financial measures including return on average invested capital (ROIC), return on average common equity (ROE), and net margin - operational are included on both an operational and as-reported basis. In each case, the metrics defined as "operational" would exclude the effect of special items as defined above. Management believes financial metrics calculated using operational earnings provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of Entergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector. Entergy management frequently references these non-GAAP financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
Other non-GAAP measures, total gross liquidity, net debt to net capital ratio, and net debt ratio including off-balance sheet liabilities are measures Entergy uses internally for management and board discussions, and cash budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business. Entergy believes the above data provides useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial flexibility, and assists investors in comparing the company's cash availability to the cash availability of others in the energy sector.
Another non-GAAP measure presented in the Releases is EBITDA. EBITDA is a non-GAAP measurement Entergy has used to gauge Enexus' future operating performance. Entergy defines EBITDA as net earnings before the effect of interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization. EBITDA is provided as a measure of Enexus' future performance and debt-service capacity that may be useful to securities analysis, investors and others. EBITDA is not, however, a measure of financial performance under GAAP. Due to the forward-looking nature of this non-GAAP measure, information to reconcile EBITDA to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure is not available at this time. Moreover, EBITDA is not calculated identically by all companies.
The non-GAAP financial measures and other reported adjusted items in Entergy's Releases are used in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  These non-GAAP financial measures should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.  These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  Investors are strongly encouraged to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.  Non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized; therefore, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names.


