FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20090914163159.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
On September 8, 2009, the Board of Directors of Entergy Corporation (the Company) elected Dr. Stewart C. Myers to serve on the Board of Directors.  Dr. Myers was elected to the Board to fill a current vacancy on the Board.
Dr. Myers is the Robert C. Merton (1970) Professor of Financial Economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Sloan School of Management. His research has concentrated on the theory and practice of corporate finance, including the role of information and incentives in corporate financing and methods for evaluating corporate investments. Recent research projects include the valuation of investments in research and development, risk management, the allocation of capital in diversified firms, and the theory of corporate governance. Dr. Myers is the co-author of the textbook, Principles of Corporate Finance, now in its 9th edition.  Dr. Myers received his Ph.D. and MBA from Stanford University and A.B. from Williams College. He is past president of the American Finance Association and a Research Associate of the National Bureau of Economic Research. He is also a Principal of The Brattle Group, Inc.
There are no arrangements or understandings between Dr. Myers and any other person pursuant to which he was elected as a director of the Company.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


