FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20091022074907.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
 
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
On October 22, 2009, Entergy Corporation issued two public announcements, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto (the Earnings Releases) and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the third quarter 2009.  The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
On October 22, 2009, Entergy Corporation issued the Earnings Releases, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the third quarter 2009.  The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01.
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Entergy Corporation
 
 
By:
/s/ Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
Senior Vice President and
Chief Accounting Officer
 
Dated: October 22, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
INVESTOR NEWS
 
October 22, 2009
 
NEW ORLEANS   Entergy Corporation reported third quarter 2009 earnings of $2.32 per share on an as-reported basis and $2.40 per share on an operational basis, as shown in
Table 1
 below.  A more detailed discussion of quarterly results begins on page 2 of this release.
 
 
Operational Earnings Highlights for Third Quarter 2009
 
 
While we continue to experience the negative effects of the slowed economic recovery, we are also seeing the positive benefits from progress in key initiatives in both our utility and non-utility nuclear businesses, said .  We are focused on constantly recalibrating our point of view as markets and government policies react to the financial crisis, managing our own risks and executing as opportunities arise.
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergys chairman and chief executive officer
 
 
 
 
 
Entergys business highlights include the following:
 
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10:00 a.m. CT on Thursday, October 22, 2009, with access by telephone, 719-457-2080, confirmation code 4133911.  The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergys Web site at .  A replay of the teleconference will be available through October 29, 2009 by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 4133911.  The replay will also be available on Entergys Web site at .
www.entergy.com
www.entergy.com
 
 
Consolidated Earnings
 
Table 2
 provides a comparative summary of consolidated earnings per share for third quarter 2009 versus 2008, including a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.  Utility, Parent & Others operational earnings were lower due to the absence in the current quarter of an adjustment recorded in third quarter 2008 that reduced income tax expense.  Higher operation and maintenance expense also contributed to lower earnings.  Partially offsetting in as-reported results for Utility, Parent & Other was a reduction in the current quarter of the special item for outside services expenses for the spin-off.  Entergy Nuclears earnings increased as a result of higher revenue due to higher production resulting from fewer planned refueling and unplanned outage days and higher other income.  As-reported results for Entergy Nuclear were reduced by the special item for spin-off dis-synergies.  Entergys Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business reported improved results due to the absence in the current period of a 2008 adjustment increasing income tax expense.
 
 
Detailed earnings variance analysis is included in
Appendix B
-1 and
Appendix B
-2 to this release.  In addition,
Appendix B
-3 provides details of special items shown in
Table 2
 above.
 
Consolidated Net Cash Flow Provided by Operating Activities
 
Entergys net cash flow provided by operating activities in third quarter 2009 was $993 million compared to $1.8 billion in third quarter 2008.  The decrease was due primarily to:
 
 
Offsets include:
 
Table 3
the components of net cash flow provided by operating activities contributed by each business with quarterly and year-to-date comparisons.
 provides
 
 
 
In third quarter 2009, Utility, Parent & Others as-reported earnings were $1.32 per share compared to $1.47 per share in third quarter 2008.  On an operational basis, third quarter 2009 earnings for Utility, Parent & Other were $1.35 per share versus $1.56 per share in the same quarter last year.  Operational results for Utility, Parent & Other in third quarter 2009 reflect the absence of the 2008 adjustment reducing income tax expense (associated with the liquidation of a subsidiary) and higher operation and maintenance expense.  Partially offsetting lower results were higher net revenue and other income.  The effects of hurricanes Gustav and Ike reduced revenue in third quarter 2008.
 
Electricity usage, in gigawatt-hour sales by customer segment, is included in
Table 4
following:
.  Current quarter sales reflect the
 
 
The weak economy continued to depress sales in the industrial sector, but to a lesser extent than second quarter 2009, which reflected a 10 percent decline.  Residential and commercial sales increases reflected the absence of two hurricanes that reduced usage in third quarter last year.  Industrial sales in third quarter 2009 for large customers reflected continued weaknesses in chemicals and primary metals.  Small and mid-sized industrial customers continue to be the industrial segments most negatively affected by weakness in the economy.  Increased sales also included contributions from the warmer-than-normal weather particularly from mid June to early July, as reflected in July billed sales, compared to near-normal weather in third quarter 2008.
 
Table 4
 provides a comparative summary of the Utilitys operational performance measures.
 
 
C
Appendix
 provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
 
Entergys competitive businesses include Entergy Nuclear and Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets.
 
Entergy Nuclear
 
Entergy Nuclear earned $1.02 per share on an as-reported basis and $1.07 per share on an operational basis in third quarter 2009, compared to $1.05 per share on as-reported and operational bases in third quarter 2008.  Entergy Nuclears operational earnings increased as a result of higher revenue from higher generation due to fewer planned and unplanned outage days in the current quarter and increased other income primarily associated with decommissioning trust funds.  An impairment was recognized on Entergy Nuclears decommissioning trust funds in third quarter 2008 versus no impairments in the current period where gains were recognized on investment transactions.  Higher operation and maintenance expense during the quarter and the absence of the 2008 adjustment reducing income tax expense (associated with Massachusetts state tax law) were partially offsetting.  Finally, as-reported results were further reduced by the special item for spin-off dis-synergies.
 
Table 5
 provides a comparative summary of Entergy Nuclears operational performance measures.
 
 
Entergy Nuclears sold forward position is 86 percent, 88 percent, and 63 percent of planned generation at average prices per megawatt-hour of $59, $57 and $56, for the fourth quarter of 2009, 2010, and 2011, respectively.  
Table 6
 provides capacity and generation sold forward projections for Entergy Nuclear.
 
 
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
 
Entergys Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets third quarter as-reported and operational losses were $(0.02) per share in 2009 compared to losses of $(0.11) per share a year ago.  Business results improved due primarily to lower income tax expense due to the absence of a 2008 adjustment associated with the redemption of an investment that had the effect of increasing income tax expense.
 
 
Earnings Guidance
 
Entergy is reaffirming 2009 earnings guidance in the range of $6.20 to $6.80 per share on an operational basis.  As-reported guidance ranges from $6.00 to $6.60 per share and incorporates spin-off expenses for outside services through June 30, 2009, in addition to projected dis-synergies associated with the spin-off of Entergys non-utility nuclear business and plans to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, both discussed below and in
Appendix A
.  Year-over-year changes are shown as point estimates and are applied to 2008 actual results to compute the 2009 guidance midpoint.  Drivers for the 2009 operational guidance range revisions made in July 2009 are listed separately.  Because there is a range of possible outcomes associated with each earnings driver, a range is applied to the calculated guidance midpoints to produce Entergys guidance ranges for as-reported and operational earnings.  2009 earnings guidance is detailed in
Table 7
 below.
 
 
Key assumptions supporting 2009 earnings guidance are as follows:
 
Utility, Parent & Other
 
Entergy Nuclear
 
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
 
Share Repurchase Program
 
Effective Income Tax Rate
 
Revised 2009 Guidance Range Assumptions Reflect:
 
Earnings guidance for 2009 should be considered in association with earnings sensitivities as shown in
Table 8
. These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in operational earnings resulting from changes in various revenue and expense drivers.  Utility sales are expected to be the most significant variable for 2009 results for Utility, Parent & Other.  At Entergy Nuclear, energy prices are expected to be the most significant driver of results in 2009.  Estimated annual impacts shown in
Table 8
 are intended to be indicative rather than precise guidance.
 
 
 
 
Seven appendices are presented in this section as follows:
 
 
Appendix A
information on Entergys planned spin-off of its non-utility nuclear business.
 provides
 
 
The announced spin-off of Entergys non-utility nuclear business will establish a new independent, publicly traded company, Enexus Energy Corporation.  In addition, Entergy and Enexus intend to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, with equal ownership, with the joint venture being named EquaGen LLC.  The state regulatory decisions and financing continue as the critical path items in finalizing the spin-off transaction.  The transactions are subject to various approvals, outlined in the following table.  Regarding financing, on October 1, 2009, Enexus executed Amendment No. 1 to its credit agreement dated December 23, 2008, increasing the total facility amount to $1.2 billion from $1.175 billion.  Enexus will not be permitted to draw down the facility until certain customary and transactional conditions are met on or prior to July 1, 2010.  Final terms of the transactions and spin-off completion are subject to the approval of the Entergy Board of Directors.
 
 
 
 
Appendix B
-1 and
Appendix B
, and Consolidated.
-2 provide details of third quarter and year-to-date 2009 vs. 2008 as-reported and operational earnings variance analysis for Utility, Parent & Other, Competitive Businesses
 
 
 
 
(m)  The variance year-to-date is due primarily to impairments associated with decommissioning trust fund investments exceeding
        similar impairments recorded in 2008.
 
 
Appendix B
-3 lists special items by business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons.  Amounts are shown on both earnings per share and net income bases.  Special items are those events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses.  Special items are included in as-reported earnings per share consistent with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but are excluded from operational earnings per share.  As a result, operational earnings per share is considered a non-GAAP measure.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix
D
-1 provides comparative financial performance measures for the current quarter.  
Appendix
D
-2 provides historical financial performance measures and operating performance metrics for the trailing eight quarters. Financial performance measures in both tables include those calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), as well as those that are considered non-GAAP measures.
 
As-reported measures are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of net income, including special items.  Operational measures are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational net income, which excludes the impact of special items.  A reconciliation of operational measures to as-reported measures is provided
in
Appendix F
.
 
 
 
       
(
p
)
Excludes impact of major storm activity.
 
 
Appendix E
definitions of certain operational performance measures, as well as GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, all of which are referenced in this release.
 provides
 
 
Financial measures defined in the below table include measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (GAAP), as well as non-GAAP measures.  Non-GAAP measures are included in this release in order to provide metrics that remove the effect of less routine financial impacts from commonly used financial metrics.
 
 
 
 
Appendix F
-1 and
Appendix F
-2 provide reconciliations of various non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in this release to their most comparable GAAP measure.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
**********************************************************************************************************************
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in (i) Entergys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, (ii) Entergys Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31 and June 30, 2009, and (iii) Entergys other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (b) the uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike and the January 2009 Arkansas ice storm and recovery of costs associated with restoration, and (c) the following transactional factors (in addition to others described elsewhere in this news release and in subsequent securities filings): (i) risks inherent in the contemplated spin-off, joint venture and related transactions (including the level of debt to be incurred by Enexus Energy Corporation and the terms and costs related thereto), (ii) legislative and regulatory actions, and (iii) conditions of the capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements.  Entergy cannot provide any assurances that the spin-off or any of the proposed transactions related thereto will be completed, nor can it give assurances as to the terms on which such transactions will be consummated.  The transaction is subject to certain conditions precedent, including regulatory approvals and the final approval by the Board of Directors of Entergy.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
Entergy
639 Loyola Avenue
New Orleans, LA  70113
 
News
Release
 
 
New Orleans, La.  Entergy Corporation (NYSE:ETR) today reported third quarter 2009 as-reported earnings of $455.2 million, or $2.32 per share, compared with $470.3 million, or $2.41 per share, for third quarter 2008. On an operational basis, Entergys third quarter 2009 earnings were $470.7 million, or $2.40 per share, compared with $487.3 million, or $2.50 per share, in third quarter 2008.
 
     
*GAAP refers to United States generally accepted accounting principles.
 
 
While we continue to experience the negative effects of the slowed economic recovery, we are also seeing the positive benefits from progress in key initiatives in both our utility and non-utility nuclear businesses, said We are focused on constantly recalibrating our point of view as markets and government policies react to the financial crisis, managing our own risks and executing as opportunities arise.
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergys chairman and chief executive officer.
 
 
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10:00 a.m. CT on Thursday, Oct. 22, 2009, with access by telephone, 719-457-2080, confirmation code 4133911. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergys Web site at www.entergy.com. A replay of the teleconference will be available through Oct. 29, 2009, by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 4133911. The replay will also be available on Entergys Web site at www.entergy.com.
In third quarter 2009, Utility, Parent & Other had as-reported earnings of $259.6 million, or $1.32 per share, compared to $286.0 million, or $1.47 per share, in third quarter 2008. On an operational basis, third quarter 2009 earnings were $264.8 million, or $1.35 per share, compared to $303.0 million, or $1.56 per share, in third quarter 2008. Operational results for Utility, Parent & Other in third quarter 2009 reflect the absence of the 2008 adjustment reducing income tax expense (associated with the liquidation of a subsidiary) and higher operation and maintenance expense. Partially offsetting lower results were higher net revenue and other income. The effects of hurricanes Gustav and Ike reduced revenue in third quarter 2008.
 
Residential sales in third quarter 2009, on a weather-adjusted basis, increased 3.2 percent compared to third quarter 2008. Commercial and governmental sales, on a weather-adjusted basis, increased 1.1 percent year over year. Industrial sales in the third quarter were down 6.3 percent compared to the same quarter of 2008.
 
The weak economy continued to depress sales in the industrial sector, but to a lesser extent than second quarter 2009, which reflected a 10 percent decline. Residential and commercial sales increases reflected the absence of two hurricanes that reduced usage in third quarter last year. Industrial sales in third quarter 2009 for large customers reflected continued weaknesses in chemicals and primary metals. Small and mid-sized industrial customers continue to be the industrial segments most negatively affected by weakness in the economy. Increased sales also included contributions from the warmer-than-normal weather particularly from mid June to early July, as reflected in July billed sales, compared to near-normal weather in third quarter 2008.
Entergy Nuclear earned $200.4 million, or $1.02 per share, on an as-reported basis and $210.7 million, or $1.07 per share, on an operational basis in third quarter 2009, compared to $205.3 million, or $1.05 per share, on as-reported and operational bases in third quarter 2008. Entergy Nuclears operational earnings increased as a result of higher revenue from higher generation due to fewer planned and unplanned outage days in the current quarter and increased other income primarily associated with decommissioning trust funds. An impairment was recognized on Entergy Nuclears decommissioning trust funds in third quarter 2008 versus no impairments in the current period where gains were recognized on investment transactions. Higher operation and maintenance expense during the quarter and the absence of the 2008 adjustment reducing income tax expense (associated with Massachusetts state tax law) were partially offsetting. Finally, as-reported results were further reduced by the special item for spin-off dis-synergies.
 
Entergys Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business incurred a loss of $4.8 million, or two cents per share, on both as-reported and operational bases in third quarter 2009 compared to a loss of $21.0 million, or 11 cents per share, a year ago. Business results improved due primarily to lower income tax expense due to the absence of a 2008 adjustment associated with the redemption of an investment that had the effect of increasing income tax expense.
 
Entergy is reaffirming 2009 earnings guidance in the range of $6.20 to $6.80 per share on an operational basis. As-reported guidance ranges from $6.00 to $6.60 per share and incorporates spin-off expenses for outside services through June 30, 2009, in addition to projected dis-synergies associated with the spin-off of Entergys non-utility nuclear business and plans to enter into a nuclear services joint venture.
 
The announced spin-off of Entergys non-utility nuclear business will establish a new independent, publicly traded company, Enexus Energy Corporation. In addition, Entergy and Enexus intend to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, with equal ownership, with the joint venture being named EquaGen LLC. The state regulatory decisions and financing continue as the critical path items in finalizing the spin-off transaction. The transactions are subject to various approvals. Regarding financing, on Oct. 1, 2009, Enexus executed Amendment No. 1 to its credit agreement dated Dec. 23, 2008, increasing the total facility amount to $1.2 billion from $1.175 billion. Enexus will not be permitted to draw down the facility until certain customary and transactional conditions are met on or prior to July 1, 2010. Final terms of the transactions and spin-off completion are subject to the approval of the Entergy Board of Directors.
 
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.7 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $13 billion and approximately 14,700 employees.
 
Additional information regarding Entergys quarterly results of operations, regulatory proceedings, planned spin-off of its non-utility nuclear business and other operations is available in Entergys investor news release dated Oct. 22, 2009, a copy of which has been filed today with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 8-K and is available on Entergys investor relations Web site at .
www.entergy.com/investor_relations
 
 
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in (i) Entergys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, (ii) Entergys Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31 and June 30, 2009, and (iii) Entergys other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (b) the uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike and the January 2009 Arkansas ice storm and recovery of costs associated with restoration, and (c) the following transactional factors (in addition to others described elsewhere in this news release and in subsequent securities filings): (i) risks inherent in the contemplated spin-off, joint venture and related transactions (including the level of debt to be incurred by Enexus Energy Corporation and the terms and costs related thereto), (ii) legislative and regulatory actions, and (iii) conditions of the capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements.  Entergy cannot provide any assurances that the spin-off or any of the proposed transactions related thereto will be completed, nor can it give assurances as to the terms on which such transactions will be consummated.  The transaction is subject to certain conditions precedent, including regulatory approvals and the final approval by the Board of Directors of Entergy.
 
Appendix A provides a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
 
 
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Releases"), contain non-GAAP financial measures.  Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP.  Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Releases and the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
Certain non-GAAP measures in the Releases could differ from GAAP only in that the figure or ratio states or includes operational earnings per share.  Operational earnings per share is presented for each of Entergy's major business segments as well as on a consolidated basis.  Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the effect of "special items."  Special items reflect the effect on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses.  In the periods covered by the Releases, Entergy reported special items for expenses and dis-synergies incurred in connection with the plan to pursue the separation of Entergy's non-utility nuclear business and to enter into a nuclear services joint venture.  In addition, other financial measures including return on average invested capital (ROIC), return on average common equity (ROE), and net margin are included on both an operational and as-reported basis.  In each case, the metrics defined as "operational" would exclude the effect of special items as defined above.  Management believes financial metrics calculated using operational earnings provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of Entergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector.  Entergy management frequently references these non-GAAP financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
 
Other non-GAAP measures, total gross liquidity, net debt to net capital ratio, and net debt ratio including off-balance sheet liabilities are measures Entergy uses internally for management and board discussions, and cash budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business.  Entergy believes the above data provides useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial flexibility, and assists investors in comparing the company's cash availability to the cash availability of others in the energy sector.
 
The non-GAAP financial measures and other reported adjusted items in Entergy's Releases are used in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  These non-GAAP financial measures should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.  These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  Investors are strongly encouraged to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.  Non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized; therefore, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names.
 
 
 
 


