FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20100405091843.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
 
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
 
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On April 5, 2010, Entergy Corporation (Entergy) issued two releases, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference, announcing that, effective immediately, it plans to unwind the business infrastructure associated with the proposed separate non-utility nuclear generation and nuclear services companies while it evaluates and works to preserve its legal rights.  As a result of this decision, Entergy also outlined capital return plans, including an increased quarterly dividend, as well as updated long-term financial outlooks.
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events
 
On April 5, 2010, Entergy announced that, effective immediately, it plans to unwind the business infrastructure associated with the proposed separate non-utility nuclear generation and nuclear services companies while it evaluates and works to preserve its legal rights.  In connection with the plans to unwind the business infrastructure, Entergy also announced that it was increasing the quarterly dividend on its common shares to $0.83 per share and that it expected to execute on the $750 million share repurchase program authorized in the fourth quarter 2009 by Entergy's Board of Directors.  The amount of repurchases may vary as a result of material changes in business results or capital spending or new investment opportunities.
 
 
In this Item 8.01 of this Current Report on Form 8-K, and from time to time, Entergy makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
 
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in Entergys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, and Entergys other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (b) uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike and the January 2009 Arkansas ice storm and recovery of costs associated with restoration, and (c) legislative and regulatory actions, and conditions of the capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements, in addition to other factors described in this Current Report and in subsequent securities filings.
 
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Entergy Corporation
 
 
By:   /s/ Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
 
Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
Senior Vice President and
Chief Accounting Officer
 
Dated: April 5, 2010
 

INVESTOR NEWS
 
April 5, 2010
Exhibit 99.1
 
NEW ORLEANS  Entergy Corporation (NYSE: ETR) today announced that effective immediately it plans to unwind the business infrastructure associated with the proposed separate non-utility nuclear generation and nuclear services companies while it evaluates and works to preserve its legal rights.
 
Given the potential for the legal process to continue for an extended period, Entergy made the decision to unwind the internal organizations created for Enexus Energy Corporation and EquaGen LLC to eliminate dis-synergies related to the spin-off and redirect its efforts into other strategies as soon as possible in 2010.  As a result of this decision, Entergy outlined capital return plans as well as updated long-term financial outlooks consistent with the current business structure.
 
We are pleased the Board took action to return cash to our owners who have been patient during this protracted period of uncertainty, said .  While we do not have an order from the New York State Public Service Commission, we believe there are serious questions with regard to the basis for the Commissions March 25 decision to reject the spin-off transaction given the dialogue at the Commissions meetings over the last few months and will preserve all of our legal rights. That being said, we will leave that to the attorneys to figure out.  We are moving forward on the business side to create and capture value unrealized today.
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergys chairman and chief executive officer
th
 
Our tested business model focuses on portfolio management and operational excellence. Entergy has produced significant value by executing consistent with a market-based point-of-view through multiple changes in strategic direction over the last 11 years; in fact the highest total shareholder return in the industry over that period.  Going forward, we will continue to apply this business model supported by strong cash flows and disciplined risk management to advance our financial and business aspirations.
 
Capital Return Plans
In fourth quarter 2009, Entergy Corporations Board of Directors authorized a new $750 million share repurchase program supported by the underlying business operations whether or not the spin-off transaction was completed.  The company expects to execute on this $750 million share repurchase authority.  The amount of repurchases may vary as a result of material changes in business results or capital spending or new investment opportunities.  Further, this past weekend, the Board declared a quarterly dividend of $0.83 per common share payable June 1 to stockholders of record on May 12, reflecting the first increase in its quarterly common stock dividend since July 2007.
 
Financial Implications
In connection with the business unwind, Entergy estimated a total potential charge could range from $0.40 to $0.45 per share to reflect the write-off of capitalized costs incurred to date and certain other costs to be recorded in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  The charge would be reported as a special item.  This charge also includes the previously identified special items for spin-off dis-synergies and expenses for outside services provided to pursue the spin-off in 2010.  Entergy will immediately take steps to eliminate spin-off dis-synergies as soon as possible during 2010.
 
Overarching Financial Aspiration
Entergy continues to aspire to deliver superior value to owners as measured by total shareholder return.  The company believes top-quartile total shareholder returns are achieved by:
 
Long-term Financial Outlook
Over the next five years, Entergy believes it offers a competitive utility investment opportunity combined with a valuable option represented by a unique, clean, non-utility nuclear generation business located in attractive power markets.  The expected current long-term financial outlook includes the following:
 
Earnings:
 
Capital deployment:
 
Credit quality:
 
 
 
The long-term financial outlook should be considered in association with 2014 financial sensitivities as shown in
Table 1
.  These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in earnings or Adjusted EBITDA resulting from changes in business drivers.  Estimated impacts shown in
Table 1
 are intended to be illustrative.
 
 
Teleconference
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10:00 a.m. CT on Monday, April 5, 2010, with access by telephone, (719) 325-2247, confirmation code 8490199.  The call can also be accessed via Entergys Web site at .  A replay of the teleconference will be available through April 12, 2010 thereafter by dialing (719) 457-0820 confirmation code 8490199.  The replay will also be available on Entergys Web site at .
www.entergy.com
,
www.entergy.com
 
 
 
 
 
*******************************************************************************************************************************
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in Entergys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, and Entergys other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (b) uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike and the January 2009 Arkansas ice storm and recovery of costs associated with restoration, and (c) legislative and regulatory actions, and conditions of the capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements, in addition to other factors described elsewhere in this release and in subsequent securities filings.

Entergy
639 Loyola Avenue
New Orleans, LA  70113
 
 
News
Release
 
 
 
Exhibit 99.2
 
New Orleans, La.  Entergy Corporation (NYSE: ETR) today announced that effective immediately it plans to unwind the business infrastructure associated with the proposed separate non-utility nuclear generation and nuclear services companies while it evaluates and works to preserve its legal rights.
 
Given the potential for the legal process to continue for an extended period, Entergy made the decision to unwind the internal organizations created for Enexus Energy Corporation and EquaGen LLC to eliminate dis-synergies related to the spin-off and redirect its efforts into other strategies as soon as possible in 2010.  As a result of this decision, Entergy outlined capital return plans as well as updated long-term financial outlooks consistent with the current business structure.
 
We are pleased the Board took action to return cash to our owners who have been patient during this protracted period of uncertainty, said .  While we do not have an order from the New York State Public Service Commission, we believe there are serious questions with regard to the basis for the Commissions March 25 decision to reject the spin-off transaction given the dialogue at the Commissions meetings over the last few months and will preserve all of our legal rights.  That being said, we will leave that to the attorneys to figure out.  We are moving forward on the business side to create and capture value unrealized today.
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergys chairman and chief executive officer
th
 
 
 
 
 
Entergy News Release: Entergy Raises Dividend, Provides Strategic Guidance
Page 2
April 5, 2010
 
Our tested business model focuses on portfolio management and operational excellence. Entergy has produced significant value by executing consistent with a market-based point-of-view through multiple changes in strategic direction over the last 11 years; in fact the highest total shareholder return in the industry over that period.  Going forward, we will continue to apply this business model supported by strong cash flows and disciplined risk management to advance our financial and business aspirations.
 
In fourth quarter 2009, Entergy Corporations Board of Directors authorized a new $750 million share repurchase program supported by the underlying business operations whether or not the spin-off transaction was completed.  The company expects to execute on this $750 million share repurchase authority.  The amount of repurchases may vary as a result of material changes in business results or capital spending or new investment opportunities.  Further, this past weekend, the Board declared a quarterly dividend of 83 cents per common share payable June 1 to stockholders of record on May 12, reflecting the first increase in its quarterly common stock dividend since July 2007.
 
In connection with the business unwind, Entergy estimated a total potential charge could range from 40 to 45 cents per share to reflect the write-off of capitalized costs incurred to date and certain other costs to be recorded in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  The charge would be reported as a special item.  This charge also includes the previously identified special items for spin-off dis-synergies and expenses for outside services provided to pursue the spin-off in 2010.  Entergy will immediately take steps to eliminate spin-off dis-synergies as soon as possible during 2010.
 
 
 
 
 
Entergy News Release: Entergy Raises Dividend, Provides Strategic Guidance
Page 3
April 5, 2010
 
 
Entergy continues to aspire to deliver superior value to owners as measured by total shareholder return.  The company believes top-quartile total shareholder returns are achieved by:
Over the next five years, Entergy believes it offers a competitive utility investment opportunity combined with a valuable option represented by a unique, clean, non-utility nuclear generation business located in attractive power markets.  The expected current long-term financial outlook includes the following:
Earnings:
 
 
 
 
 
Entergy News Release: Entergy Raises Dividend, Provides Strategic Guidance
Page 4
April 5, 2010
 
 
Earnings (continued):
Capital deployment:
 
Adjusted EBITDA, a non-GAAP financial measure, is defined as earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization and interest and dividend income, excluding decommissioning
1
   expense and other than temporary impairment losses on decommissioning trust fund assets.
 
 
 
 
 
Entergy News Release: Entergy Raises Dividend, Provides Strategic Guidance
Page 5
April 5, 2010
 
 
Credit quality:
 
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10:00 a.m. CT on Monday, April 5, 2010, with access by telephone, (719) 325-2247, confirmation code 8490199.  The call can also be accessed via Entergys Web site at www.entergy.com.  A replay of the teleconference will be available through April 12, 2010 thereafter by dialing (719) 457-0820, confirmation code 8490199.  The replay will also be available on Entergys Web site at www.entergy.com.
 
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations.  Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.7 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas.  Entergy has annual revenues of more than $10 billion and over 15,000 employees.
 
Additional information regarding Entergys updated long-term financial outlook is available in Entergys investor news release dated April 5, 2010, a copy of which is available on Entergys investor relations Web site at .
www.entergy.com/investor_relations
 
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
 
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in Entergys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, and Entergys other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (b) uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike and the January 2009 Arkansas ice storm and recovery of costs associated with restoration, and (c) legislative and regulatory actions, and conditions of the capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements, in addition to other factors described elsewhere in this release and in subsequent securities filings.


