FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20100121123137.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
[ ]      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibits, is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02.
 
On January 21, 2010, Entergy Corporation issued a public announcement, which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  January 21, 2010

Entergy Corporation
639 Loyola Avenue
New Orleans, LA 70113
 
News
Release
                   
                                                                       
  
                                                      
Exhibit 99.1
New Orleans, La. - Entergy Corporation (NYSE: ETR) today indicated that it expects fourth quarter 2009 as-reported earnings of approximately $1.63 per share and operational earnings of approximately $1.74 per share compared to as-reported results of $0.89 per share and operational results of $0.99 per share in fourth quarter 2008.
 
As-reported results are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and are comprised of operational earnings (described below) and special items.  As-reported earnings in fourth quarter 2009 include a special item at Entergy Nuclear for spin-off dis-synergies.  Utility, Parent & Other fourth quarter results in both 2008 and 2009 include a special item for expenses for outside services to pursue the non-utility nuclear spin-off.  In addition, each business reflects a special item in 2008 for the effects of the unsuccessful remarketing of the Equity Units in February 2009.
 
The increase in fourth quarter 2009 operational earnings was due primarily to higher results at Utility, Parent & Other, partially offset by lower earnings at Entergy Nuclear.  Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business earnings also improved over fourth quarter 2008.
 
As indicated below, income tax expense is cited as a quarter over quarter variance explanation across the different businesses.  On an overall company basis, the fourth quarter 2009 effective tax rate was comparable to the rate in fourth quarter 2008.
 
Higher Utility, Parent & Other operational earnings in fourth quarter 2009 were due primarily to lower income tax expense, as well as lower non-fuel operation and maintenance expense primarily resulting from the absence of regulatory charges associated with rate proceedings at Entergy Arkansas, Inc. in 2008.  Also contributing to the earnings improvement was higher Utility net revenue, including increased sales volume for all customer classes.  Weather during the quarter was near normal.
 
The quarter-over-quarter decrease in operational earnings at Entergy Nuclear was due primarily to higher income tax and non-fuel operation and maintenance expense.  Partially offsetting lower results was higher net revenue, with both pricing and generation driving the increase.  Increased generation is attributed to the absence of scheduled refueling outages in the fall of 2009, compared to 32 days of scheduled refueling outages in fourth quarter 2008.  Higher other income associated with the decommissioning trusts also served as a partial offset to decreased earnings.
 
Entergys Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business earnings increased during the quarter due primarily to lower income tax expense.
 
Entergy affirmed its previously issued 2010 earnings guidance ranges assuming business as usual operations, including $6.15 to $6.95 per share for as-reported earnings guidance and $6.40 to $7.20 per share for operational earnings guidance.
 
A teleconference will be held at 10:00 a.m. CT on Tuesday, February 2, 2010, to discuss Entergys fourth quarter 2009 earnings announcement, and may be accessed by dialing (719) 457-2080, confirmation code 6584600, no more than 15 minutes prior to the start of the call.  The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergys Web site at .  A replay of the teleconference will be available for seven days thereafter by dialing (719) 457-0820, confirmation code 6584600.
www.entergy.com
 
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.7 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas.  Entergy has annual revenues of more than $13 billion and approximately 14,700 employees.
 
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in
 
(i) Entergys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, (ii) Entergys Form 10-Q  for the quarters ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2009, and (iii) Entergys other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (b) the uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike and the January 2009 Arkansas ice storm and recovery of costs associated with restoration, and (c) the following transactional factors (in addition to others described elsewhere in this news release and in subsequent securities filings): (i) risks inherent in the contemplated spin-off, joint venture and related transactions (including the level of debt to be incurred by Enexus Energy Corporation and the terms and costs related thereto), (ii) legislative and regulatory actions, and (iii) conditions of the capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements.  Entergy cannot provide any assurances that the spin-off or any of the proposed transactions related thereto will be completed, nor can it give assurances as to the terms on which such transactions will be consummated.  The transaction is subject to certain conditions precedent, including regulatory approvals and the final approval by the Board of Directors of Entergy.

Exhibit 99.2
 
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Pre-Release") contains the non-GAAP financial measure of operational earnings per share.  Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Pre-Release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "special items".  Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses.  Management believes the discussion of operational earnings provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of Entergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector. Entergy management frequently references operational earnings in its decision-making, using that measure to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
 
The non-GAAP information in the Pre-Release is used in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  The non-GAAP information should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.  The non-GAAP information reflects an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  Investors are strongly encouraged to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.  Non-GAAP information is not standardized; therefore, it may not be possible to compare this information with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names


