FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20101021074441.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
On October 21, 2010, Entergy Corporation issued two public announcements, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto (the Earnings Releases) and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the third quarter 2010.  The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 October 21, 2010, Entergy Corporation issued the Earnings Releases, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the third quarter 2010.  The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01.
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Entergy Corporation
 
 
By:
/s/ Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
Senior Vice President and
Chief Accounting Officer
 
Dated: October 21, 2010
 

INVESTOR NEWS
Exhibit 99.1
October 21, 2010
NEW ORLEANS  Entergy Corporation (NYSE: ETR) reported third quarter 2010 earnings of $2.62 per share on an as-reported basis and $2.76 per share on an operational basis, as shown in Table 1 below.  A more detailed discussion of quarterly results begins on page 2 of this release.
Operational Earnings Highlights for Third Quarter 2010
Despite challenging times, near-record warm temperatures boosted Entergys third quarter earnings per share to the highest of any quarterly period in company history, said .  Even with this achievement, we continue to focus on the building blocks for delivering long-term value  safety, operational excellence, and meeting regulatory expectations  in both the Utility and Entergy Wholesale Commodities businesses as well as maintaining solid financial strength and disciplined risk management.
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergys chairman and chief executive
officer
 
Entergys business highlights include the following:
 
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10 a.m. CT on Thursday, October 21, 2010, with access by telephone, 719-457-2080, confirmation code 5590047.  The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergys website at .  A replay of the teleconference will be available through October 28, 2010, by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 5590047.  The replay will also be available on Entergys website at .
www.entergy.com
www.entergy.com
Consolidated Earnings
Table 2 provides a comparative summary of consolidated earnings per share for third quarter and year-to-date 2010 versus 2009, including a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.  Utilitys earnings increased quarter-over-quarter as a result of higher net revenue due primarily to increased sales volumes across all customer classes, including significantly warmer-than-normal weather, and the effect of previous rate actions.  Utility net revenue was partially offset by higher non-fuel operation and maintenance expense.  Entergy Nuclears third quarter 2010 earnings decreased as a result of lower net revenue attributable to lower generation, resulting from additional planned and unplanned outage days, and higher non-fuel operation and maintenance expense.  ; A lower effective tax rate provided a partial offset at Entergy Nuclear.  Parent and Others results were higher in the current period compared to a year ago due primarily to lower income tax expense on Parent & Other activities.  Entergys results for the current period also reflect the positive effect of accretion associated with the companys share repurchase programs.
Detailed earnings variance analysis is included in Appendix A-1 and Appendix A-2 to this release.  In addition, Appendix A-3 provides details of special items shown in Table 2 above.
Consolidated Net Cash Flow Provided by Operating Activities
Entergys net cash flow provided by operating activities in third quarter 2010 was $1,697 million compared to $993 million in third quarter 2009.  The overall quarterly increase was due primarily to:
Partially offsetting these increases was higher working capital requirements at the Utility.  In addition, intercompany tax payments contributed to line of business variances, but were largely offsetting between Utility, Entergy Nuclear, and Parent & Other.
 
Table 3 provides the components of net cash flow provided by operating activities contributed by each business with quarterly and year-to-date comparisons.
In third quarter 2010, Utilitys as-reported and operational earnings were $1.78 per share compared to $1.50 per share on the same bases in third quarter 2009.  The Utility earnings increase in the current quarter is due primarily to higher net revenue as a result of both increased sales across all customer classes and rate adjustments associated with base rate cases at Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Texas implemented during the current quarter and prior year rate adjustments at Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana under their formula rate plans.  Partially offsetting higher net revenue was higher non-fuel operation and maintenance expense driven by increased compensation-related expenses and higher outage costs at generating units. The net effect of lower depreciation expense, lower other income, and higher income tax expense were also partially offsetting. New depreciation rates established in the Arkansas rate case settlement contributed to the reduction in depreciation expense in the current quarter.  Other income decreased as a result of the absence of income from storm carrying charges and a gain on a land sale recorded in third quarter 2009.  Higher income tax expense was primarily due to the net effect of consolidated income tax adjustments across the Entergy companies, partially offset by state income tax benefits realized in connection with storm cost financings in Louisiana.
Electricity usage, in gigawatt-hour sales by customer segment, is included in Table4.  Current quarter sales reflect the following:
 
The industrial customer segment reflected strong sales growth on continuing signs of economic recovery, which was also evident in the residential and commercial classes.  In addition, residential and commercial sales benefited from significantly warmer-than-normal weather.  The improvement in industrial sales in the third quarter 2010 was driven by inventory restocking and strong exports with the chemicals, refining, and miscellaneous manufacturing sectors leading the improvement.
 
Table 4 provides a comparative summary of the Utilitys operational performance measures.
 
Appendix B provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
 
Entergy Nuclear earned $0.71 per share on an as-reported basis in third quarter 2010, compared to as-reported earnings of $1.02 per share in third quarter 2009.  On an operational basis, third quarter 2010 Entergy Nuclear earnings were $0.85 per share versus $1.07 per share in the third quarter of the prior year.  Entergy Nuclears operational earnings decreased as a result of lower net revenue due primarily to lower generation resulting from additional planned and unplanned outages.  Also, contributing to the decrease in earnings was higher non-fuel operation and maintenance expense due to higher compensation-related expenses.  Partially offsetting these decreases was lower income tax expense, which was primarily due to adjustments in an income tax reserve and the net effect of consolidate d income tax adjustments.
Table 5 provides a comparative summary of Entergy Nuclears operational performance measures.
 
Table 6 provides capacity and generation sold forward projections for Entergy Nuclear.
 
Parent & Other reported earnings of $0.13 per share on an as-reported basis and an operational basis in third quarter 2010 compared to losses of $(0.20) on an as-reported basis and $(0.17) on an operational basis in third quarter 2009.  Lower income tax expense on Parent & Other activities was the primary factor driving results for the quarter.  The current quarter reflects an adjustment in income tax reserves resulting from a favorable Tax Court ruling.  The net effect of consolidated income tax adjustments also contributed.
Earnings Guidance
Entergy affirmed its earnings guidance ranges of $5.95 to $6.80 per share on an as-reported basis and $6.40 to $7.20 per share on an operational basis.  On April 15, 2010, Entergy revised its 2010 as-reported earnings guidance to a range of $5.95 to $6.80 per share from $6.15 to $6.95 per share to reflect the potential charge in connection with the previously announced business unwind of the internal organizations created for Enexus Energy Corporation and EquaGen LLC.  This charge will be classified as a special item in 2010, and therefore is excluded from the operational earnings per share guidance range.  The total potential charge estimated at $0.40 to $0.45 per share, as of April 2010, includes previously identified special items for spin-off dis-synergies and expenses for outside services provided to pursue the spin-off, for which $0.25 per share had already been reflected in as-reported earnings guidance.  Efforts to eliminate spin-off dis-synergies are well under way, with expectations to eliminate these costs during 2010.
Year-over-year changes are shown as point estimates and are applied to 2009 earnings to compute the 2010 guidance midpoint.  Drivers for the 2010 operational guidance range are listed separately.  Because there is a range of possible outcomes associated with each earnings driver, a range is applied to the calculated guidance midpoints to produce Entergys guidance ranges for as-reported and operational earnings.  The current 2010 earnings guidance is detailed in Table 7 below.
 
Key assumptions supporting 2010 earnings guidance are as follows:
Utility, Parent & Other
Entergy Nuclear
Share Repurchase Program
Effective Income Tax Rate
Revised 2010 As-Reported Earnings Guidance Range (April 2010)
Earnings guidance for 2010 should be considered in association with earnings sensitivities as shown in Table 8.  These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in operational earnings resulting from changes in various revenue and expense drivers.  Traditionally, the most significant variables for earnings drivers are utility sales for Utility, Parent & Other and energy prices for Entergy Nuclear.  The broader earnings guidance range for 2010 also takes into consideration the following:
Estimated annual impacts shown in Table 8 are intended to be indicative rather than precise guidance.
(
g
)  Based on 2009 average fully diluted shares outstanding of approximately 196 million.
 
Five appendices are presented in this section as follows:
Appendix A-1 and Appendix A-2 provides details of third quarter and year-to-date 2010 vs. 2009 as-reported and operational earnings variance analysis for Utility, Entergy Nuclear, Parent & Other, and Consolidated.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix A-3 lists special items by business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons.  Amounts are shown on both earnings per share and net income bases.  Special items are those events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses.  Special items are included in as-reported earnings per share consistent with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but are excluded from operational earnings per share.  As a result, operational earnings per share is considered a non-GAAP measure.
 
 
 
(
z
)    Applies to sales made under Entergys FERC-jurisdictional Open Access Transmission Tariff (OATT).
Appendix C-1 provides comparative financial performance measures for the current quarter.  Appendix C-2 provides historical financial performance measures and operating performance metrics for the trailing eight quarters.  Financial performance measures in both tables include those calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), as well as those that are considered non-GAAP measures.
As-reported measures are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of net income, including special items.  Operational measures are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational net income, which excludes the impact of special items.  A reconciliation of operational measures to as-reported measures is provided .
in
Appendix E
 
Appendix D provides definitions of certain operational performance measures, as well as GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, all of which are referenced in this release.
Financial measures defined in the below table include measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (GAAP), as well as non-GAAP measures.  Non-GAAP measures are included in this release in order to provide metrics that remove the effect of less routine financial impacts from commonly used financial metrics.
-1 and -2 provide reconciliations of various non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in this release to their most comparable GAAP measure.
Appendix E
Appendix E
*********************************************************************************************************************************
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including          (a) those factors discussed in:  (i) Entergys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009; (ii) Entergys Form 10-Qs for the quarters ended March 31, 2010 and June 30, 2010; and (iii) Entergys other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; (b) uncertainties associated with rate proceedings, formula rate plans and other cost recovery mechanisms; (c) uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of major storms and recover related restoration costs; (d) nuclear operating and re gulatory risks; and (e) legislative and regulatory actions, and conditions in commodity and capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements, in addition to other factors described elsewhere in this release and in subsequent securities filings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Entergy
639 Loyola Avenue
New Orleans, LA  70113
 
News
Release
Exhibit 99.2
New Orleans, La.  Entergy Corporation (NYSE:ETR) today reported third quarter 2010 as-reported earnings of $492.9 million, or $2.62 per share, compared with $455.2 million, or $2.32 per share, for third quarter 2009. On an operational basis, Entergys third quarter 2010 earnings were $518.1 million, or $2.76 per share, compared with $470.7 million, or $2.40 per share, in third quarter 2009.
 
         *GAAP refers to United States generally accepted accounting principles.
 
Despite challenging times, near-record warm temperatures boosted Entergys third quarter earnings per share to the highest of any quarterly period in company history, said . Even with this achievement, we continue to focus on the building blocks for delivering long-term value  safety, operational excellence, and meeting regulatory expectations  in both the Utility and Entergy Wholesale Commodities businesses as well as maintaining solid financial strength and disciplined risk management.
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergys chairman and chief executive officer
 
 
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10 a.m. CT on Thursday, Oct. 21, 2010, with access by telephone, 719-457-2080, confirmation code 5590047. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergys website at . A replay of the teleconference will be available through Oct. 28, 2010, by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 5590047. The replay will also be available on Entergys website at .
www.entergy.com
www.entergy.com
 
In third quarter 2010, Utilitys as-reported and operational earnings were $333.6 million, or $1.78 per share, compared to $294.8 million, or $1.50 per share, on the same bases in third quarter 2009. The Utility earnings increase in the current quarter is due primarily to higher net revenue as a result of both increased sales across all customer classes and rate adjustments associated with base rate cases at Entergy Arkansas and Entergy Texas implemented during the current quarter and prior year rate adjustments at Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and Entergy Louisiana under their formula rate plans. Partially offsetting higher net revenue was higher non-fuel operation and maintenance expense driven by increased compensation-related expenses and higher outage costs at generating units. The net effect of lower depreciation expense, lo wer other income, and higher income tax expense were also partially offsetting. New depreciation rates established in the Arkansas rate case settlement contributed to the reduction in depreciation expense in the current quarter. Other income decreased as a result of the absence of income from storm carrying charges and a gain on a land sale recorded in third quarter 2009. Higher income tax expense was primarily due to the net effect of consolidated income tax adjustments across the Entergy companies, partially offset by state income tax benefits realized in connection with storm cost financings in Louisiana.
 
Residential sales in third quarter 2010, on a weather-adjusted basis, increased 0.9 percent compared to third quarter 2009. Commercial and governmental sales, on a weather-adjusted basis, increased 1.7 percent quarter over quarter. Industrial sales in the third quarter increased 8.5 percent compared to the same quarter of 2009.
 
The industrial customer segment reflected strong sales growth on continuing signs of economic recovery, which was also evident in the residential and commercial classes. In addition, residential and commercial sales benefited from significantly warmer-than-normal weather. The improvement in industrial sales in the third quarter 2010 was driven by inventory restocking and strong exports with the chemicals, refining, and miscellaneous manufacturing sectors leading the improvement.
 
Entergy Nuclear earned $133.9 million, or 71 cents per share, on an as-reported basis in third quarter 2010, compared to as-reported earnings of $200.4 million, or $1.02 per share, in third quarter 2009. On an operational basis, third quarter 2010 Entergy Nuclears earnings were $159.1 million, or 85 cents per share, versus $210.7 million, or $1.07 per share, in the third quarter of the prior year. Entergy Nuclears operational earnings decreased as a result of lower net revenue due primarily to lower generation resulting from additional planned and unplanned outages. Also, contributing to the decrease in earnings was higher non-fuel operation and maintenance expense due to higher compensation-related expenses. Partially offsetting these decreases was lower income tax expense, which was primarily due to adjustments in an inc ome tax reserve and the net effect of consolidated income tax adjustments.
 
Parent & Other reported earnings of $25.4 million, or 13 cents per share, on both as-reported and operational bases in third quarter 2010 compared to losses of $40.0 million, or 20 cents per share on an as-reported basis and $34.8 million, or 17 cents per share on an operational basis in third quarter 2009. Lower income tax expense on Parent & Other activities was the primary factor driving results for the quarter. The current quarter reflects an adjustment in income tax reserves resulting from a favorable Tax Court ruling. The net effect of consolidated income tax adjustments also contributed.
 
Entergy affirmed its earnings guidance ranges of $5.95 to $6.80 per share on an as-reported basis and $6.40 to $7.20 per share on an operational basis. On April 15, 2010, Entergy revised its 2010 as-reported earnings guidance to a range of $5.95 to $6.80 per share from $6.15 to $6.95 per share to reflect the potential charge in connection with the previously announced business unwind of the internal organizations created for Enexus Energy Corporation and EquaGen LLC. This charge will be classified as a special item in 2010, and therefore is excluded from the operational earnings per share guidance range. The total potential charge estimated at $0.40 to $0.45 per share as of April 2010, includes previously identified special items for spin-off dis-synergies and expenses for outside services provided to pursue the spin-off, for which $0.2 5 per share had already been reflected in as-reported earnings guidance. Efforts to eliminate spin-off dis-synergies are well under way, with expectations to eliminate these costs during 2010.
 
Additional information regarding Entergys quarterly results of operations, regulatory proceedings and other operations is available in Entergys investor news release dated Oct. 21, 2010, a copy of which has been filed today with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 8-K and is available on Entergys investor relations website at .
www.entergy.com/investor_relations
 
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in: (i) Entergys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009; (ii) Entergys Form 10-Qs for the quarters ended March 31, 2010 and June 30, 2010; and (iii) Entergys other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; (b) uncertainties associated with rate proceedings, formula rate plans and other cost recovery mechanisms; (c) uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of major storms and recover related restoration costs; (d) nuclear operating and regulatory risks; and (e) legislative and regulatory actions, and conditions in commodity and capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements, in addition to other factors described elsewhere in this release and in subsequent securities filings.
Appendix A provides a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.

Exhibit 99.3
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Releases"), contain non-GAAP financial measures.  Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP.  Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Releases and the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
Certain non-GAAP measures in the Releases could differ from GAAP only in that the figure or ratio states or includes operational earnings per share.  Operational earnings per share is presented for each of Entergy's major business segments as well as on a consolidated basis.  Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the effect of "special items."  Special items reflect the effect on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses.  In addition, other financial measures including return on average invested capital, return on average common equity, and net margin are included on both an operational and as-reported basis.  In each case, the metrics defined as "operational" wou ld exclude the effect of special items as defined above.  Management believes financial metrics calculated using operational earnings provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of Entergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector.  Entergy management frequently references these non-GAAP financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
 
Other non-GAAP measures, total gross liquidity; debt to capital, excluding securitization debt; net debt to net capital, excluding securitization debt; and net debt including off-balance sheet liabilities, excluding securitization debt; are measures Entergy uses internally for management and board discussions and cash budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business.  Entergy believes the above data provides useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial flexibility, and assists investors in comparing the company's cash availability to the cash availability of others in the energy sector.
 
The non-GAAP financial measures and other reported adjusted items in Entergy's Releases are used in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  These non-GAAP financial measures should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.  These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  Investors are strongly encouraged to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.  Non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized; therefore, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names.
 


