FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20101015115435.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
[ ]      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibits, is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02.
On October 15, 2010, Entergy Corporation issued a public announcement, which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Entergy Corporation
639 Loyola Avenue
New Orleans, LA 70113
 
News
Release
 
 
New Orleans, La.  Entergy Corporation (NYSE: ETR) today indicated that it expects third quarter 2010 as-reported earnings of approximately $2.61 per share and operational earnings of approximately $2.75 per share compared to as-reported results of $2.32 per share and operational results of $2.40 per share in third quarter 2009. Entergy also affirmed its previously issued earnings guidance ranges for 2010.
 
As-reported results are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and are comprised of operational earnings (described below) and special items. The special items included in both third quarter 2009 and 2010 as-reported results are due to expenses associated with the previously planned spin-off of the non-utility nuclear business. Charges in 2010 also include costs in connection with the unwind of the business infrastructure created for Enexus Energy Corporation and EquaGen LLC announced in April.
 
The third quarter 2010 earnings improvement was driven by higher earnings at Utility and Parent & Other, which was partially offset by lower results at Entergy Nuclear. Third quarter 2010 earnings also reflected accretion from Entergys share repurchase programs.
 
The increase in Utilitys earnings in third quarter 2010 was due primarily to higher net revenue, which was partially offset by an increase in operation and maintenance expense. Higher Utility net revenue was driven by increased sales volumes across all customer classes, including the effect of significantly warmer-than-normal weather, as well as the effect of previous rate actions. In addition, Utility results reflected a reduction in depreciation expense, lower other income and a higher effective tax rate compared to the third quarter 2009.
 
The quarter-over-quarter decrease in operational earnings at Entergy Nuclear was driven by lower net revenue and higher operation and maintenance expense.  Decreased net revenue was attributable to lower generation due to additional planned and unplanned outage days, including 18 refueling days in September 2010 at the J.A. FitzPatrick plant. No refueling outages occurred at the non-utility nuclear plants in the same period last year. A lower effective tax rate at Entergy Nuclear in the current quarter provided a partial offset to these items.
 
Parent & Others results improved during the quarter due primarily to lower income tax expense on Parent & Other activities.
 
Entergy affirmed its earnings guidance ranges of $5.95 to $6.80 per share on an as-reported basis and $6.40 to $7.20 per share on an operational basis for 2010. As-reported earnings guidance, which was revised in April 2010, includes a special item for the potential charge in connection with the previously announced business unwind of the internal organizations created for Enexus and EquaGen as well as expenses for spin-off dis-synergies and outside services to pursue the spin-off.
           A teleconference will be held at 10 a.m. CT on Thursday, Oct. 21, 2010, to discuss Entergys third quarter 2010 earnings announcement, and may be accessed by dialing (719) 457-2080, confirmation code 5590047, no more than 15 minutes prior to the start of the call. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergys website at . A replay of the teleconference will be available for seven days thereafter by dialing (719) 457-0820, confirmation code 5590047.
www.entergy.com
 
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.7 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $10 billion and more than 15,000 employees.
 
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in:  (i) Entergys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009,
(ii) Entergys Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2010 and June 30, 2010, and (iii) Entergys other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (b) uncertainties associated with rate proceedings, formula rate plans and other cost recovery mechanisms, (c) uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of major storms and recover relat ed restoration costs, (d) nuclear operating and regulatory risks, and (e) legislative and regulatory actions, and conditions in commodity and capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements, in addition to other factors described elsewhere in this release and in subsequent securities filings.

Exhibit 99.2
 
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Pre-Release") contains the non-GAAP financial measure of operational earnings per share.  Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Pre-Release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "special items".  Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses.  Management believes the discussion of operational earnings provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of Entergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector. Entergy management frequently references operational earnings in its decision-making, using that measure to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
 
The non-GAAP information in the Pre-Release is used in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  The non-GAAP information should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.  The non-GAAP information reflects an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  Investors are strongly encouraged to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.  Non-GAAP information is not standardized; therefore, it may not be possible to compare this information with other comp anies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names


