FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20100429095131.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
 
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On April 29, 2010, Entergy Corporation issued two public announcements, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto (the Earnings Releases) and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the first quarter 2010.  The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On April 29, 2010, Entergy Corporation issued the Earnings Releases, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the first quarter 2010.  The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Entergy Corporation
 
 
By:
/s/ Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
Senior Vice President and
Chief Accounting Officer
 
 
Dated: April 29, 2010
 

 
INVESTOR NEWS
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
April 29, 2010
NEW ORLEANS   Entergy Corporation (NYSE: ETR) reported first quarter 2010 earnings of $1.12 per share on an as-reported basis and $1.33 per share on an operational basis, as shown in Table 1 below.  A more detailed discussion of quarterly results begins on page 2 of this release.
 
 
Operational Earnings Highlights for First Quarter 2010
 
Results for the quarter reflect an improving economy and its positive effects on our utility business, and the continuing volatility in commodity markets and its effect on our non-utility nuclear business, said .  Looking forward, we will remain focused on managing cash flows and operating within our risk capacity and stakeholders risk tolerance.  We continue to believe our strategies drive long-term success and sustainability.
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergys chairman and chief executive officer
Entergys business highlights include the following:
 
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10 a.m. CT on Thursday, April 29, 2010, with access by telephone, 719-457-2080, confirmation code 3884569.  The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergys website at .  A replay of the teleconference will be available through May 6, 2010 by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 3884569.  The replay will also be available on Entergys website at .
www.entergy.com
www.entergy.com
Consolidated Earnings
Table 2 provides a comparative summary of consolidated earnings per share for first quarter 2010 versus 2009, including a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.  Utilitys earnings increased quarter-over-quarter as a result of higher net revenue due primarily to increased sales volumes across all customer classes, including significantly colder-than-normal weather.  The effect of this increase was partially offset by higher non-fuel operation and maintenance expense and higher interest expense.  Entergy Nuclears first quarter 2010 earnings were lower than last year as a result of lower net revenue due primarily to lower pricing.  Also contributing to the lower results at Entergy Nuclear were increases in non-fuel operation and maintenance expense and a higher effective income tax rate.  Partially offsetting was higher other income from decommissioning trusts.  Parent and Others results improved in the current period compared to a year ago due primarily to lower interest expense.  Beginning with first quarter 2010, Parent & Other includes the results from the non-nuclear wholesale assets business.
Detailed earnings variance analysis is included in Appendix A-1 to this release.  In addition, Appendix A-2 provides details of special items shown in Table 2 above.
Consolidated Net Cash Flow Provided by Operating Activities
Entergys net cash flow provided by operating activities in first quarter 2010 was $674 million compared to $375 million in first quarter 2009.  The overall quarterly increase was due primarily to:
Partially offsetting was:
 
Table 3 provides the components of net cash flow provided by operating activities contributed by each business with quarterly comparisons.
In first quarter 2010, Utilitys as-reported and operational earnings were $0.73 per share compared to $0.56 per share on the same bases in first quarter 2009.  Earnings for the Utility in the current quarter reflect higher net revenue due to increased sales across all customer classes and rate adjustments at Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana and Entergy Mississippi under their formula rate plans.  Significantly colder-than-normal weather was a key contributor to the increase in sales volume.  Partially offsetting was higher non-fuel operation and maintenance expense resulting primarily from higher pension and benefits expense, as well as the absence of a nuclear insurance premium refund typically received from Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited included in first quarter results.  In addition, higher interest expense associated with additional debt issuances served as another partial offset to the positive effect of higher net revenue during the quarter.
Electricity usage, in gigawatt-hour sales by customer segment, is included in Table4.  Current quarter sales reflect the following:
 
 
Residential, commercial and industrial classes reflected sales growth as a result of increasing economic activity in Entergys service territory. The improvement in industrial sales in first quarter 2010 was driven by economic recovery that had a positive effect particularly in the chemicals, pulp and paper and primary metals sectors partially offset by a decline in refining due to maintenance outages.  Small and mid-sized industrial customers began to also show signs of recovery as they benefited from global industrial expansion.  As noted above, colder-than-normal weather provided a significant increase in sales volume.
Table 4 provides a comparative summary of the Utilitys operational performance measures.
 
Appendix B provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
 
Entergy Nuclear earned $0.49 per share on an as-reported basis in first quarter 2010, compared to as-reported earnings of $0.91 per share in first quarter 2009.  On an operational basis, first quarter 2010 Entergy Nuclear earnings were $0.78 per share versus $0.95 per share in the first quarter of the prior year.  Entergy Nuclears operational earnings decreased as a result of lower net revenue due primarily to lower pricing.  Contributing to the decrease in earnings were higher non-fuel operation and maintenance expense due primarily to tritium remediation work at the Vermont Yankee site, higher pension and benefits expense, refueling amortization expense, and insurance expense.  A higher effective income tax rate also contributed to the decrease in results this quarter driven primarily by the change in tax laws associated with recently enacted federal health care legislation.  Higher other income associated with decommissioning trusts provided an offset to decreased earnings.
Table 5 provides a comparative summary of Entergy Nuclears operational performance measures.
Table 6 provides capacity and generation sold forward projections for Entergy Nuclear.
(d)  Average contract prices exclude payments that may be owed under the value sharing agreement with the New York Power Authority.
Parent & Other reported a loss of $(0.10) per share on an as-reported basis in first quarter 2010 compared to an as-reported loss of $(0.27) per share in first quarter 2009.  On an operational basis, Parent & Other reported a loss of $(0.18) per share in the current quarter and a loss of $(0.22) per share in first quarter 2009.  Lower interest expense due to lower borrowings, including Parent debt redemptions, was the primary factor that resulted in the change in results at Parent & Other for the quarter.
Earnings Guidance
On April 15, 2010, Entergy revised its 2010 as-reported earnings guidance to a range of $5.95 to $6.80 per share from $6.15 to $6.95 per share to reflect the potential charge in connection with the previously announced business unwind of the internal organizations created for Enexus and EquaGen.  This charge will be classified as a special item in 2010.  The total potential charge estimated at $0.40 to $0.45 per share includes previously identified special items for spin-off dis-synergies and expenses for outside services provided to pursue the spin-off, for which $0.25 per share had already been reflected in as-reported earnings guidance.  Entergy has initiated efforts to eliminate spin-off dis-synergies as soon as possible during 2010.
On an operational basis, Entergy affirmed its earnings per share guidance range of $6.40 to $7.20, which was based on the current business structure and excluded the special items described above.  Year-over-year changes are shown as point estimates and are applied to 2009 earnings to compute the 2010 guidance midpoint.  Drivers for the 2010 operational guidance range are listed separately.  Because there is a range of possible outcomes associated with each earnings driver, a range is applied to the calculated guidance midpoints to produce Entergys guidance ranges for as-reported and operational earnings.  The 2010 earnings guidance is detailed in Table 7 below.
Key assumptions supporting 2010 earnings guidance are as follows:
Utility, Parent & Other
 
Entergy Nuclear
 
Share Repurchase Program
 
Effective Income Tax Rate
 
Revised 2010 As-Reported Earnings Guidance Range
 
 
Earnings guidance for 2010 should be considered in association with earnings sensitivities as shown in Table 8.  These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in operational earnings resulting from changes in various revenue and expense drivers.  Traditionally, the most significant variables for earnings drivers are utility sales for Utility, Parent & Other and energy prices for Entergy Nuclear.  The broader earnings guidance range for 2010 also takes into consideration the following:
 
Estimated annual impacts shown in Table 8 are intended to be indicative rather than precise guidance.
(
f
)  Based on 2009 average fully diluted shares outstanding of approximately 196 million.
Overarching Financial Aspiration
Entergy continues to aspire to deliver superior value to owners as measured by total shareholder return.  The company believes top-quartile total shareholder returns are achieved by:
 
Long-term Financial Outlook
Over the next five years, Entergy believes it offers a competitive utility investment opportunity combined with a valuable option represented by a unique, clean, non-utility nuclear generation business located in attractive power markets.  Table 9 summarizes the current long-term financial outlook.
 
 
The long-term financial outlook should be considered in association with 2014 financial sensitivities as shown in Table 10.  These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in earnings or Adjusted EBITDA resulting from changes in business drivers.  Estimated impacts shown in Table 10 are intended to be illustrative.
Six appendices are presented in this section as follows:
Appendix A-1 provides details of first quarter 2010 vs. 2009 as-reported and operational earnings variance analysis for Utility, Entergy Nuclear, Parent & Other, and Consolidated.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix A-2 lists special items by business with quarter-to-quarter comparisons.  Amounts are shown on both earnings per share and net income bases.  Special items are those events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses.  Special items are included in as-reported earnings per share consistent with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but are excluded from operational earnings per share.  As a result, operational earnings per share is considered a non-GAAP measure.
 
 
(
q
)  Applies to sales made under Entergys FERC jurisdictional Open Access Transmission Tariff.
(r
)  Reflects transmission rate base in Entergys FERC OATT filing, for which such amounts are also reflected in the rate base figures for each of the Operating Companies shown above.
Appendix C-1 provides comparative financial performance measures for the current quarter.  Appendix C-2 provides historical financial performance measures and operating performance metrics for the trailing eight quarters. Financial performance measures in both tables include those calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), as well as those that are considered non-GAAP measures.
As-reported measures are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of net income, including special items.  Operational measures are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational net income, which excludes the impact of special items.  A reconciliation of operational measures to as-reported measures is provided .
in
Appendix F
 
The capital plan for 2010 through 2012 anticipates $7.1 billion for investment, including $2.8 billion of maintenance capital, as shown in Appendix D.  The remaining $4.3 billion is for specific investments (as well as other initiatives) such as:
 
Appendix E provides definitions of certain operational performance measures, as well as GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, all of which are referenced in this release.
Financial measures defined in the below table include measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (GAAP), as well as non-GAAP measures.  Non-GAAP measures are included in this release in order to provide metrics that remove the effect of less routine financial impacts from commonly used financial metrics.
-1 and -2 provide reconciliations of various non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in this release to their most comparable GAAP measure.
Appendix F
Appendix F
**********************************************************************************************************************
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including          (a) those factors discussed in Entergys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, and Entergys other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (b) uncertainties associated with rate proceedings, formula rate plans and other cost recovery mechanisms, (c) uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of major storms and recover related restoration costs, (d) nuclear operating and regulatory risks, and (e) legislative and regulatory actions, and conditions in commodity and capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements, in addition to other factors described elsewhere in this release and in subsequent securities filings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Entergy
639 Loyola Avenue
New Orleans, LA  70113
New Orleans, La.  Entergy Corporation (NYSE:ETR) today reported first quarter 2010 as-reported earnings of $213.8 million, or $1.12 per share, compared with $235.3 million, or $1.20 per share, for first quarter 2009. On an operational basis, Entergys first quarter 2010 earnings were $253.7 million, or $1.33 per share, compared with $252.6 million, or $1.29 per share, in first quarter 2009.
 
        
 *GAAP refers to United States generally accepted accounting principles.
 
 
Results for the quarter reflect an improving economy and its positive effects on our utility business, and the continuing volatility in commodity markets and its effect on our non-utility nuclear business, said . Looking forward, we will remain focused on managing cash flows and operating within our risk capacity and stakeholders risk tolerance. We continue to believe our strategies drive long-term success and sustainability.
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergys chairman and chief executive officer
 
 
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10 a.m. CT on Thursday, April 29, 2010, with access by telephone, 719-457-2080, confirmation code 3884569. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergys website at www.entergy.com. A replay of the teleconference will be available through May 6, 2010, by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 3884569. The replay will also be available on Entergys website at www.entergy.com.
 
In first quarter 2010, Utilitys as-reported and operational earnings were $138.6 million, or 73 cents per share, compared to $111.6 million, or 56 cents per share, on the same bases in first quarter 2009. Earnings for the Utility in the current quarter reflect higher net revenue due to increased sales across all customer classes and rate adjustments at Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, Entergy Louisiana and Entergy Mississippi under their formula rate plans. Significantly colder-than-normal weather was a key contributor to the increase in sales volume. Partially offsetting was higher non-fuel operation and maintenance expense resulting primarily from higher pension and benefits expense, as well as the absence of a nuclear insurance premium refund typically received from Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited included in first quarter results. In addition, higher interest expense associated with additional debt issuances served as another partial offset to the positive effect of higher net revenue during the quarter.
 
Residential sales in first quarter 2010, on a weather-adjusted basis, increased 3.9 percent compared to first quarter 2009. Commercial and governmental sales, on a weather-adjusted basis, increased 3.2 percent year over year. Industrial sales in the first quarter increased 7.3 percent compared to the same quarter of 2009.
 
Residential, commercial and industrial classes reflected sales growth as a result of increasing economic activity in Entergys service territory. The improvement in industrial sales in first quarter 2010 was driven by economic recovery that had a positive effect particularly in the chemicals, pulp and paper and primary metals sectors partially offset by a decline in refining due to maintenance outages. Small and mid-sized industrial customers began to also show signs of recovery as they benefited from global industrial expansion. As noted above, colder-than-normal weather provided a significant increase in sales volume.
Entergy Nuclear earned $94.2 million, or 49 cents per share, on an as-reported basis in first quarter 2010, compared to as-reported earnings of $180.9 million, or 91 cents per share, in first quarter 2009. On an operational basis, first quarter 2010 Entergy Nuclears earnings were $148.6 million, or 78 cents per share, versus $187.5 million, or 95 cents per share, in the first quarter of the prior year. Entergy Nuclears operational earnings decreased as a result of lower net revenue due primarily to lower pricing. Contributing to the decrease in earnings were higher non-fuel operation and maintenance expense due primarily to tritium remediation work at the Vermont Yankee site, higher pension and benefits expense, refueling amortization expense, and insurance expense. A higher effective income tax rate also contributed to the decrease in results this quarter driven primarily by the change in tax laws associated with recently enacted federal health care legislation. Higher other income associated with decommissioning trusts provided an offset to decreased earnings.
 
Parent & Other reported a loss of $19.1 million, or 10 cents per share, on an as-reported basis in first quarter 2010 compared to an as-reported loss of $57.2 million, or 27 cents per share, in first quarter 2009. On an operational basis, Parent & Other reported a loss of $33.5 million, or 18 cents per share, in the current quarter and a loss of $46.5 million, or 22 cents per share, in first quarter 2009. Lower interest expense due to lower borrowings, including Parent debt redemptions, was the primary factor that resulted in the change in operational results at Parent & Other for the quarter.
 
On April 15, 2010, Entergy revised its 2010 as-reported earnings guidance to a range of $5.95 to $6.80 per share from $6.15 to $6.95 per share to reflect the potential charge in connection with the previously announced business unwind of the internal organizations created for Enexus and EquaGen. This charge will be classified as a special item in 2010. The total potential charge estimated at 40 to 45 cents per share includes previously identified special items for spin-off dis-synergies and expenses for outside services provided to pursue the spin-off, for which 25 cents per share had already been reflected in as-reported earnings guidance. Entergy has initiated efforts to eliminate spin-off dis-synergies as soon as possible during 2010. On an operational basis, Entergy affirmed its earnings per share guidance range of $6.40 to $7.20, which was based on the current business structure and excluded the special items described above.
 
Entergy continues to aspire to deliver superior value to owners as measured by total shareholder return. The company believes top-quartile total shareholder returns are achieved by:
 
Over the next five years, Entergy believes it offers a competitive utility investment opportunity combined with a valuable option represented by a unique, clean, non-utility nuclear generation business located in attractive power markets. The expected current long-term financial outlook includes the following:
 
Earnings:
 
 
Capital deployment:
 
 
Credit quality:
 
 
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.7 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $10 billion and more than 15,000 employees.
Additional information regarding Entergys quarterly results of operations, regulatory proceedings and other operations is available in Entergys investor news release dated April 29, 2010, a copy of which has been filed today with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 8-K and is available on Entergys investor relations website at .
www.entergy.com/investor_relations
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in Entergys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009, and Entergys other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (b) uncertainties associated with rate proceedings, formula rate plans and other cost recovery mechanisms, (c) uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of major storms and recover related restoration costs, (d) nuclear operating and regulatory risks, and (e) legislative and regulatory actions, and conditions in commodity and capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements, in addition to other factors described elsewhere in this release and in subsequent securities filings.
 
Appendix A provides a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.

Exhibit 99.3
 
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Releases"), contain non-GAAP financial measures.  Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP.  Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Releases and the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
Certain non-GAAP measures in the Releases could differ from GAAP only in that the figure or ratio states or includes operational earnings per share.  Operational earnings per share is presented for each of Entergy's major business segments as well as on a consolidated basis.  Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the effect of "special items."  Special items reflect the effect on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses.  In addition, other financial measures including return on average invested capital, return on average common equity, and net margin are included on both an operational and as-reported basis.  In each case, the metrics defined as "operational" would exclude the effect of special items as defined above.  Management believes financial metrics calculated using operational earnings provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of Entergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector.  Entergy management frequently references these non-GAAP financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
 
Other non-GAAP measures, total gross liquidity; debt to capital, excluding securitization debt; net debt to net capital, excluding securitization debt; and net debt including off-balance sheet liabilities, excluding securitization debt; are measures Entergy uses internally for management and board discussions and cash budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business.  Entergy believes the above data provides useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial flexibility, and assists investors in comparing the company's cash availability to the cash availability of others in the energy sector.
 
The non-GAAP financial measures and other reported adjusted items in Entergy's Releases are used in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  These non-GAAP financial measures should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.  These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  Investors are strongly encouraged to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.  Non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized; therefore, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names.


