FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20100202072905.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On February 2, 2010, Entergy Corporation issued two public announcements, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto (the Earnings Releases) and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the fourth quarter 2009.  The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On February 2, 2010, Entergy Corporation issued the Earnings Releases, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the fourth quarter 2009.  The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrants have duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Entergy Corporation
 
By:
/s/ Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
Senior Vice President and
Chief Accounting Officer
 
Dated: February 2, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
INVESTOR NEWS
 
 
February 2, 2010
ENTERGY REPORTS FOURTH QUARTER EARNINGS
NEW ORLEANS  Entergy Corporation reported fourth quarter 2009 earnings of $1.64 per share on an as-reported basis and $1.75 per share on an operational basis, as shown in
Table 1
 below.  A more detailed discussion of quarterly results begins on page 2 of this release.
 
Operational Earnings Highlights for Fourth Quarter 2009
 
Both our utility and non-utility nuclear businesses delivered strong operational performance during a period of extraordinary global economic and financial uncertainty, said .  Looking ahead, signs of an improving economic environment, our market-based point-of-view, adherence to our disciplined risk management and the strength of our cash position provide a foundation that supports our strategic, operational and financial goals.
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergys chairman and chief executive officer
 
Entergys business highlights include the following:
 
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10:00 a.m. CT on Tuesday, February 2, 2010, with access by telephone, 719-457-2080, confirmation code 6584600.  The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergys Web site at .  A replay of the teleconference will be available through February 9, 2010 by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 6584600.  The replay will also be available on Entergys Web site at .
www.entergy.com
www.entergy.com
Consolidated Earnings
provides a comparative summary of consolidated earnings per share for fourth quarter 2009 versus 2008, including a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.  Utility, Parent & Others earnings increased quarter-over-quarter due primarily to lower income tax expense, as well as lower non-fuel operation and maintenance expense primarily resulting from the absence of regulatory charges associated with rate proceedings at Entergy Arkansas in 2008.  Entergy Nuclears fourth quarter 2009 earnings were lower than last year as a result of an increase in income tax and operation and maintenance expenses.  Higher net revenue from the non-utility nuclear fleet, driven by both higher pricing and production, and higher other income provided a partial offset to the lower results in the current quarter.  Entergys Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business reported improved earnings due primarily to a reduction in income tax expense.
Table 2
Detailed earnings variance analysis is included in Appendix B-1 and Appendix B-2 to this release.  In addition, Appendix B-3 provides details of special items shown in Table 2 above.
Consolidated Net Cash Flow Provided by Operating Activities
Entergys net cash flow provided by operating activities in fourth quarter 2009 was $924 million compared to $632 million in fourth quarter 2008.  A fourth quarter intercompany transaction that nets to zero on a consolidated basis resulted in significant offsetting variances at Utility, Parent & Other and Entergy Nuclear.  Pursuant to Entergys intercompany tax allocation agreement, Entergy Nuclear received $1.3 billion in cash payments from Utility, Parent & Other.
The overall quarterly increase was due primarily to:
 
 
Partially offsetting was:
 
For the year 2009, Entergys operating cash flow was $2,933 million versus $3,324 million last year.  Payments under the intercompany tax allocation agreement noted above resulted in significant offsetting variances at Utility, Parent & Other and Entergy Nuclear.
The overall decrease for the year was due primarily to:
 
 
Partially offsetting items include:
 
Table 3 provides the components of net cash flow provided by operating activities contributed by each business with quarterly and year-to-date comparisons.
In fourth quarter 2009, Utility, Parent & Others as-reported earnings were $0.56 per share compared to a loss of $(0.38) per share in fourth quarter 2008.  On an operational basis, fourth quarter 2009 earnings for Utility, Parent & Other were $0.61 per share versus a loss of $(0.33) per share in the same quarter last year.  Operational earnings for Utility, Parent & Other in fourth quarter 2009 reflect lower income tax expense associated with the net effect of annual consolidated income tax adjustments across the Entergy companies.  A favorable tax reserve adjustment also contributed following issuance by the Louisiana Department of Revenue of a private letter ruling related to securitization of Katrina and Rita storm costs.  In addition, the absence of regulatory charges associated with rate proceedings at Entergy Arkansas in 2008 was the primary driver of lower non-fuel operation and maintenance expense, as well as a contributor to the lower income tax expense compared to fourth quarter 2008.  Also contributing to the earnings improvement versus the same quarter last year was higher net revenue.
Electricity usage, in gigawatt-hour sales by customer segment, is included in Table4.  Current quarter sales reflect the following:
 
 
Residential, commercial and industrial classes reflected sales growth as a result of increasing economic activity in Entergys service territory. The improvement in industrial sales in fourth quarter 2009 was driven by the large industrial customer group, particularly in chemicals and refining.  Small and mid-sized industrial customers are slowly showing signs of recovery from the recession, but their usage continued to be negatively affected in the current quarter.  Also, a portion of the quarter-over-quarter increase in sales for all customer classes was the result of the absence of outages for the September 2008 hurricanes, most notably in the industrial segment. Industrial customers are typically billed at the beginning of the month, and as such these outages for hurricanes Gustav and Ike were reflected in October sales.  Near normal weather versus warmer-than-normal weather in fourth quarter 2008 also provided a modest increase in sales volume.
For the year 2009, Utility, Parent and Other earned $2.88 per share on an as-reported earnings basis, compared to $2.22 per share in 2008.  Operational earnings in 2009 were $3.02 per share compared to $2.43 per share in 2008.  The increase in operational earnings in 2009 was driven by higher Utility net revenue with the absence of hurricanes Gustav and Ike in 2008 contributing.  Another factor in the improved results at Utility, Parent & Other was lower operation and maintenance expense, due primarily to the absence of Entergy Arkansas regulatory charges noted above.  Also contributing to the earnings improvement was a lower overall effective tax rate for Utility, Parent & Other in 2009 versus 2008.  Partially offsetting these items was an increase in depreciation and amortization expense in the current year due to increased plant in service.
Table 4 provides a comparative summary of the Utilitys operational performance measures.
Appendix C provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
Entergys competitive businesses include Entergy Nuclear and Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets.
Entergy Nuclear
Entergy Nuclear earned $0.89 per share on an as-reported basis in fourth quarter 2009, compared to as-reported earnings of $1.14 per share in fourth quarter 2008.  On an operational basis, fourth quarter 2009 Entergy Nuclear earnings were $0.95 per share versus $1.18 per share in the last quarter of the prior year.  Entergy Nuclears operational earnings decreased as a result of higher income tax expense in the current quarter due primarily to the net effect of the annual consolidated tax adjustments.  Also contributing to the lower results was higher operation and maintenance expense during the quarter due to the absence of refueling outages in the quarter and associated deferral of costs.  Partially offsetting these items was higher net revenue as a result of higher generation due to 32 fewer refueling outage days in the current quarter and increased pricing.  Higher other income associated with decommissioning trusts also provided an offset to decreased earnings.  A smaller impairment recognized on Entergy Nuclears decommissioning trust funds in the current period contributed to higher other income, as well as higher earnings realized on decommissioning trust investments in 2009.
For the year 2009, Entergy Nuclear earned $3.22 per share on an as-reported basis and $3.45 per share on an operational basis.  This compares to as-reported earnings of $3.97 per share and operational earnings of $4.07 per share at Entergy Nuclear in the prior year.  The decline in Entergy Nuclears operational earnings in 2009 was due primarily to a higher effective income tax rate as well as an increase in operation and maintenance expense.  Impairments on Entergy Nuclears decommissioning trust funds in 2009 exceeded amounts recognized in 2008, and were partially offset by higher realized earnings on decommissioning trust investments, also reflected in other income.
Table 5 provides a comparative summary of Entergy Nuclears operational performance measures.
Table 6 provides capacity and generation sold forward projections for Entergy Nuclear.
 
Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets
Entergys Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets fourth quarter earnings were $0.19 per share in 2009 compared to as-reported earnings of $0.13 per share and operational earnings of $0.14 per share in the same quarter a year ago.  Income tax benefits were the primary drivers in both quarters.  The current quarter reflects a tax benefit recognized on a capital loss associated with the sale of stock of a merchant fossil generation subsidiary to a third party.  In the fourth quarter 2008, a closing agreement was reached with the Internal Revenue Service allowing a capital loss.  As a result, a provision for tax uncertainties that existed on this item was reversed.
For the year 2009, Entergys Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business earned $0.20 per share compared to earnings of $0.01 per share in 2008.  As-reported and operational results were the same in both periods.  The earnings increase in 2009 was driven by a decrease in income tax expense due to the fourth quarter 2009 benefit noted above, plus a second quarter decrease in valuation allowance on loss carryovers.  Quarterly income tax effects in 2008 were largely offsetting.
Earnings Guidance
Entergy is affirming 2010 earnings guidance in the range of $6.15 to $6.95 per share on an as-reported basis, assuming a business as usual operation for the full year.  Operational earnings per share guidance ranges from $6.40 to $7.20 per share and excludes $(0.25) per share of projected dis-synergies associated with the spin-off of Entergys non-utility nuclear business and plans to enter into a nuclear services joint venture.  Guidance for 2010 does not incorporate a special item for expenses anticipated in connection with outside services provided to pursue the spin-off.  The level of these charges in 2010 will vary depending upon resolution of the spin-off.  Year-over-year changes are shown as point estimates and are applied to 2009 earnings to compute the 2010 guidance midpoint.  Drivers for the 2010 operational guidance range are listed separately.  Because there is a range of possible outcomes associated with each earnings driver, a range is applied to the calculated guidance midpoints to produce Entergys guidance ranges for as-reported and operational earnings.  Beginning in 2010, Entergy will combine the Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets results with Utility, Parent & Others for earnings release purposes.  The segments in 2010 guidance have been adjusted to align with the revised presentation format.  The 2010 earnings guidance is detailed in Table 7 below.
(d)  Updated February 2010 to reflect 2009 final results.
Key assumptions supporting 2010 business as usual earnings guidance are as follows:
Utility, Parent & Other
 
Entergy Nuclear
 
Share Repurchase Program
 
Effective Income Tax Rate
 
 
Earnings guidance for 2010 should be considered in association with earnings sensitivities as shown in Table 8.  These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in operational earnings resulting from changes in various revenue and expense drivers.  Traditionally, the most significant variables for earnings drivers are utility sales for Utility, Parent & Other and energy prices for Entergy Nuclear.  The broader earnings guidance range for 2010 also takes into consideration the following:
 
Estimated annual impacts shown in Table 8 are intended to be indicative rather than precise guidance.
(
e
)  Based on 2009 average fully diluted shares outstanding of approximately 196 million.
Seven appendices are presented in this section as follows:
 
Appendix A provides information on Entergys planned spin-off of its non-utility nuclear business.
The announced spin-off of Entergys non-utility nuclear business will establish a new independent, publicly traded company, Enexus Energy Corporation.  In addition, Entergy and Enexus intend to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, with equal ownership, with the joint venture being named EquaGen LLC.  The state regulatory decisions and financing continue as the critical path items in finalizing the spin-off transaction.  The transactions are subject to various approvals, outlined in the table below.  Final terms of the transactions and spin-off completion are subject to the approval of the Entergy Board of Directors.
 
Appendix B-1 and Appendix B-2 provide details of fourth quarter and year-to-date 2009 vs. 2008 as-reported and operational earnings variance analysis for Utility, Parent & Other, Competitive Businesses, and Consolidated.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix B-3 lists special items by business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons.  Amounts are shown on both earnings per share and net income bases.  Special items are those events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses.  Special items are included in as-reported earnings per share consistent with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but are excluded from operational earnings per share.  As a result, operational earnings per share is considered a non-GAAP measure.
 
 
 
 
 
(
q
)  Applies to sales made under Entergys FERC jurisdictional Open Access Transmission Tariff.
(r
)  Reflects transmission rate base in Entergys FERC OATT filing, for which such amounts are also reflected in the rate base figures for each of the Operating Companies shown above.
 
-1 provides comparative financial performance measures for the current quarter.  -2 provides historical financial performance measures and operating performance metrics for the trailing eight quarters. Financial performance measures in both tables include those calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), as well as those that are considered non-GAAP measures.
Appendix
D
Appendix
D
As-reported measures are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of net income, including special items.  Operational measures are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational net income, which excludes the impact of special items.  A reconciliation of operational measures to as-reported measures is provided .
in
Appendix G
 
 
 
The capital plan for 2010 through 2012 anticipates $7.1 billion for investment, including $2.8 billion of maintenance capital, as shown in Appendix E.  The remaining $4.3 billion is for specific investments (as well as other initiatives) such as:
 
 
Appendix F provides definitions of certain operational performance measures, as well as GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, all of which are referenced in this release.
 
Financial measures defined in the below table include measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (GAAP), as well as non-GAAP measures.  Non-GAAP measures are included in this release in order to provide metrics that remove the effect of less routine financial impacts from commonly used financial metrics.
 
-1 and -2 provide reconciliations of various non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in this release to their most comparable GAAP measure.
Appendix G
Appendix G
 
 
Entergy Corporations common stock is listed on the New York and Chicago exchanges under the symbol ETR.
Additional investor information can be accessed on-line at
www.entergy.com/investor_relations
**********************************************************************************************************************
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in (i) Entergys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, (ii) Entergys Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2009, and (iii) Entergys other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (b) the uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike and the January 2009 Arkansas ice storm and recovery of costs associated with restoration, and (c) the following transactional factors (in addition to others described elsewhere in this news release and in subsequent securities filings): (i) risks inherent in the contemplated spin-off, joint venture and related transactions (including the level of debt to be incurred by Enexus Energy Corporation and the terms and costs related thereto), (ii) legislative and regulatory actions, and (iii) conditions of the capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements.  Entergy cannot provide any assurances that the spin-off or any of the proposed transactions related thereto will be completed, nor can it give assurances as to the terms on which such transactions will be consummated.  The transaction is subject to certain conditions precedent, including regulatory approvals and the final approval by the Board of Directors of Entergy.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Entergy
639 Loyola Avenue
New Orleans, LA  70113
 
News
Release
Exhibit 99.2
New Orleans, La.  Entergy Corporation (NYSE:ETR) today reported fourth quarter 2009 as-reported earnings of $313.8 million, or $1.64 per share, compared with $170.6 million, or 89 cents per share, for fourth quarter 2008. On an operational basis, Entergys fourth quarter 2009 earnings were $334.9 million, or $1.75 per share, compared with $190.7 million, or 99 cents per share, in fourth quarter 2008. For the year, Entergys as-reported earnings were $1.2 billion, or $6.30 per share, and operational earnings were $1.3 billion, or $6.67 per share. These results compare with 2008 as-reported earnings of $1.2 billion, or $6.20 per share, and operational earnings of $1.3 billion, or $6.51 per share.
     *GAAP refers to United States generally accepted accounting principles.
 
Both our utility and non-utility nuclear businesses delivered strong operational performance during a period of extraordinary global economic and financial uncertainty, said . Looking ahead, signs of an improving economic environment, our market-based point-of-view, adherence to our disciplined risk management and the strength of our cash position provide a foundation that supports our strategic, operational and financial goals.
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergys chairman and chief executive officer
 
 
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10:00 a.m. CT on Tuesday, Feb. 2, 2010, with access by telephone, 719-457-2080, confirmation code 6584600. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergys Web site at www.entergy.com. A replay of the teleconference will be available through Feb. 9, 2010, by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 6584600. The replay will also be available on Entergys Web site at www.entergy.com.
 
In fourth quarter 2009, Utility, Parent & Others as-reported earnings were $107.0 million, or 56 cents per share, compared to a loss of $82.6 million, or 38 cents per share, in fourth quarter 2008. On an operational basis, fourth quarter 2009 earnings were $116.2 million, or 61 cents per share, compared to a loss of $62.5 million, or 33 cents per share, in fourth quarter 2008. Operational earnings for Utility, Parent & Other in fourth quarter 2009 reflect lower income tax expense associated with the net effect of annual consolidated income tax adjustments across the Entergy companies. A favorable tax reserve adjustment also contributed following issuance by the Louisiana Department of Revenue of a private letter ruling related to securitization of Katrina and Rita storm costs. In addition, the absence of regulatory charges associated with rate proceedings at Entergy Arkansas in 2008 was the primary driver of lower non-fuel operation and maintenance expense, as well as a contributor to the lower income tax expense compared to fourth quarter 2008. Also contributing to the earnings improvement versus the same quarter last year was higher net revenue.
 
Residential sales in fourth quarter 2009, on a weather-adjusted basis, increased 4.6 percent compared to fourth quarter 2008. Commercial and governmental sales, on a weather-adjusted basis, increased 3.0 percent year over year. Industrial sales in the fourth quarter increased 7.1 percent compared to the same quarter of 2008.
 
Residential, commercial and industrial classes reflected sales growth as a result of increasing economic activity in Entergys service territory. The improvement in industrial sales in fourth quarter 2009 was driven by the large industrial customer group, particularly in chemicals and refining. Small and mid-sized industrial customers are slowly showing signs of recovery from the recession, but their usage continued to be negatively affected in the current quarter. Also, a portion of the quarter-over-quarter increase in sales for all customer classes was the result of the absence of outages for the September 2008 hurricanes, most notably in the industrial segment. Industrial customers are typically billed at the beginning of the month, and as such these outages for hurricanes Gustav and Ike were reflected in October sales. Near normal weather versus warmer-than-normal weather in fourth quarter 2008 also provided a modest increase in sales volume.
 
For the year 2009, Utility, Parent and Other earned $561.4 million, or $2.88 per share, on an as-reported earnings basis, compared to $422.0 million, or $2.22 per share, in 2008. Operational earnings in 2009 were $588.4 million, or $3.02 per share, compared to $477.4 million, or $2.43 per share, in 2008. The increase in operational earnings in 2009 was driven by higher Utility net revenue with the absence of hurricanes Gustav and Ike in 2008 contributing. Another factor in the improved results at Utility, Parent & Other was lower operation and maintenance expense, due primarily to the absence of Entergy Arkansas regulatory charges noted above. Also contributing to the earnings improvement was a lower overall effective tax rate for Utility, Parent & Other in 2009 versus 2008. Partially offsetting these items was an increase in depreciation and amortization expense in the current year due to increased plant in service.
 
Entergy Nuclear earned $169.5 million, or 89 cents per share, on an as-reported basis in fourth quarter 2009, compared to as-reported earnings of $226.6 million, or $1.14 per share, in fourth quarter 2008. On an operational basis, fourth quarter 2009 Entergy Nuclear earnings were $181.5 million, or 95 cents per share, versus $226.6 million, or $1.18 per share, in the last quarter of 2008. Entergy Nuclears operational earnings decreased as a result of higher income tax expense in the current quarter due primarily to the net effect of the annual consolidated tax adjustments. Also contributing to the lower results was higher operation and maintenance expense during the quarter due to the absence of refueling outages in the quarter and associated deferral of costs. Partially offsetting these items was higher net revenue as a result of higher generation due to 32 fewer refueling outage days in the current quarter and increased pricing. Higher other income associated with decommissioning trusts also provided an offset to decreased earnings. A smaller impairment recognized on Entergy Nuclears decommissioning trust funds in the current period contributed to higher other income, as well as higher earnings realized on decommissioning trust investments in 2009.
 
For the year 2009, Entergy Nuclear earned $631.0 million, or $3.22 per share, on an as-reported basis and $675.0 million, or $3.45 per share, on an operational basis. This compares to as-reported earnings of $797.3 million, or $3.97 per share, and operational earnings of $797.3 million, or $4.07 per share, at Entergy Nuclear in 2008. The decline in Entergy Nuclears operational earnings in 2009 was due primarily to a higher effective income tax rate as well as an increase in operation and maintenance expense. Impairments on Entergy Nuclears decommissioning trust funds in 2009 exceeded amounts recognized in 2008, and were partially offset by higher realized earnings on decommissioning trust investments, also reflected in other income.
 
Entergys Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business earned $37.2 million, or 19 cents per share, on both as-reported and operational bases in fourth quarter 2009 compared to $26.5 million, or 13 cents per share, on an as-reported basis, and $26.5 million, or 14 cents per share, on an operational basis, a year ago. Income tax benefits were the primary drivers in both quarters. The current quarter reflects a tax benefit recognized on a capital loss associated with the sale of stock of a merchant fossil generation subsidiary to a third party. In the fourth quarter 2008, a closing agreement was reached with the Internal Revenue Service allowing a capital loss. As a result, a provision for tax uncertainties that existed on this item was reversed.
 
For the year 2009, Entergys Non-Nuclear Wholesale Assets business earned $38.7 million, or 20 cents per share, compared to earnings of $1.3 million, or one cent per share, in 2008. As-reported and operational results were the same in both periods. The earnings increase in 2009 was driven by a decrease in income tax expense due to the fourth quarter 2009 benefit noted above, plus a second quarter decrease in valuation allowance on loss carryovers. Quarterly income tax effects in 2008 were largely offsetting.
 
Entergy is affirming 2010 earnings guidance in the range of $6.15 to $6.95 per share on an as-reported basis, assuming a business as usual operation for the full year. Operational earnings per share guidance ranges from $6.40 to $7.20 per share and excludes $(0.25) per share of projected dis-synergies associated with the spin-off of Entergys non-utility nuclear business and plans to enter into a nuclear services joint venture. Guidance for 2010 does not incorporate a special item for expenses anticipated in connection with outside services provided to pursue the spin-off. The level of these charges in 2010 will vary depending upon resolution of the spin-off.
 
The announced spin-off of Entergys non-utility nuclear business will establish a new independent, publicly traded company, Enexus Energy Corporation. In addition, Entergy and Enexus intend to enter into a nuclear services joint venture, with equal ownership, with the joint venture being named EquaGen LLC. The state regulatory decisions and financing continue as the critical path items in finalizing the spin-off transaction. The transactions are subject to various approvals. Final terms of the transactions and spin-off completion are subject to the approval of the Entergy Board of Directors.
 
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.7 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $10 billion and approximately 15,000 employees.
 
Additional information regarding Entergys quarterly results of operations, regulatory proceedings, planned spin-off of its non-utility nuclear business and other operations is available in Entergys investor news release dated Feb. 2, 2010, a copy of which has been filed today with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 8-K and is available on Entergys investor relations Web site at .
www.entergy.com/investor_relations
 
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in (i) Entergys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, (ii) Entergys Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, June 30 and September 30, 2009, and (iii) Entergys other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, (b) the uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of Hurricanes Gustav and Ike and the January 2009 Arkansas ice storm and recovery of costs associated with restoration, and (c) the following transactional factors (in addition to others described elsewhere in this news release and in subsequent securities filings): (i) risks inherent in the contemplated spin-off, joint venture and related transactions (including the level of debt to be incurred by Enexus Energy Corporation and the terms and costs related thereto), (ii) legislative and regulatory actions, and (iii) conditions of the capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements.  Entergy cannot provide any assurances that the spin-off or any of the proposed transactions related thereto will be completed, nor can it give assurances as to the terms on which such transactions will be consummated.  The transaction is subject to certain conditions precedent, including regulatory approvals and the final approval by the Board of Directors of Entergy.
Appendix A provides a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Releases"), contain non-GAAP financial measures.  Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP.  Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Releases and the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
Certain non-GAAP measures in the Releases could differ from GAAP only in that the figure or ratio states or includes operational earnings per share.  Operational earnings per share is presented for each of Entergy's major business segments as well as on a consolidated basis.  Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the effect of "special items."  Special items reflect the effect on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses.  In the periods covered by the Releases, Entergy reported special items for: 1) expenses and dis-synergies incurred in connection with the plan to pursue the separation of Entergy's non-utility nuclear business and to enter into a nuclear services joint venture and 2) the dilutive effect of the unsuccessful remarketing of Entergy Corporation's equity units.  In addition, other financial measures including return on average invested capital (ROIC), return on average common equity (ROE), and net margin are included on both an operational and as-reported basis.  In each case, the metrics defined as "operational" would exclude the effect of special items as defined above.  Management believes financial metrics calculated using operational earnings provides useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of Entergy's businesses and assists investors in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector.  Entergy management frequently references these non-GAAP financial measures in its decision-making, using them to facilitate historical and ongoing performance comparisons as well as comparisons to the performance of peer companies.
 
Other non-GAAP measures, total gross liquidity, net debt to net capital ratio, and net debt ratio including off-balance sheet liabilities are measures Entergy uses internally for management and board discussions, and cash budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business.  Entergy believes the above data provides useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial flexibility, and assists investors in comparing the company's cash availability to the cash availability of others in the energy sector.
 
The non-GAAP financial measures and other reported adjusted items in Entergy's Releases are used in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  These non-GAAP financial measures should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.  These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  Investors are strongly encouraged to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.  Non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized; therefore, it may not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names.
 


