FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20110124113025.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
[ ]      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02.                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibits, is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02.
On January 24, 2011, Entergy Corporation issued a public announcement, which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated:  January 24, 2011

Exhibit 99.1
Entergy Corporation
639 Loyola Avenue
New Orleans, LA 70113
News
Release
 
 
             
New Orleans, La.  Entergy Corporation (NYSE: ETR) today indicated that it expects fourth quarter 2010 as-reported earnings of approximately $1.25 per share and operational earnings of approximately $1.29 per share. As-reported and operational results for fourth quarter 2009 were $1.64 per share and $1.75 per share, respectively. Entergy also affirmed its previously issued earnings guidance for 2011.
 
As-reported results are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and are comprised of operational earnings (described below) and special items. The special items included in both fourth quarter 2009 and 2010 as-reported results are associated with the previously planned spin-off of the non-utility nuclear business.
 
Beginning this quarter, Entergy has revised its business segment disclosures to reflect the internal reorganization announced in June 2010 combining all non-utility generation into Entergy Wholesale Commodities, or EWC. A portion of EWC was previously reported in Parent & Other. The Utility segment is unchanged.
 
 
 
Entergy News Release: Entergy Provides Preliminary Fourth Quarter Earnings Guidance
Page 2
Jan. 24, 2011
 
The quarter-over-quarter decrease in operational earnings at Entergy Wholesale Commodities was driven by lower net revenue due primarily to additional planned and unplanned outage days at EWCs nuclear plants. Lower nuclear generation reflected planned refueling outages at two plants totaling 43 days, as well as an extended unplanned outage at Indian Point 2 in November 2010. There were no nuclear refueling outages in the fourth quarter of 2009. Also contributing to the decline in operational earnings in the current period was a higher effective income tax rate and a reduction in other income associated with decommissioning trusts. A gain on the sale of the Harrison County plant and lower non-fuel operation and maintenance expense provided a partial offset to these items.
 
The decrease in Utilitys earnings in fourth quarter 2010 was due primarily to an increase in non-fuel operation and maintenance expense. In addition, a decline in Utility net revenue was driven by the net effect of the absence of a prior year positive adjustment for changes in the deferred fuel methodology at Entergy Gulf States Louisiana and a regulatory charge also recorded in the prior year period. Favorable weather during the fourth quarter of 2010 and pricing adjustments resulting from previous rate actions had an overall positive effect on net revenue.
 
Parent & Others operational results declined during the quarter due to several individually insignificant items including higher interest expense on Parent debt.
 
In addition to the items noted for the business segments above, fourth quarter 2010 earnings included accretion from Entergys share repurchase programs.
 
 
 
 
Entergy News Release: Entergy Provides Preliminary Fourth Quarter Earnings Guidance
Page 3
Jan. 24, 2011
 
Entergy affirmed previously issued as-reported and operational earnings guidance for 2011
to be in the range of $6.35 to $6.85 per share.
 
A teleconference will be held at 10 a.m. CT on Tuesday, Feb. 8, 2011, to discuss Entergys fourth quarter 2010 earnings announcement, and may be accessed by dialing (719) 457-2080, confirmation code 2202485, no more than 15 minutes prior to the start of the call. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergys website at . A replay of the teleconference will be available for seven days thereafter by dialing (719) 457-0820, confirmation code 2202485.
www.entergy.com
 
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.7 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $10 billion and more than 15,000 employees.
 
 
 
 
Entergy News Release: Entergy Provides Preliminary Fourth Quarter Earnings Guidance
Page 4
Jan. 24, 2011
 
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in:  (i) Entergys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009,
(ii) Entergys Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2010, June 30, 2010, and September 30, 2010 and (iii) Entergys other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
(b) uncertainties associated with rate proceedings, formula rate plans and other cost recovery mechanisms,
(c) uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of major storms and recover related restoration costs, (d) nuclear operating and regulatory risks, and (e) legislative and regulatory actions, and conditions in commodity and capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements, in addition to other factors described elsewhere in this release and in subsequent securities filings.

Exhibit 99.2
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Pre-Release") contains the non-GAAP financial measure of operational earnings per share.  Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Pre-Release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "special items".  Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses.  Management believes the discussion of operational earnings provides useful information in evaluating the ongoing results of Entergy's businesses and assists in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector.
 
The non-GAAP information in the Pre-Release is used in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  The non-GAAP information should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.  The non-GAAP information reflects an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  Investors are strongly encouraged to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.  Non-GAAP information is not standardized; therefore, it may not be possible to compare this information with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names.


