FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20110419112531.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
[ ]      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02.   Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibits, is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02.
On April 19, 2011, Entergy Corporation issued a public announcement, which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Entergy Corporation
639 Loyola Avenue
New Orleans, LA 70113
News
Release
 
 
New Orleans, La.  Entergy Corporation (NYSE: ETR) today indicated that it expects first quarter 2011 as-reported and operational earnings of approximately $1.37 per share. As-reported and operational results for first quarter 2010 were $1.12 per share and $1.33 per share, respectively. Entergy also affirmed its previously issued earnings guidance for 2011.
 
As-reported results are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and are comprised of operational earnings (described below) and special items. The special items, reflected in first quarter 2010 as-reported results for Entergy Wholesale Commodities and Parent & Other, were associated with the previously planned spin-off of the non-utility nuclear business.
 
The first quarter 2011 operational earnings improvement was due to higher earnings at Utility, which was partially offset by lower operational results at Entergy Wholesale Commodities and Parent & Other. First quarter 2011 earnings also reflect accretion from Entergys share repurchase programs.
 
 
 
Entergy News Release: Entergy Provides Preliminary First Quarter Earnings Guidance
Page 2
April 19, 2011
 
The increase in Utilitys earnings in first quarter 2011 was due primarily to higher net revenue driven by increased weather-adjusted sales volume as well as pricing adjustments from previous rate actions. Despite significantly favorable weather in the current period, the weather effect declined quarter-over-quarter compared to the near-record-setting colder-than-normal weather experienced in the first quarter of last year.
 
The quarter-over-quarter decrease in operational earnings at Entergy Wholesale Commodities was driven by lower net revenue and lower other income associated with decommissioning trusts. EWCs net revenue declined due primarily to lower nuclear production from additional unplanned outage days and lower pricing on its nuclear fleet. Partially offsetting these factors was a lower effective income tax rate due to the absence of a prior year adjustment to income tax expense (associated with federal healthcare legislation enacted in 2010).
 
Parent & Others operational results declined during the quarter due to several individually insignificant items, including higher interest expense on Parent debt.
 
Entergy affirmed previously issued as-reported and operational earnings guidance for 2011
to be in the range of $6.35 to $6.85 per share.
 
Entergys senior management will host its 2011 Analyst Meeting on April 29, 2011, in New Orleans, La., to discuss quarterly results and other business matters with investors. Entergy will webcast its analyst meeting starting at 7:30 a.m. CT. Entergys Chief Financial Officer Leo Denault will review the first quarter 2011 quarterly results announcement in his presentation, which is
 
 
 
Entergy News Release: Entergy Provides Preliminary First Quarter Earnings Guidance
Page 3
April 19, 2011
 
scheduled to begin at approximately 11:15 a.m. CT. In addition, a question-and-answer session with Entergys management team is expected to begin around 1 p.m. CT. The webcast and presentation slides will be available via Entergys website at www.entergy.com.
 
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.7 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $11 billion and approximately 15,000 employees.
 
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in: (i) Entergys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and  (ii) Entergys other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; (b) uncertainties associated with rate proceedings, formula rate plans and other cost recovery mechanisms; (c) uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of major storms and recover related restoration costs;(d) nuclear plant relicensing, operating and regulatory risks, including any changes resulting from the nuclear crisis in Japan following its catastrophic earthquake and tsunami; and (e) legislative and regulatory actions, and conditions in commodity and capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements, in addition to other factors described elsewhere in this release and in subsequent securities filings.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Pre-Release") contains the non-GAAP financial measure of operational earnings per share.  Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Pre-Release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "special items".  Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses.  Management believes the discussion of operational earnings provides useful information in evaluating the ongoing results of Entergy's businesses and assists in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector.
 
The non-GAAP information in the Pre-Release is used in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  The non-GAAP information should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.  The non-GAAP information reflects an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  Investors are strongly encouraged to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.  Non-GAAP information is not standardized; therefore, it may not be possible to compare this information with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names.


