FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20110429071916.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On April 29, 2011, Entergy Corporation issued two public announcements, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto (the Earnings Releases) and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the first quarter 2011.  The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On April 29, 2011, Entergy Corporation issued the Earnings Releases, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the first quarter 2011.  The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Entergy Corporation
 
 
By:
/s/ Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
Senior Vice President and
Chief Accounting Officer
 
Dated: April 29, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
INVESTOR NEWS
 
 
April 29, 2011
NEW ORLEANS   Entergy Corporation (NYSE: ETR) reported first quarter 2011 earnings of $1.38 per share on as-reported and operational bases, as shown in Table 1 below.  A more detailed discussion of quarterly results begins on page 2 of this release.
 
Operational Earnings Highlights for First Quarter 2011
 
Results for the quarter reflect the continued benefits of constructive regulatory decisions, said .  The quarter also brought challenges to the business climate for the nuclear industry with the tragic events at the Fukushima Daiichi plant in Japan.  The U.S. Nuclear industry adheres to the most diligent regulations and emergency preparedness through extensive common mode failure analysis and superior defense in depth through design and training and preparation.  As always, we will continue our intense focus on safety and operational excellence in all aspects of our business.  Whatever learning may come from the Fukushima event will be quickly applied to our own emergency preparation and processes.
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergys chairman and chief executive officer
Entergys business highlights include the following:
Entergys senior management will host its 2011 Analyst Meeting today in New Orleans to discuss quarterly results and other business matters with investors.  Entergy will webcast its analyst meeting including a presentation by Chief Financial Officer Leo Denault, who will review quarterly results in his presentation.  This webcast is scheduled to begin at 7:30 a.m. CT on April 29, with Denaults presentation scheduled to begin at approximately 11:15 a.m. CT.  A question-and-answer session will also be webcast starting at approximately 1 p.m. CT.  The webcast and presentation slides can be accessed via Entergys web site at www.entergy.com.
th
 
Consolidated Earnings
Table 2 provides a comparative summary of consolidated earnings per share for first quarter 2011 versus 2010, including a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.  Utilitys earnings increased quarter-over-quarter as a result of higher net revenue due largely to increased weather-adjusted sales volume, as well as pricing adjustments from previous rate actions.  Weather was also significantly positive for the quarter, but less favorable than the first quarter of last year.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities first quarter 2011 operational earnings were lower than last year as a result of lower net revenue due to both lower generation and lower pricing.  Also contributing to the lower operational results at Entergy Wholesale Commodities was a decrease in other income related to decommissioning trusts.  Partially offsetting the decrease was a lower effective income tax rate due to absence of a charge related to federal healthcare legislation enacted in March of last year.  Parent and Others operational results declined in the current period compared to a year ago due to several individually insignificant items, including higher interest expense on Parent debt.  Accretion from Entergys share repurchase programs also contributed to increased earnings per share.
Detailed earnings variance analysis is included in Appendix A-1 to this release.  In addition, Appendix A-2 provides details of special items shown in Table 2 above.
Consolidated Net Cash Flow Provided by Operating Activities
Entergys net cash flow provided by operating activities in first quarter 2011 was $323 million compared to
$674 million in first quarter 2010.  The overall quarterly decrease was due primarily to:
 
Table 3 provides the components of net cash flow provided by operating activities contributed by each business with quarterly comparisons.
 
In first quarter 2011, Utilitys as-reported and operational earnings were $0.91 per share compared to $0.73 per share on the same bases in first quarter 2010.  Earnings for the Utility in the current quarter reflect higher net revenue due to increased sales volume and the net effect of rate adjustments at Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Texas, and Entergy New Orleans.  Despite significantly colder-than-normal weather in the current period, the weather effect declined compared to the near-record-setting colder-than-normal weather experienced in the first quarter of last year.
Electricity usage, in gigawatt-hour sales by customer segment, is included in Table4.  Current quarter sales reflect the following:
 
Weather-adjusted residential retail sales growth reflected both an increase in the number of customers as well as higher usage per customer.  Industrial sales have realized sustained growth since the beginning of 2010, and the first quarter of 2011 continued the trend.  Entergys service territory has benefitted from the strong national manufacturing economy as well as expansions.  Industrials in Entergys service territory also have benefitted from the need to re-stock inventory and export trends.
Table 4 provides a comparative summary of the Utilitys operational performance measures.
 
Appendix B provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
Entergy Wholesale Commodities earned $0.68 per share on as-reported and operational bases in first quarter 2011, compared to as-reported earnings of $0.47 per share and operational earnings of $0.76 per share in first quarter 2010.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities operational earnings declined largely as a result of lower net revenue due to both decreased volume and pricing.  Generation declined due primarily to an increase in forced outages at Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear fleet.  Lower other income associated with decommissioning trusts also contributed to decreased earnings.  Partially offsetting the decrease was a lower effective income tax rate resulting from the absence of a charge associated with federal health care legislation enacted in the first quarter of last year.
Table 5 provides a comparative summary of Entergy Wholesale Commodities operational performance measures.
provides capacity and generation sold forward projections for the Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear fleet.
Table 6
Parent & Other reported a loss of $(0.21) per share on as-reported and operational bases in first quarter 2011 compared to an as-reported loss of $(0.08) per share and an operational loss of $(0.16) per share in first quarter 2010.  Parent & Others operational earnings decrease was due to several individually insignificant items, including higher interest expense on parent borrowings.
Entergy affirmed its 2011 earnings guidance in the range of $6.35 to $6.85 per share on both as-reported and operational bases.  Year-over-year changes are shown as point estimates and are applied to 2010 earnings to compute the 2011 guidance midpoint.  Drivers for the 2011 guidance range are listed separately.  Because there is a range of possible outcomes associated with each earnings driver, a range is applied to the guidance midpoint to produce Entergys guidance range.  The 2011 earnings guidance is detailed in Table 7 below.
Key assumptions supporting 2011 earnings guidance are as follows:
Utility
Entergy Wholesale Commodities
Parent & Other
Share Repurchase Program
Other
Earnings guidance for 2011 should be considered in association with earnings sensitivities as shown in Table 8.  These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in operational earnings resulting from changes in various revenue and expense drivers.  Traditionally, the most significant variables for earnings drivers are utility sales for Utility and energy prices for Entergy Wholesale Commodities.  Estimated annual impacts shown in Table 8 are intended to be indicative rather than precise guidance.
Overarching Financial Aspiration
Entergy continues to aspire to deliver superior value to owners as measured by total shareholder return.  The company believes top-quartile total shareholder return is achieved by:
Long-term Financial Outlook
Entergy believes it offers a long-term, competitive utility investment opportunity combined with a valuable option represented by a unique, clean, non-utility generation business located in attractive power markets.  Table 9 summarizes the long-term financial outlook for 2010 through 2014 as of April 2011.
The long-term financial outlook should be considered in association with 2014 financial sensitivities as shown in Table 10.  These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in earnings or Adjusted EBITDA resulting from changes in business drivers.  Estimated impacts shown in Table 10 are intended to be illustrative.
 
Six appendices are presented in this section as follows:
Appendix A-1 provides details of first quarter 2011 versus 2010 as-reported and operational earnings variance analysis for Utility, Entergy Wholesale Commodities, Parent & Other, and Consolidated.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix A-2 lists special items by business with quarter-to-quarter comparisons.  Amounts are shown on both earnings per share and net income bases.  Special items are those events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses.  Special items are included in as-reported earnings per share consistent with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but are excluded from operational earnings per share.  As a result, operational earnings per share is considered a non-GAAP measure.
 
 
Appendix C-1 provides comparative financial performance measures for the current quarter.  Appendix C-2 provides historical financial performance measures and operating performance metrics for the trailing eight quarters.  Financial performance measures in both tables include those calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), as well as those that are considered non-GAAP measures.
As-reported measures are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of net income, including special items.  Operational measures are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational net income, which excludes the impact of special items.  A reconciliation of operational measures to as-reported measures is provided .
in
Appendix F
 
 
 
The capital plan for 2011 through 2013 anticipates $7.4 billion for investment, including $2.9 billion of maintenance capital, as shown inThe remaining $4.5 billion is for specific investments and other initiatives such as:
 
Appendix D
.  
 
 
Appendix E provides definitions of certain operational performance measures, as well as GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, all of which are referenced in this release.
Financial measures defined in the below table include measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (GAAP), as well as non-GAAP measures.  Non-GAAP measures are included in this release in order to provide metrics that remove the effect of less routine financial impacts from commonly used financial metrics.
-1 and -2 provide reconciliations of various non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in this release to their most comparable GAAP measure.
Appendix F
Appendix F
**********************************************************************************************************************
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in: (i) Entergys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and (ii) Entergys other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; (b) uncertainties associated with rate proceedings, formula rate plans and other cost recovery mechanisms; (c) uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of major storms and recover related restoration costs;(d) nuclear plant relicensing, operating and regulatory risks, including any changes resulting from the nuclear crisis in Japan following its catastrophic earthquake and tsunami; (e) legislative and regulatory actions; and (f) conditions in commodity and capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements, in addition to other factors described elsewhere in this release and in subsequent securities filings.
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Entergy
639 Loyola Avenue
New Orleans, LA  70113
 
News
Release
New Orleans, La.  Entergy Corporation (NYSE:ETR) today reported first quarter 2011 as-reported earnings of $248.7 million, or $1.38 per share, compared with $213.8 million, or $1.12 per share, for first quarter 2010. On an operational basis, Entergys first quarter 2011 earnings were $248.7 million, or $1.38 per share, compared with $253.7 million, or $1.33 per share, in first quarter 2010.
 
           *GAAP refers to United States generally accepted accounting principles.
   
   
   
 
Results for the quarter reflect the continued benefits of constructive regulatory decisions, said . The quarter also brought challenges to the business climate for the nuclear industry with the tragic events at the Fukushima Daiichi plant in Japan. The U.S. Nuclear industry adheres to the most diligent regulations and emergency preparedness through extensive common mode failure analysis and superior defense in depth through design and training and preparation. As always, we will continue our intense focus on safety and operational excellence in all aspects of our business. Whatever learning may come from the Fukushima event will be quickly applied to our own emergency preparation and processes.
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergys chairman and chief executive officer
 
Entergys senior management will host its 2011 Analyst Meeting today in New Orleans to discuss quarterly results and other business matters with investors. Entergy will webcast its analyst meeting including a presentation by Chief Financial Officer Leo Denault, who will review quarterly results in his presentation. This webcast is scheduled to begin at 7:30 a.m. CT on April 29th, with Denaults presentation scheduled to begin at approximately 11:15 a.m. CT. A question-and-answer session will also be webcast starting at approximately 1 p.m. CT. The webcast and presentation slides can be accessed via Entergys web site at www.entergy.com.
 
In first quarter 2011, Utilitys as-reported and operational earnings were $164.3 million, or 91 cents per share, compared to $138.6 million, or 73 cents per share, in first quarter 2010. Earnings for the Utility in the current quarter reflect higher net revenue due to increased sales volume and the net effect of rate adjustments at Entergy Arkansas, Inc., Entergy Texas, Inc. and Entergy New Orleans, Inc. Despite significantly colder-than-normal weather in the current period, the weather effect declined compared to the near-record-setting colder-than-normal weather experienced in the first quarter of last year.
 
Residential sales in first quarter 2011, on a weather-adjusted basis, increased 1.5 percent compared to first quarter 2010. Commercial and governmental sales, on a weather-adjusted basis, decreased 0.8 percent quarter over quarter. Industrial sales in the first quarter increased 9.0 percent compared to the same quarter of 2010.
 
Weather-adjusted residential retail sales growth reflected both an increase in the number of customers as well as higher usage per customer. Industrial sales have realized sustained growth since the beginning of 2010, and the first quarter of 2011 continued the trend. Entergys service territory has benefitted from the strong national manufacturing economy as well as expansions. Industrials in Entergys service territory also have benefitted from the need to re-stock inventory and export trends.
 
Today, Entergy Corporations subsidiary, Entergy Mississippi, Inc., announced that it signed an asset purchase agreement to acquire the Hinds Energy Facility, a 450 MW (summer rating) natural gas-fired combined-cycle plant located in Jackson, Miss., from KGen Hinds, LLC, a subsidiary of KGen Power Corporation. The purchase price is approximately $206 million (or $458/kW). Also, today, Entergy Corporations subsidiary, Entergy Arkansas, Inc., announced that it signed an asset purchase agreement to acquire the Hot Spring Energy Facility, a 620 MW natural gas-fired combined-cycle plant located in Hot Spring County, Ark., from KGen Hot Spring LLC, a subsidiary of KGen Power Corporation. The purchase price is approximately $253 million (or $408/kW). Entergy Mississippi and Entergy Arkansas also expect to invest in various plant upgrades at the facilities after closing.  The transactions result from a Request for Proposals that was issued in September 2009 by Entergy Services, Inc. and sought incremental long-term generation resources for the Entergy Operating Companies.  The purchases are contingent upon, among other things, obtaining necessary approvals, including full cost recovery, from various federal and state regulatory and permitting agencies. These include regulatory approvals from the Mississippi Public Service Commission, the Arkansas Public Service Commission and the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, as well as clearance under the Hart-Scott-Rodino anti-trust law. Because Hinds and Hot Spring represent a substantial portion of KGen Powers remaining assets, Delaware law requires KGen Power to obtain shareholder approval prior to selling these facilities. KGen Power intends to mail a proxy statement to its stockholders with a vote expected to be held in mid-June 2011. Closings are expected to occur in mid-2012.
 
Entergy Wholesale Commodities earned $122.6 million, or 68 cents per share, on an as-reported basis in first quarter 2011, compared to as-reported earnings of $90.0 million, or 47 per cents per share in first quarter 2010. On an operational basis, first quarter 2011 Entergy Wholesale Commodities earnings were $122.6 million, or 68 cents per share, versus $144.2 million, or 76 cents per share, in first quarter 2010. Entergy Wholesale Commodities operational earnings declined largely as a result of lower net revenue due to both decreased volume and pricing. Generation declined due primarily to an increase in forced outages at Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear fleet. Lower other income associated with decommissioning trusts also contributed to decreased earnings. Partially offsetting the decrease was a lower effective income tax rate resulting from the absence of a charge associated with federal health care legislation enacted in the first quarter of last year.
 
Parent & Other reported a loss of $38.2 million, or 21 cents per share, on an as-reported basis in first quarter 2011 compared to a loss of $14.7 million, or 8 cents per share in first quarter 2010. On an operational basis, Parent & Other reported a loss of $38.2 million, or 21 cents per share, in first quarter 2011 compared to a loss of $29.1 million, or 16 cents per share, in first quarter 2010. Parent & Others operational earnings decrease was due to several individually insignificant items, including higher interest expense on parent borrowings.
 
Entergy affirmed its 2011 earnings guidance in the range of $6.35 to $6.85 per share on both as-reported and operational bases.
 
Entergy believes it offers a long-term, competitive utility investment opportunity combined with a valuable option represented by a unique, clean, non-utility generation business located in attractive power markets. The current long-term financial outlook includes the following:
 
Earnings:
 
Capital deployment:
 
Credit quality:
 
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.7 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $11 billion and approximately 15,000 employees.
 
Additional information regarding Entergys quarterly results of operations, regulatory proceedings and other operations is available in Entergys investor news release dated April 29, 2011, a copy of which has been filed today with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 8-K and is available on Entergys investor relations website at .
www.entergy.com/investor_relations
 
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in: (i) Entergys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and (ii) Entergys other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; (b) uncertainties associated with rate proceedings, formula rate plans and other cost recovery mechanisms; (c) uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of major storms and recover related restoration costs;(d) nuclear plant relicensing, operating and regulatory risks, including any changes resulting from the nuclear crisis in Japan following its catastrophic earthquake and tsunami; (e) legislative and regulatory actions; and (f) conditions in commodity and capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements, in addition to other factors described elsewhere in this release and in subsequent securities filings.
Appendix A provides a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.

Exhibit 99.3
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Releases"), contain non-GAAP financial measures.  Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP.  Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Releases and the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
Certain non-GAAP measures in the Releases could differ from GAAP only in that the figure or ratio states or includes operational earnings per share.  Operational earnings per share is presented for each of Entergy's major business segments as well as on a consolidated basis.  Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the effect of "special items."  Special items reflect the effect on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses.  In addition, other financial measures including return on average invested capital, return on average common equity, and net margin are included on both an operational and as-reported basis.  In each case, the metrics defined as "operational" would exclude the effect of special items as defined above.  Management believes that financial metrics calculated using operational earnings could provide useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of Entergy's businesses and could assist investors in comparing Entergy's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector.
 
Other non-GAAP measures, total gross liquidity; debt to capital, excluding securitization debt; net debt to net capital, excluding securitization debt; and net debt including off-balance sheet liabilities, excluding securitization debt; are measures Entergy uses internally for management and board discussions and cash budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business.  Entergy believes the above data could provide useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial flexibility, and could assist investors in comparing Entergy's cash availability to the cash availability of others in the energy sector.
 
The non-GAAP financial measures and other reported adjusted items in Entergy's Releases are presented in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  These non-GAAP financial measures should not be used to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.  These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, could provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  Investors are strongly encouraged to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.  Non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized; therefore, it might not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names.
 
 


