FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20110511164222.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
Entergy Corporation (Entergy) held its 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (Annual Meeting) on May 6, 2011 in The Woodlands, Texas.  At the Annual Meeting, Entergys shareholders, upon the recommendation of the Board of Directors, approved the 2011 Equity Ownership and Long Term Cash Incentive Plan of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries (the Plan).  The Plan authorizes the Personnel Committee of the Board of Directors to provide equity-based compensation of up to 5,500,000 shares of Entergys common stock in the form of stock options, stock appreciation rights (SARs), restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares or performance units.  Our directors, officers and other employees are eligible to receive awards under the Plan.
The Plan provides for a double trigger (instead of single trigger) accelerated vesting following a change in control, establishment of minimum vesting periods for all awards (three years for service-based vesting and one year for performance-based vesting, subject to limited exceptions) and a requirement that all awards are subject to the clawback policy adopted by our Board of Directors.  It also provides that no underwater stock options or SARs will be repriced without shareholder approval and that no stock options or SARs will be granted with an exercise price less than the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant. This summary of the Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Plan, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference. A more detailed summary of the Plan can be found in Entergys definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting (the Proxy Statement), which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on March 24, 2011.
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
The matters that were submitted to our shareholders for approval at the Annual Meeting and the voting results with respect to each matter are set forth below.  The proposals related to each matter are described in detail in Entergys Proxy Statement.
 
Proposal 1
Entergys shareholders elected eleven directors to serve until the next annual meeting with the following vote:
 
Proposal 2
Entergys shareholders ratified the selection of Deloitte & Touche as our independent registered public accountants for 2011 as set forth below:
Proposal 3
Entergys shareholders approved the advisory vote on executive compensation as set forth below:
Proposal 4
In the advisory vote on the frequency of future shareholder advisory votes on Entergys executive compensation, votes were cast in favor of holding future advisory votes every year, every two years or every three years as follows:
In accordance with the results of this advisory vote, Entergy intends to hold future advisory votes on the compensation of its named executive officers (or say on pay) annually until it next holds an advisory vote on the frequency of say-on-pay votes as required under SEC rules.
 
Proposal 5
Entergys shareholders approved the 2011 Equity Ownership and Long Term Cash Incentive Plan of Entergy Corporation and Subsidiaries as set forth below:
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
(d)  .
Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


