FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20110802071849.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
 
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
 
On August 2, 2011, Entergy Corporation issued two public announcements, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto (the Earnings Releases) and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the second quarter 2011.  The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
On August 2, 2011, Entergy Corporation issued the Earnings Releases, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the second quarter 2011.  The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01.
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Entergy Corporation
 
 
By:
/s/ Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
Senior Vice President and
Chief Accounting Officer
 
Dated: August 2, 2011
 

INVESTOR NEWS
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
August 2, 2011
 
NEW ORLEANS  
Entergy Corporation (NYSE: ETR) reported second quarter 2011 earnings of $1.76 per share on as-reported and operational bases, as shown in Table 1 below.  A more detailed discussion of quarterly results begins on page 2 of this release.
Operational Earnings Highlights for Second Quarter 2011
 
The Utility business continued on track to achieve its asset portfolio objectives with regulatory filings for a new 550-megawatt combined-cycle gas-fired unit at our Ninemile Point plant site and the pending acquisitions of the 620-megawatt Hot Spring and 450-megawatt Hinds existing combined-cycle plants, said .  These highly efficient facilities will provide reliable, low-cost energy to serve the growing needs of our customers while reducing the overall consumption of fossil fuels.  At Entergy Wholesale Commodities, license renewal efforts continued.  We also announced that we will proceed with the 29th refueling outage at Vermont Yankee following a careful review of the merits of our case and the record from the most recent hearing in Federal District Court.
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergys chairman and chief executive officer
We continue to work with regulators to gain approval to join the MISO regional transmission organization that would stretch from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico, Leonard said.  Despite the various hurdles we still face to accomplish our major initiatives, we believe 2011 is shaping up to be a transformational year in achieving our corporate strategy.
Entergys business highlights include the following:
 
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10 a.m. CT on Tuesday, August 2, 2011, with access by telephone, (719) 457-2080, confirmation code 8424061.  The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergys website at .  A replay of the teleconference will be available through August 9, 2011, by dialing (719) 457-0820, confirmation code 8424061.  The replay will also be available on Entergys website at .
www.entergy.com
www.entergy.com
Consolidated Earnings
Table 2 provides a comparative summary of consolidated earnings per share for second quarter and year-to-date 2011 versus 2010, including a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.  Utilitys earnings increased quarter-over-quarter as a result of higher net revenue due to increased retail sales volume as well as pricing adjustments from previous rate actions.  Lower interest expense also contributed to the higher Utility earnings.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities second quarter 2011 operational earnings were lower than the same quarter last year as a result of lower net revenue due primarily to lower pricing.  Also contributing to the lower operational results at Entergy Wholesale Commodities was a higher effective income tax rate.  Parent and Others operational results increased in the current period compared to a year ago due primarily to lower income tax expense on Parent & Other activities.  Entergys results for the current period also reflect the positive effect of accretion associated with the companys share repurchase programs.
Detailed earnings variance analysis is included in Appendix A-1 and Appendix A-2 to this release.  In addition, Appendix A-3 provides details of special items shown in Table 2 above.
Consolidated Net Cash Flow Provided by Operating Activities
Entergys net cash flow provided by operating activities in second quarter 2011 was $654 million compared to $794 million in second quarter 2010.  The overall quarterly decrease was due primarily to:
 
Table 3 provides the components of net cash flow provided by operating activities contributed by each business with quarterly and year-to-date comparisons.
In second quarter 2011, Utilitys as-reported and operational earnings were $1.39 per share compared to $1.18 per share on the same bases in second quarter 2010.  Earnings for the Utility in the current quarter reflect higher net revenue due to increased sales volume, including the effects of significantly warmer-than-normal weather, and the net effect of rate adjustments at Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Texas and Entergy New Orleans.  Lower interest expense resulting from refinancing of long-term debt at lower interest rates as well as the absence of an interest charge recorded on a fuel audit refund in 2010 also contributed to the Utilitys earnings increase.
Electricity usage, in gigawatt-hour sales by customer segment, is included in Table4.  Current quarter sales reflect the following:
 
 
Retail sales growth was positive for the quarter at 2.9 percent, or 1.1 percent on a weather-adjusted basis.  Results were mixed across the jurisdictions.  Entergy Texas produced the strongest sales growth, including a 15.1 percent increase in industrial sales due largely to expansions.  Entergy Arkansas sales were down slightly compared to the same period a year ago with a decrease in industrial sales.  Residential sales increased 3.7 percent as compared to the second quarter of 2010, but were slightly below last year on a weather-adjusted basis, reflecting an increase in the number of customers but a decrease in the usage per customer.  Industrial sales growth leveled off somewhat after significant growth since the beginning of 2010.  Entergys service territory continues to benefit from expansions, while there has been some pullback in the paper and wood segments and small industrials.
Table 4 provides a comparative summary of the Utilitys operational performance measures.
 
Appendix B provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
 
Entergy Wholesale Commodities earned $0.36 per share on as-reported and operational bases in second quarter 2011, compared to as-reported earnings of $0.55 per share and operational earnings of $0.63 per share in second quarter 2010.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities operational earnings declined largely as a result of lower net revenue with decreased pricing.  A higher effective income tax rate resulting from changes in Michigan tax law stemming from legislation enacted in May 2011 also contributed to the Entergy Wholesale Commodities earnings decline.
Table 5 provides a comparative summary of Entergy Wholesale Commodities operational performance measures.
Table 6 provides capacity and generation sold forward projections for Entergy Wholesale Commodities.
Parent & Other reported as-reported and operational earnings of $0.01 per share in second quarter 2011 compared to a loss of $(0.08) per share on an as-reported basis and $(0.10) per share on an operational basis in the second quarter of 2010.  Lower income tax expense on Parent & Other activities was the primary factor driving results for the quarter.  Income tax expense was lower due to reversal of a tax reserve.
Entergy affirmed its 2011 earnings guidance in the range of $6.35 to $6.85 per share on both as-reported and operational bases.  Year-over-year changes are shown as point estimates and are applied to 2010 earnings to compute the 2011 guidance midpoint.  Drivers for the 2011 guidance range are listed separately.  Because there is a range of possible outcomes associated with each earnings driver, a range is applied to the guidance midpoint to produce Entergys guidance range.  The 2011 earnings guidance is detailed inTable 7 below.
 
 
Key assumptions supporting 2011 earnings guidance are as follows:
Utility
Entergy Wholesale Commodities
Parent & Other
Share Repurchase Program
Other
Earnings guidance for 2011 should be considered in association with earnings sensitivities as shown in Table 8.  These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in operational earnings resulting from changes in various revenue and expense drivers.  Traditionally, the most significant variables for earnings drivers are utility sales for Utility and energy prices for Entergy Wholesale Commodities.  Estimated annual impacts shown in Table 8 are intended to be indicative rather than precise guidance.
(
f
)  Based on 2010 average fully diluted shares outstanding of approximately 188 million.
Overarching Financial Aspiration
Entergy continues to aspire to deliver superior value to owners as measured by total shareholder return.  The company believes top-quartile total shareholder return is achieved by:
Long-term Financial Outlook
Entergy believes it offers a long-term, competitive utility investment opportunity combined with a valuable option represented by a unique, clean, non-utility generation business located in attractive power markets.  Table 9 summarizes the long-term financial outlook for 2010 through 2014.
The long-term financial outlook should be considered in association with 2014 financial sensitivities as shown in Table 10.  These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in earnings or Adjusted EBITDA resulting from changes in business drivers.  Estimated impacts shown in Table 10 are intended to be illustrative.
Six appendices are presented in this section as follows:
Appendix A-1 and Appendix A-2 provide details of second quarter and year-to-date 2011 vs. 2010 as-reported and operational earnings variance analysis for Utility, Entergy Wholesale Commodities, Parent & Other, and Consolidated.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix A-3 lists special items by business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons.  Amounts are shown on both earnings per share and net income bases.  Special items are those events that are not routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses.  Special items are included in as-reported earnings per share consistent with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but are excluded from operational earnings per share.  As a result, operational earnings per share is considered a non-GAAP measure.
 
 
 
 
(
x
)  Applies to sales made under Entergys FERC-jurisdictional OATT.
Appendix C-1 provides comparative financial performance measures for the current quarter.  Appendix C-2 provides historical financial performance measures and operating performance metrics for the trailing eight quarters. Financial performance measures in both tables include those calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), as well as those that are considered non-GAAP measures.
As-reported measures are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of net income, including special items.  Operational measures are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational net income, which excludes the impact of special items.  A reconciliation of operational measures to as-reported measures is provided in .
Appendix F
 
 
The capital plan for 2011 through 2013 anticipates $7.4 billion for investment, including $2.9 billion of maintenance capital, as shown in Appendix D.  The remaining $4.5 billion is for specific investments and other initiatives such as:
 
Appendix E provides definitions of certain operational performance measures, as well as GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, all of which are referenced in this release.
Financial measures defined in the below table include measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (GAAP), as well as non-GAAP measures.  Non-GAAP measures are included in this release in order to provide metrics that remove the effect of not routine financial impacts from commonly used financial metrics.
 
-1 and -2 provide reconciliations of various non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in this release to their most comparable GAAP measure.
Appendix F
Appendix F
*********************************************************************************************************************************
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in: (i) Entergys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010; (ii) Entergys Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011; and (iii) Entergys other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; (b) uncertainties associated with rate proceedings, formula rate plans and other cost recovery mechanisms; (c) uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of major storms and recover related restoration costs; (d) nuclear plant relicensing, operating and regulatory risks, including any changes resulting from the nuclear crisis in Japan following its catastrophic earthquake and tsunami; (e) legislative and regulatory actions, and risks and uncertainties associated with claims or litigation by or against Entergy and its subsidiaries; and (f) conditions in commodity and capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements, in addition to other factors described elsewhere in this release and in subsequent securities filings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Entergy
639 Loyola Avenue
New Orleans, LA  70113
 
News
Release
Exhibit 99.2
New Orleans, La.  Entergy Corporation (NYSE:ETR) today reported second quarter 2011 as-reported earnings of $315.6 million, or $1.76 per share, compared with $315.3 million, or $1.65 per share, for second quarter 2010. On an operational basis, Entergys second quarter 2011 earnings were $315.6 million, or $1.76 per share, compared with $325.7 million, or $1.71 per share, in second quarter 2010.
 
      *GAAP refers to United States generally accepted accounting principles.
 
 
 
 
The Utility business continued on track to achieve its asset portfolio objectives with regulatory filings for a new 550-megawatt combined-cycle gas-fired unit at our Ninemile Point plant site and the pending acquisitions of the 620-megawatt Hot Spring and 450-megawatt Hinds existing combined-cycle plants, said . These highly efficient facilities will provide reliable, low-cost energy to serve the growing needs of our customers while reducing the overall consumption of fossil fuels. At Entergy Wholesale Commodities, license renewal efforts continued. We also announced that we will proceed with the 29th refueling outage at Vermont Yankee following a careful review of the merits of our case and the record from the most recent hearing in Federal District Court.
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergys chairman and chief executive officer
 
We continue to work with regulators to gain approval to join the MISO regional transmission organization that would stretch from Canada to the Gulf of Mexico, Leonard said. Despite the various hurdles we still face to accomplish our major initiatives, we believe 2011 is shaping up to be a transformational year in achieving our corporate strategy.
 
 
 
 
 
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10 a.m. CT on Tuesday, Aug. 2, 2011, with access by telephone, (719) 457-2080, confirmation code 8424061. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergys website at www.entergy.com. A replay of the teleconference will be available through Aug. 9, 2011, by dialing (719) 457-0820, confirmation code 8424061. The replay will also be available on Entergys website at www.entergy.com.
 
In second quarter 2011, Utilitys as-reported and operational earnings were $248.4 million, or $1.39 per share, compared to $225.8 million, or $1.18 per share, on the same bases in second quarter 2010. Earnings for the Utility in the current quarter reflect higher net revenue due to increased sales volume, including the effects of significantly warmer-than-normal weather, and the net effect of rate adjustments at Entergy Arkansas, Entergy Texas and Entergy New Orleans. Lower interest expense resulting from refinancing of long-term debt at lower interest rates as well as the absence of an interest charge recorded on a fuel audit refund in 2010 also contributed to the Utilitys earnings increase.
 
Residential sales in second quarter 2011, on a weather-adjusted basis, decreased 0.5 percent compared to second quarter 2010. Commercial and governmental sales, on a weather-adjusted basis, increased 0.3 percent quarter over quarter. Industrial sales in the second quarter increased 2.8 percent compared to the same quarter of 2010.
 
 
 
 
Retail sales growth was positive for the quarter at 2.9 percent, or 1.1 percent on a weather-adjusted basis. Results were mixed across the jurisdictions. Entergy Texas produced the strongest sales growth, including a 15.1 percent increase in industrial sales due largely to expansions. Entergy Arkansas sales were down slightly compared to the same period a year ago with a decrease in industrial sales. Residential sales increased 3.7 percent as compared to the second quarter of 2010, but were slightly below last year on a weather-adjusted basis, reflecting an increase in the number of customers but a decrease in the usage per customer. Industrial sales growth leveled off somewhat after significant growth since the beginning of 2010. Entergys service territory continues to benefit from expansions, while there has been some pullback in the paper and wood segments and small industrials.
 
Entergy Wholesale Commodities earned $64.9 million, or 36 cents per share, on as-reported and operational bases in second quarter 2011 compared to as-reported earnings of $103.9 million, or 55 per cents per share, and operational earnings of $118.3 million, or 63 cents per share, in second quarter 2010. Entergy Wholesale Commodities operational earnings declined largely as a result of lower net revenue with decreased pricing. A higher effective income tax rate resulting from changes in Michigan tax law stemming from legislation enacted in May 2011 also contributed to the Entergy Wholesale Commodities earnings decline.
 
Parent & Other reported as-reported and operational earnings of $2.3 million, or 1 cent per share, in second quarter 2011 compared to a loss of $14.4 million, or 8 cents per share, on an as-reported basis and a loss of $18.5 million, or 10 cents per share, on an operational basis in the second quarter of 2010. Lower income tax expense on Parent & Other activities was the primary factor driving results for the quarter. Income tax expense was lower due to reversal of a tax reserve.
 
 
 
 
Entergy affirmed its 2011 earnings guidance in the range of $6.35 to $6.85 per share on both as-reported and operational bases.
 
Overarching Financial Aspiration
 
Entergy continues to aspire to deliver superior value to owners as measured by total shareholder return. The company believes top-quartile total shareholder return is achieved by:
 
 
Long-term Financial Outlook
 
Entergy believes it offers a long-term, competitive utility investment opportunity combined with a valuable option represented by a unique, clean, non-utility generation business located in attractive power markets. The current long-term financial outlook includes the following:
 
 
 
 
Earnings:
 
 
Capital deployment:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Credit quality:
 
 
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.7 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $11 billion and approximately 15,000 employees.
 
 
 
 
Additional information regarding Entergys quarterly results of operations, regulatory proceedings and other operations is available in Entergys investor news release dated Aug. 2, 2011, a copy of which has been filed today with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 8-K and is available on Entergys investor relations website at .
www.entergy.com/investor_relations
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in: (i) Entergys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010; (ii) Entergys Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011; and (iii) Entergys other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; (b) uncertainties associated with rate proceedings, formula rate plans and other cost recovery mechanisms; (c) uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of major storms and recover related restoration costs; (d) nuclear plant relicensing, operating and regulatory risks, including any changes resulting from the nuclear crisis in Japan following its catastrophic earthquake and tsunami; (e) legislative and regulatory actions and risks and uncertainties associated with claims or litigation by or against Entergy and its subsidiaries; and (f) conditions in commodity and capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements, in addition to other factors described elsewhere in this release and in subsequent securities filings.
 
 
 
Appendix A provides a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Releases"), contain non-GAAP financial measures.  Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP.  Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Releases and the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
Certain non-GAAP measures in the Releases could differ from GAAP only in that the figure or ratio states or includes operational earnings per share.  Operational earnings per share is presented for each of Entergy's reportable business segments as well as on a consolidated basis.  Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the effect of "special items."  Special items reflect the effect on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses.  In addition, other financial measures including return on average invested capital, return on average common equity, and net margin are included on both an operational and as-reported basis.  In each case, the metrics defined as "operational" would exclude the effect of special items as defined above.  Management believes that financial metrics calculated using operational earnings could provide useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of Entergy's businesses and could assist investors in comparing Entergy's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector.
 
Other non-GAAP measures, total gross liquidity; debt to capital, excluding securitization debt; net debt to net capital, excluding securitization debt; and net debt to net capital, including off-balance sheet liabilities, excluding securitization debt; are measures Entergy uses internally for management and board discussions and cash budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business.  Entergy believes the above data could provide useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial flexibility, and could assist investors in comparing Entergy's cash availability to the cash availability of others in the energy sector.
 
The non-GAAP financial measures and other reported adjusted items in Entergy's Releases are presented in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  These non-GAAP financial measures should not be used to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.  These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, could provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  Investors are strongly encouraged to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.  Non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized; therefore, it might not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names.
 


