FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20110208071804.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On February 8, 2011, Entergy Corporation issued two public announcements, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto (the Earnings Releases) and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the fourth quarter 2010.  The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
On February 8, 2011, Entergy Corporation issued the Earnings Releases, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the fourth quarter 2010.  The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Entergy Corporation
 
 
 
By:
/s/ Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
Senior Vice President and
Chief Accounting Officer
 
Dated: February 8, 2011
 

 
 
 
 
INVESTOR NEWS
 Exhibit 99.1
February 8, 2011
NEW ORLEANS   Entergy Corporation reported fourth quarter 2010 earnings of $1.26 per share on an as-reported basis and $1.30 per share on an operational basis, as shown in Table 1 below. A more detailed discussion of quarterly results begins on page 2 of this release.
 
 
Operational Earnings Highlights for Fourth Quarter 2010
 
 Once again our businesses delivered strong operational performance and for the sixth year in a row we achieved record operational earnings per share, said .  Our efforts in 2010 have positioned us for future success.  The Utilitys regulatory progress, including rate case settlements in Arkansas and Texas, and future opportunities for productive investments provide one of the best growth stories in the industry.  The execution of the reorganization to establish Entergy Wholesale Commodities further enhances our focus on license renewal efforts.  And as EWC faces challenging power markets, we are largely hedged in the upcoming years to provide certainty in a bearish environment.
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergys chairman and chief executive officer
Entergys business highlights include the following:
 
 
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10:00 a.m. CT on Tuesday, February 8, 2011, with access by telephone, 719-457-2080, confirmation code 2202485.  The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergys Web site at .  A replay of the teleconference will be available through February 15, 2011 by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 2202485.  The replay will also be available on Entergys Web site at .
www.entergy.com
www.entergy.com
Consolidated Earnings
Table 2 provides a comparative summary of consolidated earnings per share for fourth quarter 2010 versus 2009, including a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.  Beginning this quarter, Entergy has revised its business segment disclosures to reflect the internal reorganization announced in June 2010 combining all non-utility generation into Entergy Wholesale Commodities, or EWC.  A portion of EWC was previously reported in Parent & Other.  The Utility segment is unchanged.
Utility earnings declined quarter-over-quarter due primarily to higher non-fuel operation and maintenance expense.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities fourth quarter 2010 operational earnings were below last year as a result of lower net revenue and a higher effective income tax rate, partially offset by a gain on sale of a power plant.  Also, lower non-fuel operation and maintenance expense offset a reduction in other income.  Parent & Other reported lower operational results due primarily to several individually insignificant items including higher interest expense.
Detailed earnings variance analysis is included in Appendix A-1 and Appendix A-2 to this release.  In addition, Appendix A-3 provides details of special items shown in Table 2 above.
Consolidated Net Cash Flow Provided by Operating Activities
Entergys net cash flow provided by operating activities in fourth quarter 2010 was $761 million compared to $924 million in fourth quarter 2009.  In the prior year period, an intercompany transaction that netted to zero on a consolidated basis resulted in significant offsetting variances between Entergy Wholesale Commodities and Parent & Other.
The overall quarterly decrease was due primarily to:
 
 
Partially offsetting these decreases was:
 
 
For the year 2010, Entergys operating cash flow was $3,926 million versus $2,933 million last year.  An intercompany transaction that netted to zero on a consolidated basis resulted in significant offsetting variances between Entergy Wholesale Commodities and Parent & Other.
The overall increase for the year was due primarily to:
 
 
Partially offsetting these increases was:
 
Table 3 provides the components of net cash flow provided by operating activities contributed by each business with quarterly and year-to-date comparisons.
In fourth quarter 2010, Utilitys as-reported and operational earnings were $0.63 per share compared to $0.72 per share in fourth quarter 2009.  Utility fourth quarter 2010 earnings decline is due primarily to higher fossil outage spending, the timing of reliability-related spending, and higher compensation and benefit costs.  Providing a partial offset is the net effect of higher other income and Utility net revenue.  After excluding the effect of a regulatory item that was offset in other income, and the absence of 2009 adjustments, net revenue increased during the quarter.  This revenue improvement resulted from higher sales, including favorable weather, and pricing adjustments from previous regulatory actions.
Electricity usage, in gigawatt-hour sales by customer segment, is included in Table4.  Current quarter sales reflect the following:
 
 
The quarter-to-quarter increase in weather-adjusted sales in the residential sector reflected growth in Arkansas, Louisiana and New Orleans as well as commercial sales growth in all jurisdictions.  Growth in industrial sales reflected industrial expansion, as well as increasing economic activity (although at a slower pace than earlier in 2010 as the recovery matures) across small, mid-sized and large customers.  Chemicals, refining, and miscellaneous manufacturing sectors led the improvement among the large industrial customer segment, partially offset by a decline in pulp and paper.
Both quarterly periods reflected tax items which reduced the effective income tax rate versus statutory rates.  Favorable tax reserve adjustments recorded in fourth quarter 2010 were due primarily to an improved estimate based on completing the 2009 tax return in 2010.  In 2009, a favorable tax reserve adjustment resulted from a Louisiana Department of Revenue private letter ruling.  As a result, the quarter-over-quarter income tax variance was insignificant.
For the year 2010, the Utility earned $4.33 per share on as-reported and operational bases, compared to $3.53 per share in 2009.  The increase in 2010 was driven by higher Utility net revenue due primarily to increased sales volumes across all customer classes, including the significant effect from favorable weather throughout the year and the net effect of pricing adjustments from previous rate actions.  Also contributing to the Utility earnings increase in 2010 was lower depreciation and amortization expense and accretion from Entergys share repurchase programs.  Partially offsetting these items were higher non-fuel operation and maintenance expense driven by fossil outage spending, reliability-related spending, and compensation and benefits costs; higher interest expense; and increased taxes other than income taxes.
Table 4 provides a comparative summary of the Utilitys operational performance measures.
Appendix B provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
Entergy Wholesale Commodities earned $0.83 per share on an as-reported basis in fourth quarter 2010, compared to as-reported earnings of $1.04 per share in fourth quarter 2009.  On an operational basis, fourth quarter 2010 Entergy Wholesale Commodities earnings were $0.87 per share versus $1.10 per share in the last quarter of the prior year.  Earnings decreased at Entergy Wholesale Commodities as a result of lower net revenue due primarily to additional planned and unplanned outages days at EWCs nuclear plants.  Net revenue also reflected lower pricing for the EWC portfolio of both nuclear and non-nuclear wholesale assets.  In addition, a reduction in other income associated with decommissioning trusts and a higher effective income tax rate contributed to the overall quarter-over-quarter decline.  Partially offsetting these items in operational results was a gain on sale of the Harrison County power plant and lower non-fuel operation and maintenance expense.
For the year 2010, Entergy Wholesale Commodities earned $2.59 per share on an as-reported basis and $3.13 per share on an operational basis.  This compares to as-reported earnings of $3.26 per share and operational earnings of $3.49 per share in 2009.  The decrease in Entergy Wholesale Commodities earnings in the current year was driven by lower net revenue due to lower pricing and lower generation resulting from increased planned and unplanned outage days at EWCs nuclear plants.  Higher non-fuel operation and maintenance expense also contributed to the lower results, with a write-off of capitalized engineering costs associated with a potential uprate project, costs for tritium remediation work at the Vermont Yankee site, and increased compensation and benefits costs being the primary factors.  In addition, the 2010 effective income tax rate was higher than 2009.  Partially offsetting these items was the gain on sale noted above, lower interest expense and accretion from Entergys share repurchase programs.  In addition, the absence of significant impairments on EWCs decommissioning trust funds recorded in 2009 were partially offset by lower realized earnings on decommissioning trust investments, also reflected in other income.
Table 5 provides a comparative summary of the operational performance measures for Entergy Wholesale Commodities.
Table 6 provides capacity and generation sold forward projections for the Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear fleet.
Parent & Other reported a loss of $(0.20) per share on as-reported and operational bases in fourth quarter 2010 compared to an as-reported loss of $(0.12) per share and an operational loss of $(0.07) per share in fourth quarter 2009.  Parent & Others operational results declined during the quarter due to several individually insignificant items including higher interest expense on Parent debt.
For the year 2010, Parent & Other reported a loss of $(0.26) per share on an as-reported basis compared to a loss of $(0.49) per share in the prior year.  On an operational basis, Parent & Other recorded a loss of $(0.36) per share in 2010, which essentially equaled the $(0.35) per share reported in 2009.  Lower income taxes in operational results were offset by a reduction in other income associated with the elimination of higher affiliate dividend income at the Utility.
Earnings Guidance
Entergy affirmed its 2011 earnings guidance in the range of $6.35 to $6.85 per share on both as-reported and operational bases.  Year-over-year changes are shown as point estimates and are applied to 2010 earnings to compute the 2011 guidance midpoint.  Drivers for the 2011 guidance range are listed separately.  Because there is a range of possible outcomes associated with each earnings driver, a range is applied to the guidance midpoint to produce Entergys guidance range.  The 2011 earnings guidance is detailed in Table 7 below.
(g)  Updated February 2011 to reflect 2010 final results.
Key assumptions supporting 2011 earnings guidance are as follows:
Utility
 
Entergy Wholesale Commodities
 
Parent & Other
 
Share Repurchase Program
 
Other
 
 
Earnings guidance for 2011 should be considered in association with earnings sensitivities as shown in Table 8.  These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in operational earnings resulting from changes in various revenue and expense drivers.  Traditionally, the most significant variables for earnings drivers are utility sales for Utility and energy prices for Entergy Wholesale Commodities.  Estimated annual impacts shown in Table 8 are intended to be indicative rather than precise guidance.
(h) Based on 2010 average fully diluted shares outstanding of 188 million.
(
i
)  Based on EWC nuclear portfolio.
Long-term Financial Outlook
Entergy believes it offers a long-term, competitive utility investment opportunity combined with a valuable option represented by a unique, clean, non-utility generation business located in attractive power markets.  Table 9 summarizes the long-term financial outlook for 2010 through 2014 as of October 2010.
The long-term financial outlook should be considered in association with 2014 financial sensitivities as shown in Table 10.  These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in earnings or Adjusted EBITDA resulting from changes in business drivers.  Estimated impacts shown in Table 10 are intended to be illustrative.
(j)   Based on estimated 2011 average fully diluted shares outstanding of approximately 180 million.
(k)  Based on EWC nuclear portfolio.  Assumes successful license renewal of all plants.
(
l
)   Adjusted EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization and interest and dividend income, excluding decommissioning expense and other than temporary impairment losses on decommissioning trust fund assets.
Six appendices are presented in this section as follows:
Appendix A-1 and Appendix A-2 provide details of fourth quarter and year-to-date 2010 vs. 2009 as-reported and operational earnings variance analysis for Utility, Entergy Wholesale Commodities, and Parent & Other.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix A-3 lists special items by business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons.  Amounts are shown on both earnings per share and net income bases.  Special items are those events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses.  Special items are included in as-reported earnings per share consistent with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but are excluded from operational earnings per share.  As a result, operational earnings per share is considered a non-GAAP measure.
 
 
 
 
 
-1 provides comparative financial performance measures for the current quarter.  -2 provides historical financial performance measures and operating performance metrics for the trailing eight quarters.  Financial performance measures in both tables include those calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), as well as those that are considered non-GAAP measures.
Appendix C
Appendix C
As-reported measures are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of net income, including special items.  Operational measures are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational net income, which excludes the impact of special items.  A reconciliation of operational measures to as-reported measures is provided .
in
Appendix F
 
 
 
The capital plan for 2011 through 2013 anticipates $7.4 billion for investment, including $2.9 billion of maintenance capital, as shown in Appendix D-1.  The remaining $4.5 billion is for specific investments and other initiatives such as:
 
The Utility 2011 through 2013 capital plan is comprised of investments associated with generation, distribution, and transmission operations.  Planned maintenance capital of $2.6 billion is split approximately 50 percent distribution, 25 percent transmission, 15 percent generation, and 10 percent other. Appendix D-2 provides an allocation of the Utility $3.7 billion other capital commitments for 2011 through 2013.  Estimated annual amounts shown in Appendix D-2 are intended to be indicative and are subject to change.
 
Appendix E provides definitions of certain operational performance measures, as well as GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, all of which are referenced in this release.
Financial measures defined in the below table include measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (GAAP), as well as non-GAAP measures.  Non-GAAP measures are included in this release in order to provide metrics that remove the effect of less routine financial impacts from commonly used financial metrics.
-1 and -2 provide reconciliations of various non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in this release to their most comparable GAAP measure.
Appendix F
Appendix F
**********************************************************************************************************************
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including          (a) those factors discussed in:  (i) Entergys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009; (ii) Entergys Form 10-Qs for the quarters ended March 31, 2010, June 30, 2010, and September 30, 2010; and (iii) Entergys other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; (b) uncertainties associated with rate proceedings, formula rate plans and other cost recovery mechanisms; (c) uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of major storms and recover related restoration costs; (d) nuclear operating and regulatory risks; (e) legislative and regulatory actions; and (f) conditions in commodity and capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements, in addition to other factors described elsewhere in this release and in subsequent securities filings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Entergy
639 Loyola Avenue
New Orleans, LA  70113
Exhibit 99.2
New Orleans, La.  Entergy Corporation (NYSE:ETR) today reported fourth quarter 2010 as-reported earnings of $228.3 million, or $1.26 per share, compared with $313.8 million, or $1.64 per share, for fourth quarter 2009. On an operational basis, Entergys fourth quarter 2010 earnings were $235.0 million, or $1.30 per share, compared with $334.9 million, or $1.75 per share, in fourth quarter 2009. For the year, Entergys as-reported earnings were $1.3 billion, or $6.66 per share, and operational earnings were $1.3 billion, or $7.10 per share. These results compare with 2009 as-reported earnings of $1.2 billion, or $6.30 per share, and operational earnings of $1.3 billion, or $6.67 per share.
 
Beginning this quarter, Entergy has revised its business segment disclosures to reflect the internal reorganization announced in June 2010 combining all non-utility generation into Entergy Wholesale Commodities, or EWC. A portion of EWC was previously reported in Parent & Other. The Utility segment is unchanged.
 
         
*GAAP refers to United States generally accepted accounting principles.
 
Once again our businesses delivered strong operational performance and for the sixth year in a row we achieved record operational earnings per share, said . Our efforts in 2010 have positioned us for future success. The Utilitys regulatory progress, including rate case settlements in Arkansas and Texas, and future opportunities for productive investments provide one of the best growth stories in the industry. The execution of the reorganization to establish Entergy Wholesale Commodities further enhances our focus on license renewal efforts. And as EWC faces challenging power markets, we are largely hedged in the upcoming years to provide certainty in a bearish environment.
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergys chairman and chief executive officer
 
 
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10 a.m. CT on Tuesday, Feb. 8, 2011, with access by telephone, 719-457-2080, confirmation code 2202485. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergys website at . A replay of the teleconference will be available through Feb. 15, 2011, by dialing 719-457-0820, confirmation code 2202485. The replay will also be available on Entergys website at .
www.entergy.com
www.entergy.com
 
In fourth quarter 2010, Utilitys as-reported and operational earnings were $114.3 million, or 63 cents per share, compared to $137.9 million, or 72 cents per share, in fourth quarter 2009. Utility fourth quarter 2010 earnings decline is due primarily to higher fossil outage spending, the timing of reliability-related spending, and higher compensation and benefit costs. Providing a partial offset is the net effect of higher other income and Utility net revenue. After excluding the effect of a regulatory item that was offset in other income, and the absence of 2009 adjustments, net revenue increased during the quarter. This revenue improvement resulted from higher sales, including favorable weather, and pricing adjustments from previous regulatory actions.
 
Residential sales in fourth quarter 2010, on a weather-adjusted basis, increased 0.6 percent compared to fourth quarter 2009. Commercial and governmental sales, on a weather-adjusted basis, increased 1.5 percent quarter over quarter. Industrial sales in the fourth quarter increased 7.0 percent compared to the same quarter of 2009.
 
The quarter-to-quarter increase in weather-adjusted sales in the residential sector reflected growth in Arkansas, Louisiana and New Orleans, as well as commercial sales growth in all jurisdictions. Growth in industrial sales reflected industrial expansion, as well as increasing economic activity (although at a slower pace than earlier in 2010 as the recovery matures) across small, mid-sized and large customers. Chemicals, refining and miscellaneous manufacturing sectors led the improvement among the large industrial customer segment, partially offset by a decline in pulp and paper.
 
For the year 2010, the Utility earned $812.4 million, or $4.33 per share, on as-reported and operational bases, compared to $691.6 million, or $3.53 per share, in 2009. The increase in 2010 was driven by higher Utility net revenue due primarily to increased sales volumes across all customer classes, including the significant effect from favorable weather throughout the year and the net effect of pricing adjustments from previous rate actions. Also contributing to the Utility earnings increase in 2010 was lower depreciation and amortization expense and accretion from Entergys share repurchase programs. Partially offsetting these items were higher non-fuel operation and maintenance expense driven by fossil outage spending, reliability-related spending, and compensation and benefits costs; higher interest expense; and increased taxes other than income taxes.
 
Entergy Wholesale Commodities earned $149.9 million, or 83 cents per share, on an as-reported basis in fourth quarter 2010, compared to as-reported earnings of $197.9 million, or $1.04 per share in fourth quarter 2009. On an operational basis, fourth quarter 2010 Entergy Wholesale Commodities earnings were $156.7 million, or 87 cents per share, versus $209.9 million, or $1.10 per share, in the last quarter of the prior year. Earnings decreased at Entergy Wholesale Commodities as a result of lower net revenue due primarily to additional planned and unplanned outage days at EWCs nuclear plants. Net revenue also reflected lower pricing for the EWC portfolio of both nuclear and non-nuclear wholesale assets. In addition, a reduction in other income associated with decommissioning trusts and a higher effective income tax rate contributed to the overall quarter-over-quarter decline. Partially offsetting these items in operational results was a gain on sale of the Harrison County power plant and lower non-fuel operation and maintenance expense.
 
For the year 2010, Entergy Wholesale Commodities earned $486.7 million, or $2.59 per share, on an as-reported basis and $587.4 million, or $3.13 per share, on an operational basis. This compares to as-reported earnings of $638.5 million, or $3.26 per share, and operational earnings of $682.5 million, or $3.49 per share, in 2009. The decrease in Entergy Wholesale Commodities earnings in the current year was driven by lower net revenue due to lower pricing and lower generation resulting from increased planned and unplanned outage days at EWCs nuclear plants. Higher non-fuel operation and maintenance expense also contributed to the lower results, with a write-off of capitalized engineering costs associated with a potential uprate project, costs for tritium remediation work at the Vermont Yankee site, and increased compensation and benefits costs being the primary factors. In addition, the 2010 effective income tax rate was higher than 2009. Partially offsetting these items was the gain on sale noted above, lower interest expense and accretion from Entergys share repurchase programs. In addition, the absence of significant impairments on EWCs decommissioning trust funds recorded in 2009 were partially offset by lower realized earnings on decommissioning trust investments, also reflected in other income.
 
Parent & Other reported a loss of $35.9 million, or 20 cents per share, on an as-reported basis in fourth quarter 2010 compared to a loss of $22.1 million, or 12 cents per share in fourth quarter 2009. On an operational basis, Parent & Other reported a loss of $35.9 million, or 20 cents per share, in fourth quarter 2010 compared to a loss of $12.9 million, or seven cents per share, in fourth quarter 2009. Parent & Others operational results declined during the quarter due to several individually insignificant items including higher interest expense on Parent debt.
 
For the year 2010, Parent & Other reported a loss of $48.8 million, or 26 cents per share, on an as-reported basis compared to a loss of $98.9 million, or 49 cents per share, in the prior year. On an operational basis, Parent & Other recorded a loss of $67.3 million, or 36 cents per share, in 2010, compared to a loss of $72.0 million, or 35 cents per share, in 2009. Lower income taxes in operational results were offset by a reduction in other income associated with the elimination of higher affiliate dividend income at the Utility.
 
Entergy affirmed its 2011 earnings guidance in the range of $6.35 to $6.85 per share on both as-reported and operational bases.
 
Entergy believes it offers a long-term, competitive utility investment opportunity combined with a valuable option represented by a unique, clean, non-utility generation business located in attractive power markets. The current long-term financial outlook (prepared October 2010) includes the following:
Earnings:
 
 
Capital deployment:
 
 
Credit quality:
 
 
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.7 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $11 billion and approximately 15,000 employees.
 
Additional information regarding Entergys quarterly results of operations, regulatory proceedings and other operations is available in Entergys investor news release dated Feb. 8, 2011, a copy of which has been filed today with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 8-K and is available on Entergys investor relations website at .
www.entergy.com/investor_relations
 
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in: (i) Entergys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2009; (ii) Entergys Form 10-Qs for the quarters ended March 31, 2010, June 30, 2010, and September 30, 2010; and (iii) Entergys other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; (b) uncertainties associated with rate proceedings, formula rate plans and other cost recovery mechanisms; (c) uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of major storms and recover related restoration costs; (d) nuclear operating and regulatory risks; (e) legislative and regulatory actions; and (f) conditions in commodity and capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements, in addition to other factors described elsewhere in this release and in subsequent securities filings.
 
 
 
Appendix A provides a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Releases"), contain non-GAAP financial measures.  Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP.  Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Releases and the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
Certain non-GAAP measures in the Releases could differ from GAAP only in that the figure or ratio states or includes operational earnings per share.  Operational earnings per share is presented for each of Entergy's major business segments as well as on a consolidated basis.  Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the effect of "special items."  Special items reflect the effect on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses.  In addition, other financial measures including return on average invested capital, return on average common equity, and net margin are included on both an operational and as-reported basis.  In each case, the metrics defined as "operational" would exclude the effect of special items as defined above.  Management believes that financial metrics calculated using operational earnings could provide useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of Entergy's businesses and could assist investors in comparing Entergy's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector.
 
Other non-GAAP measures, total gross liquidity; debt to capital, excluding securitization debt; net debt to net capital, excluding securitization debt; and net debt including off-balance sheet liabilities, excluding securitization debt; are measures Entergy uses internally for management and board discussions and cash budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business.  Entergy believes the above data could provide useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial flexibility, and could assist investors in comparing Entergy's cash availability to the cash availability of others in the energy sector.
 
The non-GAAP financial measures and other reported adjusted items in Entergy's Releases are presented in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  These non-GAAP financial measures should not be used to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.  These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, could provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  Investors are strongly encouraged to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.  Non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized; therefore, it might not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names.


