FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20111018125314.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
[ ]      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02.    Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K/A, including the exhibits, is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02.
On October 18, 2011, Entergy Corporation issued a public announcement, which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
This Form 8-K/A is being submitted solely to resubmit Exhibit 99.1, which did not transmit properly in the original submission.
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Entergy Corporation
639 Loyola Avenue
New Orleans, LA 70113
News
Release
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
    
                                                                                      
New Orleans, La.  Entergy Corporation (NYSE: ETR) today indicated that it expects third quarter 2011 as-reported and operational earnings of approximately $3.52 per share. Results for third quarter 2010 were $2.62 per share on an as-reported basis and $2.76 per share on an operational basis. Entergy also updated its earnings guidance for 2011 to be in the range of $7.15 to $7.65 per share.
 
As-reported results are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and are comprised of operational earnings (described below) and special items. The special item, reflected in third quarter 2010 as-reported results for Entergy Wholesale Commodities, was associated with the previously planned spin-off of the non-utility nuclear business.
 
The third quarter 2011 earnings improvement was due to higher earnings at Utility, partially offset by lower results at Entergy Wholesale Commodities and Parent & Other. Third quarter 2011 earnings also reflect accretion from Entergys share repurchase programs.
 
 
 
News Release:  Entergy Provides Preliminary Third Quarter Earnings Guidance and Updates Full Year 2011 Earnings Guidance
Page 2
Oct. 18, 2011
 
The increase in Utility third quarter 2011 earnings was driven by a tax settlement that resulted in a significant decrease in income tax expense during the current quarter, the majority of which was reflected at the Utility. A portion of the resulting benefits will be shared with Entergy Louisiana, LLCs customers, consistent with the settlement approved by the Louisiana Public Service Commission in October 2011. As a result, the decrease in income tax expense was partially offset by a regulatory charge reducing Utility net revenue to reflect the customer sharing arrangement.
 
Excluding this regulatory charge, Utility net revenue was modestly lower. Favorable weather in the third quarter 2011 essentially matched the significantly warmer-than-normal weather effect experienced one year ago. Also contributing to the improved Utility results was lower non-fuel operation and maintenance expense. An increase in depreciation and amortization expense partially offset these factors.
 
The quarter-over-quarter decrease in operational earnings at Entergy Wholesale Commodities was driven by lower net revenue and a higher effective income tax rate, partially offset by a reduction in non-fuel operation and maintenance expense. EWCs net revenue declined due primarily to lower pricing associated with the nuclear fleet. Providing a partial offset in net revenue was an increase in nuclear generation due to fewer planned and unplanned outages. The J.A. FitzPatrick plant had 18 refueling days in September 2010 compared to no scheduled refueling outages in the current quarter.
 
 
 
News Release:  Entergy Provides Preliminary Third Quarter Earnings Guidance and Updates Full Year 2011 Earnings Guidance
Page 3
Oct. 18, 2011
 
Parent & Others results were lower for the quarter due primarily to the absence of a 2010 adjustment reducing income tax expense (associated with a favorable Tax Court ruling).
 
As a result of the Internal Revenue Service and LPSC settlements discussed above, Entergy revised its 2011 as-reported and operational earnings guidance to a range of $7.15 to $7.65 per share. Entergys previous guidance range was $6.35 to $6.85 per share on both an as-reported basis and operational basis.
 
A teleconference will be held at 10 a.m. CT on Tuesday, Nov. 1, 2011, to discuss Entergys third quarter 2011 earnings announcement, and may be accessed by dialing (719) 457-2080, confirmation code 4650540, no more than 15 minutes prior to the start of the call. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergys website at www.entergy.com. A replay of the
teleconference will be available for seven days thereafter by dialing (719) 457-0820, confirmation code 4650540.
 
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.7 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $11 billion and approximately 15,000 employees.
 
 
 
 
News Release:  Entergy Provides Preliminary Third Quarter Earnings Guidance and Updates Full Year 2011 Earnings Guidance
Page 4
Oct. 18, 2011
 
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in: (i) Entergys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010; (ii) Entergys Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2011 and June 30, 2011; and (iii) Entergys other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; (b) uncertainties associated with rate proceedings, formula rate plans and other cost recovery mechanisms; (c) uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of major storms and recover related restoration costs; (d) nuclear plant relicensing, operating and regulatory risks, including any changes resulting from the nuclear crisis in Japan following its catastrophic earthquake and tsunami; (e)
 
legislative and regulatory actions and risks and uncertainties associated with claims or litigation by or against Entergy and its subsidiaries; and
(f) conditions in commodity and capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements, in addition to other factors described elsewhere in this release and subsequent securities filings.

Exhibit 99.2
 
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Pre-Release") contains the non-GAAP financial measure of operational earnings per share.  Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Pre-Release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "special items".  Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses.  Management believes the discussion of operational earnings provides useful information in evaluating the ongoing results of Entergy's businesses and assists in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector.
 
The non-GAAP information in the Pre-Release is used in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  The non-GAAP information should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.  The non-GAAP information reflects an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  Investors are strongly encouraged to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.  Non-GAAP information is not standardized; therefore, it may not be possible to compare this information with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names.


