FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20111101071939.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 1, 2011, Entergy Corporation issued two public announcements, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto (the Earnings Releases) and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the third quarter 2011.  The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
On November 1, 2011, Entergy Corporation issued the Earnings Releases, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the third quarter 2011.  The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Entergy Corporation
 
 
By:
/s/ Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
Senior Vice President and
Chief Accounting Officer
 
Dated: November 1, 2011
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
INVESTOR NEWS
 
 
 
November 1, 2011
 
NEW ORLEANS   
Entergy Corporation (NYSE: ETR) reported third quarter 2011 earnings of $3.53 per share on as-reported and operational bases, as shown in Table 1 below.  A more detailed discussion of quarterly results begins on page 2 of this release.
Operational Earnings Highlights for Third Quarter 2011
Legal and regulatory proceedings dominated the quarter.  In September, the trial on our federal lawsuit to prevent the state of Vermont from forcing Vermont Yankee to close in March of next year, despite the fact that the NRC has extended the license, was completed.  A ruling from the district court could be issued at any time.  In New York, the hearing before administrative law judges of the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation is under way and expected to continue into 2012, said .  While we dont expect final resolution  that is, appeals are always likely  for either of these issues in the immediate future, we are now moving out of the political arena and into the judicial system.  Facts matter and we believe in our cases.
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergys chairman and chief executive officer
The Utility also continues to make progress on key initiatives.  The Arkansas Public Service Commission issued an order late last week in its proceeding on post-System Agreement transition for Entergy Arkansas.  The order provides needed clarity, affirms that an RTO is the right answer, and opens the pathway for the other operating companies to move forward.  We will submit a change of control filing in Arkansas to join MISO within the next 30 days.
Entergys business highlights also include the following:
 
 
 
 
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10 a.m. CT on Tuesday, November 1, 2011, with access by telephone, (719) 457-2080, confirmation code 4650540.  The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergys website at .  A replay of the teleconference will be available through November 8, 2011, by dialing (719) 457-0820, confirmation code 4650540.  The replay will also be available on Entergys website at .
www.entergy.com
www.entergy.com
Consolidated Earnings
Table 2 provides a comparative summary of consolidated earnings per share for third quarter and year-to-date 2011 versus 2010, including a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings. The third quarter 2011 earnings improvement was due to higher earnings at Utility, partially offset by lower results at Entergy Wholesale Commodities and Parent & Other.  Entergys results for the current period also reflect the positive effect of accretion associated with the companys share repurchase programs.  A detailed discussion of the factors driving quarterly results at each business segment follows.
Detailed earnings variance analysis is included in Appendix A-1 and Appendix A-2 to this release.  In addition, Appendix A-3 provides details of special items shown in Table 2 above.
Consolidated Net Cash Flow Provided by Operating Activities
Entergys net cash flow provided by operating activities in third quarter 2011 was $1,153 million compared to $1,697 million in third quarter 2010.  The overall quarterly decrease was due primarily to the absence of the receipt of $703 million from proceeds associated with storm-related debt issuances from the Louisiana Utilities Restoration Corporation for Entergy Louisiana and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana for hurricanes Gustav and Ike in third quarter of 2010.  Partially offsetting this decrease was higher deferred fuel collections at the Utility.  In addition, intercompany tax payments contributed to line of business variances, but were offsetting between Utility, Entergy Wholesale Commodities, and Parent & Other.
Table 3 provides the components of net cash flow provided by operating activities contributed by each business with quarterly and year-to-date comparisons.
 
 
 
 
 
In third quarter 2011, Utility as-reported and operational earnings were $2.95 per share compared to $1.78 per share on the same bases in third quarter 2010.  Earnings in the current quarter reflect a tax settlement with the Internal Revenue Service entered into in August 2011 that resulted in a significant decrease in income tax expense.  The majority of the income tax expense effect from the IRS settlement was recorded at the Utility; there was also some effect at the other business segments.  Utility income tax expense was also lower in the current quarter due to the absence of the net effect of consolidated income tax adjustments across the Entergy companies in the third quarter of last year, which net to zero on a consolidated basis.
A portion of the Utility tax benefit from the IRS settlement will be shared with Entergy Louisiana customers, consistent with the settlement approved by the Louisiana Public Service Commission in October 2011.  As a result, the decrease in Utility income tax expense was partially offset by a decrease in net revenue attributed to the regulatory charge recorded to reflect the customer sharing arrangement.  Excluding the regulatory charge, net revenue was slightly lower than the prior year.  Weather was significantly warmer than normal in the third quarter of both years.  Also contributing to the higher earnings was lower non-fuel operation and maintenance expense due primarily to a reduction in compensation and benefit expenses.  These benefits were partially offset by higher depreciation and amortization expense from higher depreciable plant balances.
Electricity usage, in gigawatt-hour sales by customer segment, is included in Table4.  Current quarter sales reflect the following:
 
Overall retail sales growth, on a weather-adjusted basis, was 2.6 percent in the third quarter of this year driven by strong industrial sales.  Entergys service territory continues to benefit from expansions.  Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Texas, and Entergy Mississippi had the strongest industrial sales growth at 15.1 percent, 9.5 percent, and 3.1 percent, respectively.
Table 4 provides a comparative summary of Utility operational performance measures.
Appendix B provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
 
 
 
 
Entergy Wholesale Commodities earned $0.73 per share on as-reported and operational bases in third quarter 2011, compared to as-reported earnings of $0.76 per share and operational earnings of $0.90 per share in third quarter 2010.  Entergy Wholesale Commodities operational earnings declined partially as a result of lower net revenue driven by lower energy and capacity pricing on its nuclear fleet.  The effect of lower pricing was partially offset by higher volume as a result of fewer refueling and unplanned nuclear outage days.  A higher effective income tax rate also contributed to the Entergy Wholesale Commodities earnings decline.  The higher income tax expense was due primarily to the absence of the net effect of consolidated income tax adjustments across the Entergy companies in the third quarter of last year, which net to zero on a consolidated basis.  These items were partially offset by lower non-fuel operation and maintenance expense attributable primarily to lower compensation and benefit expenses and the absence of a write-off of capitalized engineering costs associated with a potential uprate project in the previous period.
Table 5 provides a comparative summary of Entergy Wholesale Commodities operational performance measures.
 
 
 
 
Table 6 provides capacity and generation sold forward projections for Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear fleet.
Parent & Other reported a loss of $(0.15) per share on as-reported and operational bases in third quarter 2011, compared to earnings of $0.08 per share on the same bases in the third quarter of last year.  Higher income tax expense on Parent & Other activities was the primary factor driving results for the quarter.  Income tax expense was higher due to the absence of a reversal of an income tax reserve recorded in the third quarter of last year.  The absence of the net effect of consolidated income tax adjustments also contributed.
As a result of the Internal Revenue Service and LPSC settlements discussed above, Entergy revised its 2011 as-reported and operational earnings guidance to a range of $7.15 to $7.65 per share.  Entergys previous guidance range was $6.35 to $6.85 per share on both as-reported and operational bases.  The midpoint of Entergys 2011 earnings guidance is adjusted only to reflect the year-to-date income tax expense adjustments above the level assumed in the original guidance, including the IRS settlement agreement, net of amount to be shared with Entergy Louisiana customers.  Year-over-year changes are shown as point estimates and are applied to 2010 earnings to compute the 2011 guidance midpoint.  Drivers for the 2011 guidance range are listed separately.  Because there is a range of possible outcomes associated with each earnings driver, a range is applied to the guidance midpoint to produce Entergys guidance range.  The 2011 earnings guidance is detailed inTable 7 below.
 
 
 
 
 
Key assumptions supporting 2011 earnings guidance are as follows:
Utility
 
 
 
Entergy Wholesale Commodities
Parent & Other
Share Repurchase Program
Other
Revised 2011 Guidance Range
Earnings guidance for 2011 should be considered in association with earnings sensitivities as shown in Table 8.  These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in operational earnings resulting from changes in various revenue and expense drivers.  Traditionally, the most significant variables for earnings drivers are utility sales for Utility and energy prices for Entergy Wholesale Commodities.  Estimated annual impacts shown in Table 8 are intended to be indicative rather than precise guidance.
 
 
 
 
(
g
)  Based on 2010 average fully diluted shares outstanding of approximately 188 million.
Five appendices are presented in this section as follows:
 
 
 
 
Appendix A-1 and Appendix A-2 provide details of third quarter and year-to-date 2011 vs. 2010 as-reported and operational earnings variance analysis for Utility, Entergy Wholesale Commodities, Parent & Other, and Consolidated.
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix A-3 lists special items by business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons.  Amounts are shown on both earnings per share and net income bases.  Special items are those events that are not routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses.  Special items are included in as-reported earnings per share consistent with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), but are excluded from operational earnings per share.  As a result, operational earnings per share is considered a non-GAAP measure.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
Appendix C-1 provides comparative financial performance measures for the current quarter.  Appendix C-2 provides historical financial performance measures and operating performance metrics for the trailing eight quarters.  Financial performance measures in both tables include those calculated and presented in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), as well as those that are considered non-GAAP measures.
As-reported measures are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of net income, including special items.  Operational measures are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational net income, which excludes the impact of special items.  A reconciliation of operational measures to as-reported measures is provided in .
Appendix E
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix D provides definitions of certain operational performance measures, as well as GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, all of which are referenced in this release.
 
 
 
Financial measures defined in the below table include measures prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, (GAAP), as well as non-GAAP measures.  Non-GAAP measures are included in this release in order to provide metrics that remove the effect of not routine financial impacts from commonly used financial metrics.
 
 
 
-1 and -2 provide reconciliations of various non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in this release to their most comparable GAAP measure.
Appendix E
Appendix E
 
 
 
*********************************************************************************************************************************
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties.  There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in: (i) Entergys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010; (ii) Entergys Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2011 and June 30, 2011; and (iii) Entergys other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; (b) uncertainties associated with rate proceedings, formula rate plans and other cost recovery mechanisms; (c) uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of major storms and recover related restoration costs; (d) nuclear plant relicensing, operating and regulatory risks, including any changes resulting from the nuclear crisis in Japan following its catastrophic earthquake and tsunami; (e) legislative and regulatory actions and risks and uncertainties associated with claims or litigation by or against Entergy and its subsidiaries; and (f) conditions in commodity and capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements, in addition to other factors described elsewhere in this release and in subsequent securities filings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
New Orleans, La.  Entergy Corporation (NYSE: ETR) today reported third quarter 2011 as-reported earnings of $628.1 million, or $3.53 per share, compared with $492.9 million, or $2.62 per share, for third quarter 2010. On an operational basis, Entergys third quarter 2011 earnings were $628.1 million, or $3.53 per share, compared with $518.1 million, or $2.76 per share, in third quarter 2010.
 
      *GAAP refers to United States generally accepted accounting principles.
 
 
 
 
Entergy Reports Third Quarter Earnings
Page 2
Nov. 1, 2011
 
 
 
 
Legal and regulatory proceedings dominated the quarter. In September, the trial on our federal lawsuit to prevent the state of Vermont from forcing Vermont Yankee to close in March of next year, despite the fact that the NRC has extended the license, was completed. A ruling from the District Court could be issued at any time. In New York, the hearing before Administrative Law Judges of the New York State Department of Environmental Conservation is under way and expected to continue into 2012, said . While we dont expect final resolution that is, appeals are always likely for either of these issues in the immediate future, we are now moving out of the political arena and into the judicial system. Facts matter and we believe in our cases.
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergys chairman and chief executive officer
-
-
 
The Utility also continues to make progress on key initiatives. The Arkansas Public Service Commission issued an order late last week in its proceeding on post-System Agreement transition for Entergy Arkansas, Inc. The order provides needed clarity, affirms that an RTO is the right answer, and opens the pathway for the other operating companies to move forward. We will submit a change of control filing in Arkansas to join MISO within the next 30 days.
 
 
 
 
 
Entergy Reports Third Quarter Earnings
Page 3
Nov. 1, 2011
 
 
 
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10 a.m. CT on Tuesday, Nov. 1, 2011, with access by telephone, (719) 457-2080, confirmation code 4650540. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergys website at www.entergy.com. A replay of the teleconference will be available through Nov. 8, 2011, by dialing (719) 457-0820, confirmation code 4650540. The replay will also be available on Entergys website at www.entergy.com.
 
Utility
 
In third quarter 2011, Utilitys as-reported and operational earnings were $524.1 million, or $2.95 per share, compared to $333.6 million, or $1.78 per share, on the same bases in third quarter 2010. Earnings in the current quarter reflect a tax settlement with the Internal Revenue Service entered into in August 2011 that resulted in a significant decrease in income tax expense. The majority of the income tax expense effect from the IRS settlement was recorded at the Utility; there was also some effect at the other business segments. Utility income tax expense was also lower in the current quarter due to the absence of the net effect of consolidated income tax adjustments across the Entergy companies in the third quarter of last year, which net to zero on a consolidated basis.
 
 
 
Entergy Reports Third Quarter Earnings
Page 4
Nov. 1, 2011
 
A portion of the Utility tax benefit from the IRS settlement will be shared with Entergy Louisiana customers, consistent with the settlement approved by the Louisiana Public Service Commission in October 2011. As a result, the decrease in Utility income tax expense was partially offset by a decrease in net revenue attributed to the regulatory charge recorded to reflect the customer sharing arrangement. Excluding the regulatory charge, net revenue was slightly lower than the prior year. Weather was significantly warmer than normal in the third quarter of both years. Also contributing to the higher earnings was lower non-fuel operation and maintenance expense due primarily to a reduction in compensation and benefit expenses. These benefits were partially offset by higher depreciation and amortization expense from higher depreciable plant balances.
 
Residential sales in third quarter 2011, on a weather-adjusted basis, increased 0.1 percent compared to third quarter 2010. Commercial and governmental sales, on a weather-adjusted basis, increased 0.3 percent quarter over quarter. Industrial sales in the third quarter increased 7.3 percent compared to the same quarter of 2010.
 
Overall retail sales growth, on a weather-adjusted basis, was 2.6 percent in the third quarter of this year driven by strong industrial sales. Entergys service territory continues to benefit from expansions. Entergy Louisiana, Entergy Texas, Inc. and Entergy Mississippi, Inc. had the strongest industrial sales growth at 15.1 percent, 9.5 percent, and 3.1 percent, respectively.
 
Entergy Wholesale Commodities earned $130.2 million, or 73 cents per share, on as-reported and operational bases in third quarter 2011 compared to as-reported earnings of $143.0 million, or 76 per cents per share, and operational earnings of $168.2 million, or 90 cents per share, in third quarter 2010. Entergy Wholesale Commodities operational earnings declined partially as a result of lower net revenue driven by lower energy and capacity pricing on its nuclear fleet. The effect of lower pricing was partially offset by higher volume as a result of fewer refueling and unplanned nuclear outage days. A higher effective income tax rate also contributed to the
Entergy Wholesale Commodities earnings decline. The higher income tax expense was due primarily to the absence of the net effect of consolidated income tax adjustments across the Entergy companies in the third quarter of last year, which net to zero on a consolidated basis. These items were partially offset by lower non-fuel operation and maintenance expense attributable primarily to lower compensation and benefit expenses and the absence of a write-off of capitalized engineering costs associated with a potential uprate project in the previous period.
 
 
 
Entergy Reports Third Quarter Earnings
Page 5
Nov. 1, 2011
 
Parent & Other reported a loss of $26.3 million, or 15 cents per share, on as-reported and operational bases in third quarter 2011, compared to earnings of $16.2 million, or 8 cents per share, on the same bases in the third quarter of last year. Higher income tax expense on Parent & Other activities was the primary factor driving results for the quarter. Income tax expense was higher due to the absence of a reversal of an income tax reserve recorded in the third quarter of last year. The absence of the net effect of consolidated income tax adjustments also contributed.
 
As a result of the Internal Revenue Service and LPSC settlements discussed above, Entergy revised its 2011 as-reported and operational earnings guidance to a range of $7.15 to $7.65 per share. Entergys previous guidance range was $6.35 to $6.85 per share on both as-reported and operational bases. The midpoint of Entergys 2011 earnings guidance is adjusted only to reflect the year-to-date income tax expense adjustments above the level assumed in the original guidance, including the IRS settlement agreement, net of amount to be shared with Entergy Louisianas customers.
 
 
 
Entergy Reports Third Quarter Earnings
Page 6
Nov. 1, 2011
 
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.7 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $11 billion and approximately 15,000 employees.
 
Additional information regarding Entergys quarterly results of operations, regulatory proceedings and other operations is available in Entergys investor news release dated Nov. 1, 2011, a copy of which has been filed today with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 8-K and is available on Entergys investor relations website at .
www.entergy.com/investor_relations
 
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy Corporation makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in: (i) Entergys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010; (ii) Entergys Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2011 and June 30, 2011; and (iii) Entergys other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; (b) uncertainties associated with rate proceedings, formula rate plans and other cost recovery mechanisms; (c) uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of major storms and recover related restoration costs; (d) nuclear plant relicensing, operating and regulatory risks, including any changes resulting from the nuclear crisis in Japan following its catastrophic earthquake and tsunami; (e) legislative and regulatory actions and risks and uncertainties associated with claims or litigation by or against Entergy and its subsidiaries; and (f) conditions in commodity and capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements, in addition to other factors described elsewhere in this release and in subsequent securities filings.
 
 
 
Appendix A provides a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Releases"), contain non-GAAP financial measures.  Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP.  Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Releases and the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
Certain non-GAAP measures in the Releases could differ from GAAP only in that the figure or ratio states or includes operational earnings per share.  Operational earnings per share is presented for each of Entergy's reportable business segments as well as on a consolidated basis.  Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the effect of "special items."  Special items reflect the effect on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses.  In addition, other financial measures including return on average invested capital, return on average common equity, and net margin are included on both an operational and as-reported basis.  In each case, the metrics defined as "operational" would exclude the effect of special items as defined above.  Management believes that financial metrics calculated using operational earnings could provide useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of Entergy's businesses and could assist investors in comparing Entergy's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector.
 
Other non-GAAP measures, total gross liquidity; debt to capital, excluding securitization debt; net debt to net capital, excluding securitization debt; and net debt to net capital, including off-balance sheet liabilities, excluding securitization debt; are measures Entergy uses internally for management and board discussions and cash budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business.  Entergy believes the above data could provide useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial flexibility, and could assist investors in comparing Entergy's cash availability to the cash availability of others in the energy sector.
 
The non-GAAP financial measures and other reported adjusted items in Entergy's Releases are presented in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  These non-GAAP financial measures should not be used to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.  These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, could provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  Investors are strongly encouraged to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.  Non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized; therefore, it might not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names.
 


