FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20120731071335.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
CURRENT REPORT
 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 31, 2012, Entergy Corporation issued two public announcements, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto (the Earnings Releases) and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the second quarter 2012.  The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
On July 31, 2012, Entergy Corporation issued the Earnings Releases, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the second quarter 2012.  The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Entergy Corporation
By:
/s/ Alyson M. Mount
Alyson M. Mount
Senior Vice President and
Chief Accounting Officer
Dated: July 31, 2012
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
INVESTOR NEWS
 
July 31, 2012
NEW ORLEANS  Entergy Corporation (NYSE: ETR reported earnings of $2.06 per share on an as-reported basis and $2.11 per share on an operational basis for second quarter 2012, as shown in Table 1 below.  A more detailed discussion of quarterly results begins on page 2 of this release.
)
Operational Earnings Highlights for Second Quarter 2012
In May, we received the long-awaited approval for the renewal of Pilgrim Nuclear Power Stations operating license, said .  The Nuclear Regulatory Commissions approval followed a 76-month review, the longest on record, and concluded that there is no safety or environmental issue that precludes the plant from operating safely for another 20 years.  We have now received 20-year license renewals for all of Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear plants with the exception of the Indian Point units in New York where the approval process could last well into the renewal period.  Under the federal statutory provision for timely renewal, Indian Points ability to continue operations will not be affected.
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergys chairman and chief executive officer
The Utility also continues to make progress on key initiatives.  The Louisiana Public Service Commission found that joining the Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator regional transmission organization is in the public interest, subject to certain conditions.  Regulatory processes related to MISO filings are ongoing in other jurisdictions and we expect decisions from all retail regulators in 2012.  In parallel with the regulatory process, MISO implementation efforts also continue, moving us closer to realizing significant savings for our customers.
Entergys business highlights also include the following:
 
 
 
 
A teleconference will be held at 10 a.m. CT on Tuesday, July 31, 2012, to discuss Entergys second quarter 2012 earnings announcement, and may be accessed by dialing (719) 457-2080, confirmation code 8666645, no more than 15 minutes prior to the start of the call.  The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergys website at .  A replay of the teleconference will be available by telephone and on Entergys website at as soon as practical after the transcript is filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission due to filing requirements associated with the proposed spin-off and merger of Entergys transmission business with ITC Holdings Corp  The telephone replay will be available through Aug. 7, 2012, by dialing (719) 457-0820, confirmation code 8666645.
www.entergy.com
www.entergy.com
.
Consolidated Earnings
Table 2 provides a comparative summary of consolidated earnings per share for second quarter and year-to-date 2012 versus 2011, including a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.  Second quarter 2012 earnings increased compared to a year ago.  A detailed discussion of the factors driving quarter results at each business segment follows.
Detailed earnings variance analysis is included in Appendix -1 and Appendix -2 to this release.  In addition, Appendix -3 provides details of special items shown in Table 2 above.
B
B
B
Consolidated Net Cash Flow Provided by Operating Activities
Entergys net cash flow provided by operating activities in second quarter 2012 was $587 million compared to $654 million in second quarter 2011.  The overall quarterly decrease was due primarily to:
Table 3 provides the components of net cash flow provided by operating activities contributed by each business with current quarter and year-to-date comparisons.
 
 
 
 
In second quarter 2012, Utility earnings were $1.72 per share on an as-reported basis and $1.77 per share on an operational basis, compared to as-reported and operational earnings per share of $1.39 in second quarter 2011.  Utility earnings in the current quarter reflect a significant decrease in income tax expense which resulted from a June 2012 agreement with the IRS regarding the tax treatment for storm cost financings in Louisiana associated with hurricanes Katrina and Rita.  The companies affected were Entergy Louisiana, LLC and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C.  Under the terms of an agreement approved by the LPSC, the benefits resulting from the IRS agreement will be shared with customers of the two affected operating companies.  As a result, the decrease in income tax expense was partially offset by a decrease in net revenue attributable to the regulatory charge recorded to reflect this customer sharing.
Excluding this regulatory charge, Utility net revenue improved modestly.  Retail sales volume in second quarter 2012 was higher than a year ago, reflecting strong weather-adjusted sales growth across all customer classes.  Weather was warmer-than-normal, but the quarter-over-quarter weather effect variance was unfavorable when compared to the well above-normal temperatures experienced in the second quarter of 2011.  Higher non-fuel operation and maintenance expense served as a partial offset to the increased operational earnings.  Non-fuel operation and maintenance expense increased due primarily to higher compensation and benefits costs (largely pension) as well as higher fossil-related outage and distribution expenses.  These increases in non-fuel operation and maintenance expense were partially offset by the deferral of previously incurred MISO implementation costs as approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the LPSC.
Retail electric sales, in billed gigawatt-hours, is summarized in Table 4by customer segment.  Current quarter sales reflect the following:
 
Retail sales growth on a weather-adjusted basis was 4.0 percent for the quarter.  Residential growth was strongest.  Industrial sales growth was also positive, particularly in Louisiana, due largely to expansions.  For large industrials, chemicals continued to be the strongest sector, partially offset by a decline in refineries.  Growth in the small- to mid-sized segment was also positive.
Table 4 provides a comparative summary of Utility operational performance measures.
 
Appendix C provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
 
 
 
 
Entergy Wholesale Commodities operational adjusted EBITDA was $127 million in the second quarter of 2012, compared to $174 million in the same period a year ago, as shown in Table 5.  The decline was due largely to lower net revenue from the nuclear portfolio on lower energy pricing and lower production.  The average realized revenue per megawatt hour for the nuclear fleet was approximately $49, down from approximately $52 in the same period last year.  Nuclear generation declined due primarily to an increase in refueling and unplanned outage days.  The effect of outage days was offset by the exercise of resupply options provided for in power purchase agreements whereby EWC may elect to supply power from another source when the plant is not running.  Lower net revenue from EWCs nuclear fleet was partially offset by net revenue from the 583-megawatt Rhode Island State Energy Center, which was acquired in December 2011.  Higher non-fuel operation and maintenance expense also contributed to the operational adjusted EBITDA decline driven by higher compensation and benefits costs (largely pension) and the RISEC acquisition.
Table 6
provides a comparative summary of Entergy Wholesale Commodities operational performance measures.
Entergy Wholesale Commodities second quarter 2012 results reflect earnings of $0.46 per share on an as-reported basis and an operational basis, compared to $0.36 per share in second quarter 2011.  The primary drivers for the increase were lower decommissioning expense and a lower effective income tax rate.  In the current quarter, a reduction in the decommissioning liability was recorded, also reducing decommissioning expense, which factored in, among other things, an updated decommissioning cost study for the Pilgrim nuclear plant.  The lower effective income tax rate was due largely to the absence of a charge in the prior year which resulted from a change in Michigan tax law.  Decreased net revenue and increased non-fuel operation and maintenance expense (discussed above) partially offset these benefits.
 
 
 
 
Table 7 provides current capacity and generation sold forward projections for Entergy Wholesale Commodities fleet.
 
 
 
The Parent & Other disclosure segment reported a loss of $(0.12) per share on an as-reported basis and an operational basis in second quarter 2012, compared to as-reported and operational earnings of $0.01 per share in second quarter 2011.  Higher income tax expense on Parent & Other activities was the primary factor driving the decrease.  Both periods reflected favorable tax items.  Second quarter 2012 benefited from a favorable decision received in June 2012 from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit affirming Entergys entitlement to claim foreign tax credits for the U.K. Windfall Tax.  The second quarter of 2011 benefited from a reversal of a tax reserve related to an IRS settlement, which exceeded income tax adjustments recorded in the current period.
Entergy updated its 2012 earnings guidance range to be $3.49 to $4.29 per share on an as-reported basis and affirmed operational guidance of $4.85 to $5.65 per share.
The revised as-reported guidance range reflects special items recorded in the current quarter for expenses in connection with the proposed spin-merge of Entergys transmission business with ITC.  As-reported earnings guidance for 2012 does not reflect any potential future expenses for the proposed spin-merge; as-reported 2012 guidance will be updated throughout the year as these transaction-related expenses are incurred.
The 2012 earnings guidance is detailed in Table 8.  Year-over-year changes are shown as point estimates and are applied to 2011 earnings to compute the 2012 guidance midpoint.  Drivers for the 2012 guidance range are listed separately.  Because there is a range of possible outcomes associated with each earnings driver, a range is applied to the guidance midpoint to produce Entergys guidance range.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Key assumptions supporting 2012 operational earnings guidance are as follows:
Utility
Entergy Wholesale Commodities
Parent & Other
 
 
 
Share Repurchase Program
Other
2012 Guidance Range Revised April 2012
Earnings guidance for 2012 should be considered in association with earnings sensitivities as shown in Table 9.  These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in operational earnings resulting from changes in various revenue and expense drivers.  Traditionally, the most significant variables for earnings drivers are retail sales for Utility and energy prices for Entergy Wholesale Commodities.  In addition, the broader earnings guidance range for 2012 takes into consideration a number of regulatory initiatives (rate actions) underway across the Utility jurisdictions.
Estimated annual impacts shown in Table 9 are intended to be indicative rather than precise guidance.
 
 
 
Entergy believes it offers a long-term, competitive utility investment opportunity combined with a valuable option represented by a unique, clean, non-utility generation business located in attractive power markets.  Table 10 summarizes the current long-term financial outlook for 2010 through 2014, which does not reflect the effects of the proposed spin-merge of the transmission business discussed in Appendix A.
The long-term financial outlook should be considered in association with 2014 financial sensitivities as shown in Table 11.  These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in earnings or adjusted EBITDA resulting from changes in business drivers.  Estimated impacts shown in Table 11 are intended to be illustrative.
 
 
 
Seven appendices are presented in this section as follows:
 
 
 
Appendix provides information on Entergys plans to spin off its transmission business and merge that business with a subsidiary of ITC Holdings Corp.
A
Entergys Transmission Business Overview
Entergys electric transmission business consists of more than 15,800 miles of interconnected transmission lines at voltages of 69kV and above and associated substations across its utility service territory in the Mid-South.  Following the completion of the transaction, ITC will become one of the largest electric transmission companies in the U.S., with over 30,000 miles of transmission lines, spanning from the Great Lakes to the Gulf Coast.
Transaction Overview
In December 2011, Entergy and ITC Boards of Directors approved a definitive agreement under which Entergy will spin off and then merge its electric transmission business with a subsidiary of ITC.  Terms of the transaction agreements include:
Entergy expects to receive gross cash proceeds of $1.775 billion from indebtedness that will be incurred in connection with the transaction, and this indebtedness will be assumed by ITC at the close of the merger.  Entergy expects to utilize most of the cash proceeds to retire debt associated with the transmission business at its utility operating companies and the balance for debt reduction at the parent, Entergy Corporation.
Closing Conditions and Approvals
The transaction is subject to the satisfaction of certain closing conditions.  Primary filings and approvals required include Entergys retail regulators as well as several federal agencies.  ITC shareholders must also approve the transaction.
Upcoming activities in the third quarter will focus largely on regulatory filings with Entergys retail jurisdictions as well as FERC.  Work on other key approvals is expected to continue or begin in the third quarter of 2012.
Appendix outlines the primary filings and requirements, with descriptions of each.
A
 
 
 
Expected Close
Completion of the transaction is expected in 2013 subject to the satisfaction of certain closing conditions, including the required approvals and filings discussed above.
Additional Information and Where to Find It
ITC and Transco will file registration statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) registering shares of ITC common stock and Transco common units to be issued to Entergy shareholders in connection with the proposed transactions.  ITC will also file a proxy statement with the SEC that will be sent to the shareholders of ITC.  Entergy shareholders are urged to read the prospectus and/or information statement that will be included in the registration statements and any other relevant documents, because they contain important information about ITC, Transco and the proposed transactions.  ITC shareholders are urged to read the proxy statement and any other relevant documents because they contain important information about Transco and the proposed transactions.  The proxy statement, prospectus and/or information statement, and other documents relating to the proposed transactions (when they are available) can be obtained free of charge from the SECs website at www.sec.gov.  The documents, when available, can also be obtained free of charge from Entergy upon written request to Entergy Corporation, Investor Relations, P.O. Box 61000, New Orleans, LA 70161 or by calling Entergys Investor Relations information line at 1-888-ENTERGY (368-3749), or from ITC upon written request to ITC Holdings Corp., Investor Relations, 27175 Energy Way, Novi, MI 48377 or by calling 248-946-3000.
 
 
 
Appendix B-1 and Appendix B-2 provide details of second quarter and year-to-date 2012 vs. 2011 as-reported and operational earnings variance analysis for Utility, Entergy Wholesale Commodities, Parent & Other and Consolidated.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix -3 lists special items by business with quarter-to-quarter and year-to-date comparisons.  Amounts are shown on both earnings per share and net income bases.  Special items are those events that are not routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses.  Special items are included in as-reported earnings per share consistent with GAAP, but are excluded from operational earnings per share.  As a result, operational earnings per share is considered a non-GAAP measure.
B
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix D-1 provides comparative financial performance measures for the current quarter.  Appendix D-2 provides historical financial performance measures and operating performance metrics for the trailing eight quarters.  Financial performance measures in both tables include those calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, as well as those that are considered non-GAAP measures.
As-reported measures are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of net income, including special items.  Operational measures are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational net income, which excludes the impact of special items.  A reconciliation of operational measures to as-reported measures is provided in Appendix G.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The capital plan for 2012 through 2014 anticipates $7.1 billion for investment, including $3.2 billion of maintenance capital, as shown in Appendix E.  The remaining $3.9 billion is for specific investments and other initiatives such as:
 
 
 
Appendix Fprovides definitions of certain operational performance measures, as well as GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, all of which are referenced in this release.
 
 
 
 
Financial measures defined in the below table include measures prepared in accordance with GAAP, as well as non-GAAP measures.  Non-GAAP measures are included in this release in order to provide metrics that remove the effect of not routine financial impacts from commonly used financial metrics.
 
 
 
Appendix -1, Appendix -2 and Appendix -3 provide reconciliations of various non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in this release to their most comparable GAAP measure
G
G
G
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
*********************************************************************************************************************************
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in: (i) Entergys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011; (ii) Entergys Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012; and (iii) Entergys other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; (b) uncertainties associated with rate proceedings, formula rate plans and other cost recovery mechanisms; (c) uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of major storms and recover related restoration costs; (d) nuclear plant relicensing, operating and regulatory risks, including any changes resulting from the nuclear crisis in Japan following its catastrophic earthquake and tsunami; (e) legislative and regulatory actions and risks and uncertainties associated with claims or litigation by or against Entergy and its subsidiaries; (f) conditions in commodity and capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements, in addition to other factors described elsewhere in this release and subsequent securities filings; and (g) risks inherent in the proposed spin-off and subsequent merger of Entergys electric transmission business with a subsidiary of ITC Holdings Corp. Entergy cannot provide any assurances that the spin-off and merger transaction will be completed and cannot give any assurance as to the terms on which such transaction will be consummated. The spin-off and merger transaction is subject to certain conditions precedent, including regulatory approvals and approval by ITC Holdings Corp. shareholders.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Entergy
639 Loyola Avenue
New Orleans, LA  70113
 
News
Release
New Orleans, La. Entergy Corporation (NYSE: ETR) today reported second quarter 2012 as-reported earnings of $365.0 million, or $2.06 per share, compared with $315.6 million, or $1.76 per share, for second quarter 2011. On an operational basis, Entergys second quarter 2012 earnings were $374.6 million, or $2.11 per share, compared with $315.6 million, or $1.76 per share, in second quarter 2011.
       *GAAP refers to United States generally accepted accounting principles.
 
In May, we received the long-awaited approval for the renewal of Pilgrim Nuclear Power Stations operating license, said . The Nuclear Regulatory Commissions approval followed a 76-month review, the longest on record, and concluded that there is no safety or environmental issue that precludes the plant from operating safely for another 20 years. We have now received 20-year license renewals for all of Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear plants with the exception of the Indian Point units in New York where the approval process could last well into the renewal period. Under the federal statutory provision for timely renewal, Indian Points ability to continue operations will not be affected.
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergys chairman and chief executive officer
 
The Utility also continues to make progress on key initiatives. The Louisiana Public Service Commission found that joining the Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator regional transmission organization is in the public interest, subject to certain conditions. Regulatory processes related to MISO filings are ongoing in other jurisdictions and we expect decisions from all retail regulators in 2012. In parallel with the regulatory process, MISO implementation efforts also continue, moving us closer to realizing significant savings for our customers.
 
 
A teleconference will be held at 10 a.m. CT on Tuesday, July 31, 2012, to discuss Entergys second quarter 2012 earnings announcement, and may be accessed by dialing (719) 457-2080, confirmation code 8666645, no more than 15 minutes prior to the start of the call. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergys website at . A replay of the teleconference will be available by telephone and on Entergys website at as soon as practical after the transcript is filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission due to filing requirements associated with the proposed spin-off and merger of Entergys transmission business with ITC Holdings Corp. The telephone replay will be available through Aug. 7, 2012, by dialing (719) 457-0820, confirmation code 8666645.
www.entergy.com
www.entergy.com
 
In second quarter 2012, Utility earnings were $304.2 million, or $1.72 per share, on an as-reported basis and $314.1 million, or $1.77 per share, on an operational basis, compared to $248.4 million, or $1.39 per share, on both as-reported and operational bases in second quarter 2011. Utility earnings in the current quarter reflect a significant decrease in income tax expense which resulted from a June 2012 agreement with the IRS regarding the tax treatment for storm cost financings in Louisiana associated with hurricanes Katrina and Rita. The companies affected were Entergy Louisiana, LLC and Entergy Gulf States Louisiana, L.L.C. Under the terms of an agreement approved by the Louisiana Public Service Commission, the benefits resulting from the IRS agreement will be shared with customers of the two affected operating companies. As a result, the decrease in income tax expense was partially offset by a decrease in net revenue attributable to the regulatory charge recorded to reflect this customer sharing.
 
Excluding this regulatory charge, Utility net revenue improved modestly. Retail sales volume in second quarter 2012 was higher than a year ago, reflecting strong weather-adjusted sales growth across all customer classes. Weather was warmer-than-normal, but the quarter-over-quarter weather effect variance was unfavorable when compared to the well above-normal temperatures experienced in the second quarter of 2011. Higher non-fuel operation and maintenance expense served as a partial offset to the increased operational earnings. Non-fuel operation and maintenance expense increased due primarily to higher compensation and benefits costs (largely pension) as well as higher fossil-related outage and distribution expenses. These increases in non-fuel operation and maintenance expense were partially offset by the deferral of previously incurred MISO implementation costs as approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission and the LPSC.
 
Residential sales in second quarter 2012, on a weather-adjusted basis, increased 5.8 percent compared to second quarter 2011. Commercial and governmental sales, on a weather-adjusted basis, increased 4.2 percent quarter over quarter. Industrial sales in the second quarter increased 2.6 percent compared to the same quarter of 2011. Retail sales growth on a weather-adjusted basis was 4.0 percent for the quarter. Residential growth was strongest. Industrial sales growth was also positive, particularly in Louisiana, due largely to expansions. For large industrials, chemicals continued to be the strongest sector, partially offset by a decline in refineries. Growth in the small- to mid-sized segment was also positive.
 
Entergy Wholesale Commodities as-reported and operational earnings were $81.3 million, or 46 cents per share, for second quarter 2012, compared to $64.9 million, or 36 per cents per share, for second quarter 2011. The primary drivers for the increase were lower decommissioning expense and a lower effective income tax rate. In the current quarter, a reduction in the decommissioning liability was recorded, also reducing decommissioning expense, which factored in, among other things, an updated decommissioning cost study for the Pilgrim nuclear plant. The lower effective income tax rate was due largely to the absence of a charge in the prior year which resulted from a change in Michigan tax law. Decreased net revenue and increased non-fuel operation and maintenance expense (discussed below) partially offset these benefits.
 
Entergy Wholesale Commodities operational adjusted EBITDA was $127 million in the second quarter of 2012, compared to $174 million in the same period a year ago. The decline was due largely to lower net revenue from the nuclear portfolio on lower energy pricing and lower production. The average realized revenue per megawatt hour for the nuclear fleet was approximately $49, down from approximately $52 in the same period last year. Nuclear generation declined due primarily to an increase in refueling and unplanned outage days. The effect of outage days was offset by the exercise of resupply options provided for in power purchase agreements whereby Entergy Wholesale Commodities may elect to supply power from another source when the plant is not running. Lower net revenue from Entergy Wholesale Commodities nuclear fleet was partially offset by net revenue from the 583-megawatt Rhode Island State Energy Center, which was acquired in December 2011. Higher non-fuel operation and maintenance expense also contributed to the operational adjusted EBITDA decline driven by higher compensation and benefits costs (largely pension) and the Rhode Island State Energy Center acquisition.
 
The Parent & Other disclosure segment reported a loss of $20.5 million, or 12 cents per share, on an as-reported basis and a loss of $20.9 million, or 12 cents per share, on an operational basis for second quarter 2012. This compares to earnings of $2.3 million, or 1 cent per share, on both as-reported and operational bases in second quarter 2011. Higher income tax expense on Parent & Other activities was the primary factor driving the decrease. Both periods reflected favorable tax items. Second quarter 2012 benefited from a favorable decision received in June 2012 from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit affirming Entergys entitlement to claim foreign tax credits for the U.K. Windfall Tax. The second quarter of 2011 benefited from a reversal of a tax reserve related to an IRS settlement, which exceeded income tax adjustments recorded in the current period.
 
Entergy updated its 2012 earnings guidance range to be $3.49 to $4.29 per share on an as-reported basis and affirmed operational guidance of $4.85 to $5.65 per share.
 
The revised as-reported guidance range reflects special items recorded in the current quarter for expenses in connection with the proposed spin-merge of Entergys transmission business with ITC. As-reported earnings guidance for 2012 does not reflect any potential future expenses for the proposed spin-merge; as-reported 2012 guidance will be updated throughout the year as these transaction-related expenses are incurred.
 
Entergy believes it offers a long-term, competitive utility investment opportunity combined with a valuable option represented by a unique, clean, non-utility generation business located in attractive power markets.
 
The current long-term financial outlook for 2010 through 2014 (prepared November 2011), excluding the effects of the proposed spin-merge of the transmission business discussed below, includes the following:
 
Earnings:
 
Capital deployment:
 
Credit quality:
Entergys electric transmission business consists of more than 15,800 miles of interconnected transmission lines at voltages of 69kV and above and associated substations across its utility service territory in the Mid-South. Following the completion of the transaction, ITC will become one of the largest electric transmission companies in the U.S., with over 30,000 miles of transmission lines, spanning from the Great Lakes to the Gulf Coast.
 
In December 2011, Entergy and ITC Boards of Directors approved a definitive agreement under which Entergy will spin off and then merge its electric transmission business with a subsidiary of ITC. Terms of the transaction agreements include:
 
 
Entergy expects to receive gross cash proceeds of $1.775 billion from indebtedness that will be incurred in connection with the transaction, and this indebtedness will be assumed by ITC at the close of the merger. Entergy expects to utilize most of the cash proceeds to retire debt associated with the transmission business at its utility operating companies and the balance for debt reduction at the parent, Entergy Corporation.
 
The transaction is subject to the satisfaction of certain closing conditions. Primary filings and approvals required include Entergys retail regulators as well as several federal agencies. ITC shareholders must also approve the transaction.
 
Upcoming activities in the third quarter will focus largely on regulatory filings with Entergys retail jurisdictions as well as FERC. Work on other key approvals is expected to continue or begin in the third quarter of 2012.
 
Primary filings and approvals are summarized below.
 
Entergys Retail Regulators:
 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission:
 
Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act:
 
Internal Revenue Service:
 
Nuclear Regulatory Commission:
 
Securities and Exchange Commission:
 
ITC Shareholders:
Completion of the transaction is expected in 2013 subject to the satisfaction of certain closing conditions, including the required approvals and filings discussed above.
 
ITC and Transco will file registration statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) registering shares of ITC common stock and Transco common units to be issued to Entergy shareholders in connection with the proposed transactions. ITC will also file a proxy statement with the SEC that will be sent to the shareholders of ITC. Entergy shareholders are urged to read the prospectus and/or information statement that will be included in the registration statements and any other relevant documents, because they contain important information about ITC, Transco and the proposed transactions. ITC shareholders are urged to read the proxy statement and any other relevant documents because they contain important information about Transco and the proposed transactions. The proxy statement, prospectus and/or information statement, and other documents relating to the proposed transactions (when they are available) can be obtained free of charge from the SECs website at www.sec.gov. The documents, when available, can also be obtained free of charge from Entergy upon written request to Entergy Corporation, Investor Relations, P.O. Box 61000, New Orleans, LA 70161 or by calling Entergys Investor Relations information line at 1-888-ENTERGY (368-3749), or from ITC upon written request to ITC Holdings Corp., Investor Relations, 27175 Energy Way, Novi, MI 48377 or by calling 248-946-3000.
 
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, including more than 10,000 megawatts of nuclear power, making it one of the nations leading nuclear generators. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.8 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $11 billion and approximately 15,000 employees.
 
Additional information regarding Entergys quarterly results of operations, regulatory proceedings and other operations is available in Entergys investor news release dated July 31, 2012, a copy of which has been filed today with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 8-K and is available on Entergys investor relations website at .
www.entergy.com/investor_relations
 
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in: (i) Entergys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011; (ii) Entergys Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012; and (iii) Entergys other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; (b) uncertainties associated with rate proceedings, formula rate plans and other cost recovery mechanisms; (c) uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of major storms and recover related restoration costs; (d) nuclear plant relicensing, operating and regulatory risks, including any changes resulting from the nuclear crisis in Japan following its catastrophic earthquake and tsunami; (e) legislative and regulatory actions and risks and uncertainties associated with claims or litigation by or against Entergy and its subsidiaries; (f) conditions in commodity and capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements, in addition to other factors described elsewhere in this release and subsequent securities filings; and (g) risks inherent in the proposed spin-off and subsequent merger of Entergys electric transmission business with a subsidiary of ITC Holdings Corp. Entergy cannot provide any assurances that the spin-off and merger transaction will be completed and cannot give any assurance as to the terms on which such transaction will be consummated. The spin-off and merger transaction is subject to certain conditions precedent, including regulatory approvals and approval by ITC Holdings Corp. shareholders.
.
 
 
 
Appendix A provides a reconciliation of GAAP consolidated as-reported earnings to non-GAAP consolidated operational earnings.
Appendix B provides a reconciliation of Entergy Wholesale Commodities GAAP net income to non-GAAP operational adjusted EBITDA.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Releases"), contain non-GAAP financial measures.  Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP.  Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Releases and the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
Certain non-GAAP measures in the Releases could differ from GAAP only in that the figure or ratio states or includes operational earnings per share.  Operational earnings per share is presented for each of Entergy's reportable business segments as well as on a consolidated basis.  Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the effect of "special items."  Special items reflect the effect on earnings of events that are less routine or are related to discontinued businesses.  In addition, other financial measures including return on average invested capital, return on average common equity, and net margin are included on both an operational and as-reported basis.  In each case, the metrics defined as "operational" would exclude the effect of special items as defined above.  Management believes that financial metrics calculated using operational earnings could provide useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of Entergy's businesses and could assist investors in comparing Entergy's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector.
 
Other non-GAAP measures, adjusted EBITDA; operational adjusted EBITDA; total gross liquidity; debt to capital, excluding securitization debt; net debt to net capital, excluding securitization debt; and net debt to net capital, including off-balance sheet liabilities, excluding securitization debt; are measures Entergy uses internally for management and board discussions and cash budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business.  Entergy believes the above data could provide useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial results and flexibility, and could assist investors in comparing Entergy's cash availability to the cash availability of others in the energy sector.
 
The non-GAAP financial measures and other reported adjusted items in Entergy's Releases are presented in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  These non-GAAP financial measures should not be used to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.  These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, could provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  Investors are strongly encouraged to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.  Non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized; therefore, it might not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names.
 


