FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20121015114529.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
[ ]      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02.    Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibits, is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02.
On October 15, 2012, Entergy Corporation issued a public announcement, which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.   Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Entergy
639 Loyola Avenue
New Orleans, LA  70113
News
Release
New Orleans, La.  Entergy Corporation (NYSE: ETR) today indicated that it expects third quarter 2012 as-reported earnings of approximately $1.88 per share and operational earnings of approximately $1.94 per share. Results for third quarter 2011 were $3.53 per share on both an as-reported basis and an operational basis, which included significant benefits associated with a settlement with the Internal Revenue Service. Entergy also affirmed previously issued operational earnings guidance for 2012.
 
As-reported results are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and are comprised of operational earnings (described below) and special items. The special item in the third quarter of 2012 was due to expenses recorded at the Utility arising out of the proposed spin-off and merger of Entergys electric transmission business with ITC Holdings Corp.
 
The decrease in Utility third quarter 2012 operational earnings reflected substantially higher income tax expense than the prior year, which included the effect of the August 2011 IRS settlement significantly reducing income tax expense. Also contributing to lower results were higher non-fuel operation and maintenance expense and higher depreciation expense.
 
 
 
Entergy Provides Preliminary Third Quarter Earnings Guidance
Page 2
Oct. 15, 2012
 
Partially offsetting these items was an increase in Utility net revenue. The improvement resulted in large part from the absence of the 2011 regulatory charge for customer sharing of the IRS settlement benefits, as well as other pricing adjustments. Retail billed sales volume was down quarter-over-quarter driven by the net effect of weather and Hurricane Isaac. Overall, weather in the current quarter was warmer-than-normal, but it fell short of the significantly warmer-than-normal temperatures experienced one year ago.
 
The quarter-over-quarter decrease in earnings at Entergy Wholesale Commodities was due to lower net revenue and higher non-fuel operation and maintenance expense. EWC net revenue declined due to lower pricing for the nuclear fleet. Also contributing was lower nuclear production due to more unplanned and refueling outages, which included one plant, J.A. FitzPatrick, at 15 refueling days in third quarter 2012 versus no refueling outages last year.
 
Partially offsetting these items were lower depreciation expense and a lower effective income tax rate at EWC. The decrease in depreciation expense was driven by the resolution of Indian Point Unit 2 litigation related to the Department of Energys failure to provide timely spent fuel storage.
 
At Parent & Other, results declined during the quarter due to an increase in income tax expense on Parent & Other activities and higher interest expense.
 
Entergy affirmed its previously issued 2012 operational earnings guidance to be in the range of $4.85 to $5.65 per share. Entergy noted that indications continue to point to the upper end of the operational guidance range. As-reported 2012 guidance was updated to reflect the incremental third quarter special item noted earlier. For the full year 2012, as-reported guidance of $3.44 to $4.24 per share includes the approximately $(1.41) per share of special items for the asset impairment of the Vermont Yankee nuclear power plant and the transmission business spin-off and merger expenses recorded in the first three quarters of 2012.
 
 
 
 
Entergy Provides Preliminary Third Quarter Earnings Guidance
Page 3
Oct. 15, 2012
 
           A teleconference will be held at 10 a.m. CT on Tuesday, Oct. 30, 2012, to discuss Entergys third quarter 2012 earnings announcement, and may be accessed by dialing (719) 457-2080, confirmation code 5414008, no more than 15 minutes prior to the start of the call. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergys website at www.entergy.com. A replay of the teleconference will be available for seven days thereafter by dialing (719) 457-0820, confirmation code 5414008.
 
Entergy Corporation is an i
ntegrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, including more than 10,000 megawatts of nuclear power, making it one of the nations leading nuclear generators. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.8 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $11 billion and approximately 15,000 employees.
 
 
 
Entergy Provides Preliminary Third Quarter Earnings Guidance
Page 4
Oct. 15, 2012
 
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in: (i) Entergys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, (ii)  Entergys Form 10-Q for the quarters ended March 31, 2012 and June 30, 2012 and (iii) Entergys other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; (b) uncertainties associated with rate proceedings, formula rate plans and other cost recovery mechanisms; (c) uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of major storms and recover related restoration costs; (d) nuclear plant relicensing, operating and regulatory risks, including any changes resulting from the nuclear crisis in Japan following its catastrophic earthquake and tsunami; (e) legislative and regulatory actions and risks and uncertainties associated with claims or litigation by or against Entergy and its subsidiaries; (f) conditions in commodity and capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements, in addition to other factors described elsewhere in this release and subsequent securities filings and (g) risks inherent in the proposed spin-off and subsequent merger of Entergys electric transmission business with a subsidiary of ITC Holdings Corp. Entergy cannot provide any assurances that the spin-off and merger transaction will be completed and cannot give any assurance as to the terms on which such transaction will be consummated. The spin-off and merger transaction is subject to certain conditions precedent, including regulatory approvals and approval by ITC Holdings Corp. shareholders.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Pre-Release") contains the non-GAAP financial measure of operational earnings per share.  Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Pre-Release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "special items".  Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are less routine or are related to discontinued businesses.  Management believes the discussion of operational earnings provides useful information in evaluating the ongoing results of Entergy's businesses and assists in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector.
 
The non-GAAP information in the Pre-Release is used in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  The non-GAAP information should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.  The non-GAAP information reflects an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  Investors are strongly encouraged to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.  Non-GAAP information is not standardized; therefore, it may not be possible to compare this information with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names.


