FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20120419140827.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
[ ]      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ]      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ]      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ]      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02.  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibits, is being furnished, not filed, under Item 2.02.
On April 19, 2012, Entergy Corporation issued a public announcement, which is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Entergy Corporation
639 Loyola Avenue
New Orleans, LA 70113
Exhibit 99.1
News
Release
                                                                 
                                                      
 
 
 
New Orleans, La.  Entergy Corporation (NYSE: ETR) today indicated that it expects first quarter 2012 financial results to reflect an as-reported loss of approximately $(0.87) per share and operational earnings of approximately $0.43 per share. First quarter 2012 results included two non-cash charges arising from an asset impairment taken in accordance with financial accounting rules (classified as a special item discussed below) and a write-off of a regulatory asset associated with income taxes (included in operational results discussed below). Results for first quarter 2011 were $1.38 per share on both an as-reported basis and an operational basis. Entergy also updated its previously issued operational earnings guidance for 2012.
 
As-reported results are prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) and are comprised of operational earnings (described below) and special items. Special items were recorded in the first quarter of 2012 for:
 
 
 
 
News Release:  Entergy Provides Preliminary First Quarter Earnings Guidance
Page 2
April 19, 2012
 
Under GAAP, power plants and other long-lived assets are generally required to be accounted for on a historical cost basis, unless a triggering event occurs which requires an impairment evaluation. In the case of Vermont Yankee, as described in our prior financial statement filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Entergy has performed quarterly impairment evaluations since early 2010, triggered by state actions to shut down the plant early. A number of factors and inputs are used in the Vermont Yankee impairment evaluation, including the status of pending legal and state regulatory matters, as well as assumptions about future revenues and costs of the plant. Under the accounting rules, these inputs are required to be estimated as of the end of each quarterly period. The decline in the overall energy market and forward price of energy at March 31, 2012, which is used as an input in the current accounting analysis, yielded a different impairment result now as compared to earlier quarters.
 
The triggering event and impairment result are unique to Vermont Yankee. This impairment does not reflect a change in Entergys point of view of the economic value of the plant assuming continued operation through 2032, nor does it impact the companys continued commitment to invest to assure safe operations of the plant, which is always the top priority. It is also does not reflect a change in Entergys point of view on the legal and state regulatory proceedings associated with obtaining certainty on continued operation of Vermont Yankee.
 
The quarter-over-quarter decrease in Utilitys operational earnings was due primarily to higher income tax expense and lower net revenue. The increase in income tax expense resulted from a first quarter 2012 non-cash adjustment of approximately $0.25 per share to write off a regulatory asset for income taxes to appropriately align the financial accounting treatment with the regulatory treatment of income taxes for certain items. This regulatory asset represented income tax expense currently reflected in rates, and as such, cannot be recovered in the future.
 
 
 
 
News Release:  Entergy Provides Preliminary First Quarter Earnings Guidance
Page 3
April 19, 2012
 
Utility net revenue declined due to a significant unfavorable weather variance reducing sales volumes compared to the first quarter of 2011. Partially offsetting was growth in weather-adjusted sales volumes across the three customer classes. Higher non-fuel operation and maintenance expenses also contributed to the lower earnings results.
 
On an operational basis, Entergy Wholesale Commodities first quarter 2012 earnings were below the prior year period largely due to lower net revenue. This decline in EWCs net revenue was driven primarily by lower pricing associated with the nuclear fleet. Also contributing to the lower results was an increase in non-fuel operation and maintenance expenses.
 
Parent & Others operational results declined during the quarter due to several individually insignificant items.
 
As a result of the non-cash write-offs discussed above and significant unfavorable weather in the first quarter of 2012, Entergy updated its 2012 operational earnings guidance to be in the range of $4.85 to $5.65 per share. The revised operational guidance range also reflects previously identified challenges resulting from the lower-than-planned pension discount rate and other updated pension assumptions and lower market energy prices for EWCs open position, as well as opportunities to offset these challenges. Entergys previous guidance range was $5.40 to $6.20 per share on an operational basis. As-reported earnings guidance for 2012 will be updated to reflect special items as reported throughout the year. Special items for the first quarter of 2012 are expected to total approximately $(1.30) per share.
 
 
 
 
News Release:  Entergy Provides Preliminary First Quarter Earnings Guidance
Page 4
April 19, 2012
 
           A teleconference will be held at 10 a.m. CT on Thursday, April 26, 2012, to discuss Entergys first quarter 2012 earnings announcement, and may be accessed by dialing (719) 457-2080, confirmation code 4034210, no more than 15 minutes prior to the start of the call. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergys website at www.entergy.com. A replay of the teleconference will be available for seven days thereafter by dialing (719) 457-0820, confirmation code 4034210.
 
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.8 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $11 billion and approximately 15,000 employees.
 
 
 
 
News Release:  Entergy Provides Preliminary First Quarter Earnings Guidance
Page 5
April 19, 2012
 
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in: (i) Entergys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 and (ii) Entergys other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; (b) uncertainties associated with rate proceedings, formula rate plans and other cost recovery mechanisms; (c) uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of major storms and recover related restoration costs; (d) nuclear plant relicensing, operating and regulatory risks, including any changes resulting from the nuclear crisis in Japan following its catastrophic earthquake and tsunami; (e) legislative and regulatory actions and risks and uncertainties associated with claims or litigation by or against Entergy and its subsidiaries; (f) conditions in commodity and capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements, in addition to other factors described elsewhere in this release and subsequent securities filings, and (g) risks inherent in the proposed spin-off and subsequent merger of Entergys electric transmission business into a subsidiary of ITC Holdings Corp. Entergy cannot provide any assurances that the spin-off and merger transaction will be completed and cannot give any assurance as to the terms on which such transaction will be consummated. The spin-off and merger transaction is subject to certain conditions precedent, including regulatory approvals and approval by ITC Holdings Corp. shareholders.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
Exhibit 99.1 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Pre-Release") contains the non-GAAP financial measure of operational earnings per share.  Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP. Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Pre-Release of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the impact of "special items".  Special items reflect the impact on earnings of events that are less routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses.  Management believes the discussion of operational earnings provides useful information in evaluating the ongoing results of Entergy's businesses and assists in comparing the company's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector.
 
The non-GAAP information in the Pre-Release is used in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  The non-GAAP information should not be relied upon to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.  The non-GAAP information reflects an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, may provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  Investors are strongly encouraged to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.  Non-GAAP information is not standardized; therefore, it may not be possible to compare this information with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names.


