FILE:ETR/ETR-8K-20120426071720.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2.):
see
 
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 26, 2012, Entergy Corporation issued two public announcements, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto (the Earnings Releases) and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the first quarter 2012.  The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 2.02.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure
On April 26, 2012, Entergy Corporation issued the Earnings Releases, which are attached as exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 hereto and incorporated herein by reference, announcing its results of operations and financial condition for the first quarter 2012.  The information in Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 is being furnished pursuant to this Item 7.01.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Entergy Corporation
 
 
By:
/s/ Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
Theodore H. Bunting, Jr.
Senior Vice President and
Chief Accounting Officer
 
Dated: April 26, 2012
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
INVESTOR NEWS
 
 April 26, 2012
Exhibit 99.1
NEW ORLEANS  Entergy Corporation (NYSE: ETR reported a loss of $(0.86) per share on an as-reported basis and earnings of $0.44 per share on an operational basis for first quarter 2012, as shown in Table 1 below.  A more detailed discussion of quarterly results begins on page 2 of this release.
)
As-reported results for the current quarter included a non-cash charge arising from an asset impairment taken in accordance with financial accounting rules.  The impairment, which contributed $(1.26) per share to the quarters as-reported loss, is discussed in more detail in the Entergy Wholesale Commodities section of this release.
Operational Earnings Highlights for First Quarter 2012
While we had a number of tactical and strategic successes during the quarter, financial results were negatively impacted by a number of items, said .  We continue to make good progress on our previously-announced strategic initiatives related to our transmission business, including our efforts to join MISO, the Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc.  Last week, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission approved MISOs cost allocation methodology for transmission projects once Entergy completes its planned integration into MISO.  This decision ensures that Entergys customers will pay only for transmission projects that benefit them, and widens the pathway to a seamless integration into MISO and an opportunity for customers to realize up to $1.4 billion of projected savings in the first 10 years.
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergys chairman and chief executive officer
Were focused on these major initiatives and all aspects of our business, remaining attentive to safety, operational excellence, risk mitigation, potential growth opportunities and preserving sound creditworthiness.
 
Entergys business highlights also include the following:
 
 
 
 
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10 a.m. CT on Thursday, April 26, 2012, with access by telephone, (719) 457-2080, confirmation code 4034210.  The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergys website at .  A replay of the teleconference will be available by telephone and on Entergys website at as soon as practical after the transcript is filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.  The telephone replay will be available through May 3, 2012 by dialing (719) 457-0820, confirmation code 4034210.
www.entergy.com
www.entergy.com
Consolidated Earnings
Table 2 provides a comparative summary of consolidated earnings per share for first quarter 2012 versus 2011, including a reconciliation of GAAP as-reported earnings to non-GAAP operational earnings.  The first quarter 2012 earnings declined compared to a year ago.  A detailed discussion of the factors driving quarter results at each business segment follows.
Detailed earnings variance analysis is included in Appendix B-1 to this release.  In addition, Appendix B-2 provides details of special items shown in Table 2 above.
Consolidated Net Cash Flow Provided by Operating Activities
Entergys net cash flow provided by operating activities in first quarter 2012 was $601 million compared to
$323 million in first quarter 2011.  The overall quarterly increase was due primarily to:
These increases were partially offset by a reduction in net revenue.
Table 3 provides the components of net cash flow provided by operating activities contributed by each business with quarterly comparisons.
 
 
 
 
In first quarter 2012, Utilitys earnings were $0.35 per share on an as-reported basis and $0.38 per share on an operational basis, compared to as-reported and operational earnings of $0.91 in first quarter 2011.  Earnings for the Utility in the current quarter reflect higher income tax expense, lower net revenue and higher non-fuel operation and maintenance expense.
Higher income tax expense resulted from Entergy recording an adjustment to write off a net regulatory asset for income taxes to align the financial accounting with the actual ratemaking treatment.  The adjustment increased income tax expense by approximately $46 million.  Entergy Gulf States Louisiana (EGSL) determined that its regulatory asset for income taxes was overstated because there was a difference between the regulatory treatment of income taxes associated with certain items (primarily pension expense) and the financial accounting treatment of those taxes.  Electric retail rates were developed using the normalization method of accounting for income taxes, while the financial accounting assumed the flow through method of accounting.  As a result, EGSL had a regulatory asset representing expected future recovery of a portion of income tax expense, while the tax expense was already being collected in rates and would not be recovered in the future.
Utility net revenue was lower than the same quarter last year.  The decrease in net revenue was attributable to significantly milder-than-normal weather experienced in the first quarter of 2012 compared to significantly colder-than-normal weather in the same period a year ago.  The effect of milder weather was partially offset by weather-adjusted sales growth.  The higher non-fuel operation and maintenance expense was driven by increases in compensation and benefit costs (largely post-employment benefits), fossil-related outage costs and the absence of nuclear insurance refunds received in 2011.
Electricity usage, in gigawatt-hour sales by customer segment, is included in Table 4.  Current quarter sales reflect the following:
Sales growth on a weather-adjusted basis was 3.3 percent for the quarter.  The Louisiana jurisdictions (including the city of New Orleans) recorded the strongest results for residential sales growth.  Industrial sales growth was largely due to expansions.  This sector saw growth from both large and small industrial customers.  Improvements in chemicals were partially offset by declines in refineries and pipelines.
Table 4 provides a comparative summary of Utility operational performance measures.
 
 
Appendix C provides information on selected pending local and federal regulatory cases.
 
 
 
 
Entergy Wholesale Commodities operational adjusted EBITDA was $144 million in the first quarter of 2012, compared to $253 million in the same period a year ago, as shown in Table 5.  The decline was largely due to lower net revenue from the nuclear portfolio on lower energy pricing.  The average realized revenue per megawatt hour for the nuclear fleet was approximately $50, down 12 percent from $57 in the same period last year.  Nuclear generation also declined slightly due primarily to an increase in refueling and other outage days.  These net revenue decreases were partially offset by higher net revenue from the Rhode Island State Energy Center (RISEC), which was acquired in December 2011.  Higher non-fuel operation and maintenance expense also contributed to the adjusted EBITDA decline driven by higher compensation and benefits expense (largely related to post-employment benefits) and the RISEC acquisition.
Table 6
 
provides a comparative summary of Entergy Wholesale Commodities operational performance measures.
 
Entergy Wholesale Commodities first quarter 2012 results reflect an as-reported loss of $(0.95) per share and earnings of $0.31 per share on an operational basis, compared to $0.68 per share on an as-reported basis and an operational basis in first quarter 2011.  In addition to the operational adjusted EBITDA drivers noted above, an asset impairment recorded in the first quarter of the current year contributed to the as-reported decrease.  Under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), power plants and other long-lived assets are generally required to be accounted for on a historical cost basis, unless a triggering event occurs which requires an impairment evaluation.  In the case of Vermont Yankee, as described in our prior financial statement filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Entergy has performed quarterly impairment evaluations since early 2010, triggered by state actions to shut down the plant early.  A number of factors and inputs are used in the Vermont Yankee impairment evaluation, including the status of pending legal and state regulatory matters, as well as assumptions about future revenues and costs of the plant.  Under the accounting rules, these inputs are required to be estimated as of the end of each quarterly period.  The decline in the overall energy market and forward price of energy at March 31, 2012, which is used as an input in the current accounting analysis, yielded a different impairment result now as compared to earlier quarters, resulting in a pre-tax impairment charge of $(356) million, or $(1.26) per share after-tax.  This impairment is classified as a special item and is not included in operational results.
 
 
 
 
As previously noted, the triggering event and impairment result are unique to Vermont Yankee.  This impairment does not reflect a change in Entergys point of view of the economic value of the plant assuming continued operation through 2032, nor does it impact the companys continued commitment to invest to assure safe operations of the plant, which is always the top priority.  It also does not reflect a change in Entergys point of view on the legal and state regulatory proceedings associated with obtaining certainty on continued operation of Vermont Yankee.
Table 7 provides capacity and generation sold forward projections for Entergy Wholesale Commodities fleet.
 
 
 
 
 
Parent & Other reported a loss of $(0.26) per share on as-reported basis and $(0.25) per share on an operational basis in first quarter 2012, compared to an as-reported and operational loss of $(0.21) per share in first quarter 2011.  Parent & Others earnings decrease was due to several individually insignificant items.
Entergy updated its 2012 earnings guidance range to be $3.55 to $4.35 per share on an as-reported basis and affirmed operational guidance of $4.85 to $5.65 per share previously updated on April 19, 2012.  The revised guidance ranges reflect:
The revised as-reported guidance range also reflects special items recorded in the current quarter (which totaled $1.30 per share), including the asset impairment on the Vermont Yankee power plant.  As-reported earnings guidance for 2012 does not reflect any potential future expenses for the special item to be recorded in connection with the proposed spin-merge of Entergys transmission business.  As-reported 2012 guidance will be updated throughout the year as these transaction-related expenses are incurred.
Year-over-year changes are shown as point estimates and are applied to 2011 earnings to compute the 2012 guidance midpoint.  Drivers for the 2012 guidance range are listed separately.  Because there is a range of possible outcomes associated with each earnings driver, a range is applied to the guidance midpoint to produce Entergys guidance range.  The 2012 earnings guidance is detailed in Table 8below.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Key assumptions supporting 2012 operational earnings guidance are as follows:
Utility
Entergy Wholesale Commodities
Parent & Other
 
 
 
 
Share Repurchase Program
Other
Revised 2012 Guidance Range
Earnings guidance for 2012 should be considered in association with earnings sensitivities as shown in Table 9.  These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in operational earnings resulting from changes in various revenue and expense drivers.  Traditionally, the most significant variables for earnings drivers are retail sales for Utility and energy prices for Entergy Wholesale Commodities.  In addition, the broader earnings guidance range for 2012 also takes into consideration a number of regulatory initiatives (rate actions) underway across the Utility jurisdictions.
Estimated annual impacts shown in Table 9 are intended to be indicative rather than precise guidance.
 
 
 
 
 
Entergy believes it offers a long-term, competitive utility investment opportunity combined with a valuable option represented by a unique, clean, non-utility generation business located in attractive power markets. Table 10 summarizes the current long-term financial outlook for 2010 through 2014, which does not reflect the effects of the proposed spin-merge of the transmission business discussed in .
Appendix A
The long-term financial outlook should be considered in association with 2014 financial sensitivities as shown in Table 11.  These sensitivities illustrate the estimated change in earnings or adjusted EBITDA resulting from changes in business drivers.  Estimated impacts shown in Table 11 are intended to be illustrative.
 
 
 
 
 
Seven appendices are presented in this section as follows:
 
 
 
 
provides information on Entergys plans to spin off its transmission business and merge that business into a subsidiary of ITC Holdings Corp.
Appendix
A
 
Entergys Transmission Business Overview
Entergys electric transmission business consists of approximately 15,700 miles of interconnected transmission lines at voltages of 69kV and above and associated substations across its utility service territory in the Mid-South.  Following the completion of the transaction, ITC will become one of the largest electric transmission companies in the U.S., with over 30,000 miles of transmission lines, spanning from the Great Lakes to the Gulf Coast.
Transaction Overview
Entergy and ITC Boards of Directors approved a definitive agreement under which Entergy will spin off and then merge its electric transmission business into a subsidiary of ITC.  Terms of the transaction agreements include:
Entergy expects to receive gross cash proceeds of $1.775 billion from indebtedness that will be incurred in connection with the transaction, and this indebtedness will be assumed by ITC at the close of the merger.  Entergy expects to utilize most of the cash proceeds to retire debt associated with the transmission business at its utility operating companies and the balance for debt reduction at the parent, Entergy Corporation.
Closing Conditions and Approvals
The transaction is subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions.  Primary filings and approvals required are summarized below.
 
Upcoming activities in the second quarter will focus largely on regulatory filings with Entergys retail jurisdictions as well as FERC.  Initial filings are expected to begin mid-year. Work on other key approvals such as ITC shareholder approval, pre-merger notification under the Hart Scott Rodino Act, and IRS private letter ruling is expected to begin in the second and third quarters of 2012.
Expected Close
Completion of the transaction is expected in 2013 subject to the satisfaction of certain closing conditions, including the required approvals and filings discussed above.
 
 
 
 
Additional Information and Where to Find It
ITC and Transco will file registration statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) registering shares of ITC common stock and Transco common units to be issued to Entergy shareholders in connection with the proposed transactions.  ITC will also file a proxy statement with the SEC that will be sent to the shareholders of ITC.  Entergy shareholders are urged to read the prospectus and/or information statement that will be included in the registration statements and any other relevant documents, because they contain important information about ITC, Transco and the proposed transactions.  ITC shareholders are urged to read the proxy statement and any other relevant documents because they contain important information about Transco and the proposed transactions.  The proxy statement, prospectus and/or information statement, and other documents relating to the proposed transactions (when they are available) can be obtained free of charge from the SECs website at www.sec.gov.  The documents, when available, can also be obtained free of charge from Entergy upon written request to Entergy Corporation, Investor Relations, P.O. Box 61000, New Orleans, LA 70161 or by calling Entergys Investor Relations information line at 1-888-ENTERGY (368-3749), or from ITC upon written request to ITC Holdings Corp., Investor Relations, 27175 Energy Way, Novi, MI 48377 or by calling 248-946-3000.
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix B-1 provides details of first quarter 2012 vs. 2011 as-reported and operational earnings variance analysis for Utility, Entergy Wholesale Commodities, Parent & Other, and Consolidated.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix B-2 lists special items by business with quarter-to-quarter comparisons.  Amounts are shown on both earnings per share and net income bases.  Special items are those events that are not routine, are related to prior periods, or are related to discontinued businesses.  Special items are included in as-reported earnings per share consistent with GAAP, but are excluded from operational earnings per share.  As a result, operational earnings per share is considered a non-GAAP measure.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appendix D-1 provides comparative financial performance measures for the current quarter.  Appendix D-2 provides historical financial performance measures and operating performance metrics for the trailing eight quarters.  Financial performance measures in both tables include those calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP, as well as those that are considered non-GAAP measures.
As-reported measures are computed in accordance with GAAP as they include all components of net income, including special items.  Operational measures are non-GAAP measures as they are calculated using operational net income, which excludes the impact of special items.  A reconciliation of operational measures to as-reported measures is provided in G
Appendix
.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The capital plan for 2012 through 2014 anticipates $7.1 billion for investment, including $3.2 billion of maintenance capital, as shown in Appendix E.  The remaining $3.9 billion is for specific investments and other initiatives such as:
 
 
 
Appendix Fprovides definitions of certain operational performance measures, as well as GAAP and non-GAAP financial measures, all of which are referenced in this release.
 
 
 
 
 
Financial measures defined in the below table include measures prepared in accordance with GAAP, as well as non-GAAP measures.  Non-GAAP measures are included in this release in order to provide metrics that remove the effect of not routine financial impacts from commonly used financial metrics.
 
 
 
-1, -2 and -3 provide reconciliations of various non-GAAP financial measures disclosed in this release to their most comparable GAAP measure.
Appendix G
Appendix G
Appendix G
 
 
 
 
 
 
*********************************************************************************************************************************
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in: (i) Entergys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 and (ii) Entergys other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; (b) uncertainties associated with rate proceedings, formula rate plans and other cost recovery mechanisms; (c) uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of major storms and recover related restoration costs; (d) nuclear plant relicensing, operating and regulatory risks, including any changes resulting from the nuclear crisis in Japan following its catastrophic earthquake and tsunami; (e) legislative and regulatory actions and risks and uncertainties associated with claims or litigation by or against Entergy and its subsidiaries; (f) conditions in commodity and capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements, in addition to other factors described elsewhere in this release and subsequent securities filings, and (g) risks inherent in the proposed spin-off and subsequent merger of Entergys electric transmission business into a subsidiary of ITC Holdings Corp. Entergy cannot provide any assurances that the spin-off and merger transaction will be completed and cannot give any assurance as to the terms on which such transaction will be consummated. The spin-off and merger transaction is subject to certain conditions precedent, including regulatory approvals and approval by ITC Holdings Corp. shareholders.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
New Orleans, La. Entergy Corporation (NYSE: ETR) today reported an as-reported loss of $151.7 million, or 86 cents per share, compared with as-reported earnings of $248.7 million, or $1.38 per share, for first quarter 2011. On an operational basis, Entergys first quarter 2012 earnings were $79.0 million, or 44 cents per share, compared with $248.7 million, or $1.38 per share, in first quarter 2011.
                    
       *GAAP refers to United States generally accepted accounting principles.
   
   
   
As-reported results for the current quarter included a non-cash charge arising from an asset impairment taken in accordance with financial accounting rules. The impairment, which contributed $223.5 million, or $1.26 per share, to the quarters as-reported loss, is discussed in more detail in the Entergy Wholesale Commodities section of this release.
 
 
 
-more-
 
 
Entergy Reports First Quarter Financial Results
Page 2
April 26, 2012
 
While we had a number of tactical and strategic successes during the quarter, financial results were negatively impacted by a number of items, said . We continue to make good progress on our previously announced strategic initiatives related to our transmission business, including our efforts to join MISO, the Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. Last week, the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission approved MISOs cost allocation methodology for transmission projects once Entergy completes its planned integration into MISO. This decision ensures that Entergys customers will pay only for transmission projects that benefit them, and widens the pathway to a seamless integration into MISO and an opportunity for customers to realize up to $1.4 billion of projected savings in the first 10 years.
J. Wayne Leonard, Entergys chairman and chief executive officer
 
Were focused on these major initiatives and all aspects of our business, remaining attentive to safety, operational excellence, risk mitigation, potential growth opportunities and preserving sound creditworthiness.
 
 
 
-more-
 
 
Entergy Reports First Quarter Financial Results
Page 3
April 26, 2012
 
 
Entergy will host a teleconference to discuss this release at 10 a.m. CT on Thursday, April 26, 2012, with access by telephone, (719) 457-2080, confirmation code 4034210. The call and presentation slides can also be accessed via Entergys website at www.entergy.com. A replay of the teleconference will be available by telephone and on Entergys website at www.entergy.com as soon as practical after the transcript is filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. The telephone replay will be available through May 3, 2012 by dialing (719) 457-0820, confirmation code 4034210.
 
In first quarter 2012, Utilitys earnings were $62.9 million, or 35 cents per share, on an as- reported basis and $68.7 million, or 38 cents per share, on an operational basis, compared to $164.3 million, or 91 cents per share, on both as-reported and operational bases in first quarter 2011. Earnings for the Utility in the current quarter reflect higher income tax expense, lower net revenue and higher non-fuel operation and maintenance expense.
 
 
 
-more-
 
 
Entergy Reports First Quarter Financial Results
Page 4
April 26, 2012
Higher income tax expense resulted from Entergy recording an adjustment to write off a net regulatory asset for income taxes to align the financial accounting with the actual ratemaking treatment. The adjustment increased income tax expense by approximately $46 million. Entergy Gulf States Louisiana determined that its regulatory asset for income taxes was overstated because there was a difference between the regulatory treatment of income taxes associated with certain items (primarily pension expense) and the financial accounting treatment of those taxes. Electric retail rates were developed using the normalization method of accounting for income taxes, while the financial accounting assumed the flow through method of accounting. As a result, Entergy Gulf States Louisiana had a regulatory asset representing expected future recovery of a portion of income tax expense, while the tax expense was already being collected in rates and would not be recovered in the future.
 
Utility net revenue was lower than the same quarter last year. The decrease in net revenue was attributable to significantly milder-than-normal weather experienced in the first quarter of 2012 compared to significantly colder-than-normal weather in the same period a year ago. The effect of milder weather was partially offset by weather-adjusted sales growth. The higher non-fuel operation and maintenance expense was driven by increases in compensation and benefit costs (largely post-employment benefits), fossil-related outage costs and the absence of nuclear insurance refunds received in 2011.
 
Residential sales in first quarter 2012, on a weather-adjusted basis, increased 2.6 percent compared to first quarter 2011. Commercial and governmental sales, on a weather-adjusted basis, increased 2.4 percent quarter over quarter. Industrial sales in the first quarter increased 4.6 percent compared to the same quarter of 2011. Overall retail sales growth on a weather-adjusted basis was 3.3 percent for the quarter. The Louisiana jurisdictions including the city of New Orleans recorded the strongest results for residential sales growth. Industrial sales growth was largely due to expansions. This sector saw growth from both large and small industrial customers. Improvements in chemicals were partially offset by declines in refineries and pipelines.
-
-
 
 
-more-
 
 
Entergy Reports First Quarter Financial Results
Page 5
April 26, 2012
Entergy Wholesale Commodities reported a loss of $168.5 million, or 95 cents per share, on an as-reported basis for first quarter 2012, compared to earnings of $122.6 million, or 68 per cents per share, for first quarter 2011. On an operational basis, Entergy Wholesale Commodities earnings were $55.0 million, or 31 cents per share, in first quarter 2012, compared to $122.6 million, or 68 cents per share, in first quarter 2011.
 
Entergy Wholesale Commodities operational adjusted EBITDA (earnings before interest, income taxes, depreciation and amortization, and interest and investment income excluding decommissioning expense and special items) was $144 million in the first quarter of 2012, compared to $253 million in the same period a year ago. The decline was largely due to lower net revenue from the nuclear portfolio on lower energy pricing. The average realized revenue per megawatt hour for the nuclear fleet was approximately $50, down 12 percent from $57 in the same period last year. Nuclear generation also declined slightly due primarily to an increase in refueling and other outage days. These net revenue decreases were partially offset by higher net revenue from the Rhode Island State Energy Center, which was acquired in December 2011. Higher non-fuel operation and maintenance expense also contributed to the operational adjusted EBITDA decline driven by higher compensation and benefits expense (largely related to post-employment benefits) and the Rhode Island State Energy Center acquisition.
 
 
-more-
 
 
Entergy Reports First Quarter Financial Results
Page 6
April 26, 2012
In addition to the drivers noted above, an asset impairment recorded in the first quarter of the current year contributed to the as-reported decrease. Under generally accepted accounting principles, power plants and other long-lived assets are generally required to be accounted for on a historical cost basis, unless a triggering event occurs which requires an impairment evaluation. In the case of Vermont Yankee, as described in our prior financial statement filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, Entergy has performed quarterly impairment evaluations since early 2010, triggered by state actions to shut down the plant early. A number of factors and inputs are used in the Vermont Yankee impairment evaluation, including the status of pending legal and state regulatory matters, as well as assumptions about future revenues and costs of the plant. Under the accounting rules, these inputs are required to be estimated as of the end of each quarterly period. The decline in the overall energy market and forward price of energy at March 31, 2012, which is used as an input in the current accounting analysis, yielded a different impairment result now as compared to earlier quarters, resulting in a pre-tax impairment charge of $356 million, or $1.26 per share after tax. This impairment is classified as a special item and is not included in operational results.
 
As previously noted, the triggering event and impairment result are unique to Vermont Yankee. This impairment does not reflect a change in Entergys point of view of the economic value of the plant assuming continued operation through 2032, nor does it impact the companys continued commitment to invest to assure safe operations of the plant, which is always the top priority. It also does not reflect a change in Entergys point of view on the legal and state regulatory proceedings associated with obtaining certainty on continued operation of Vermont Yankee.
 
Parent & Other reported a loss of $46.1 million, or 26 cents per share, on an as-reported basis and $44.6 million, or 25 cents per share, on an operational basis for first quarter 2012. This compares to a loss of $38.2 million, or 21 cents per share, on both as-reported and operational bases in first quarter 2011. Parent & Others earnings decrease was due to several individually insignificant items.
 
 
-more-
 
 
Entergy Reports First Quarter Financial Results
Page 7
April 26, 2012
Entergy updated its 2012 earnings guidance range to be $3.55 to $4.35 per share on an as-reported basis and affirmed operational guidance of $4.85 to $5.65 per share previously updated on April 19, 2012. The revised guidance ranges reflect:
 
 
The revised as-reported guidance range also reflects special items recorded in the current quarter (which totaled $1.30 per share), including the asset impairment on the Vermont Yankee power plant. As-reported earnings guidance for 2012 does not reflect any potential future expenses for the special item to be recorded in connection with the proposed spin-merge of Entergys transmission business. As-reported 2012 guidance will be updated throughout the year as these transaction-related expenses are incurred.
 
 
 
Entergy Reports First Quarter Financial Results
Page 8
April 26, 2012
Entergy believes it offers a long-term, competitive utility investment opportunity combined with a valuable option represented by a unique, clean, non-utility generation business located in attractive power markets.
 
The current long-term financial outlook for 2010 through 2014 (prepared November 2011), excluding the effects of the proposed spin-merge of the transmission business discussed below, includes the following:
 
Earnings:
 
 
 
 
 
Entergy Reports First Quarter Financial Results
Page 9
April 26, 2012
Capital deployment:
 
 
Credit quality:
 
Entergys electric transmission business consists of approximately 15,700 miles of interconnected transmission lines at voltages of 69kV and above and associated substations across its utility service territory in the Mid-South. Following the completion of the transaction, ITC will become one of the largest electric transmission companies in the U.S., with over 30,000 miles of transmission lines, spanning from the Great Lakes to the Gulf Coast.
 
 
 
 
Entergy Reports First Quarter Financial Results
Page 10
April 26, 2012
Entergy and ITC Boards of Directors approved a definitive agreement under which Entergy will spin off and then merge its electric transmission business into a subsidiary of ITC. Terms of the transaction agreements include:
 
 
Entergy expects to receive gross cash proceeds of $1.775 billion from indebtedness that will be incurred in connection with the transaction, and this indebtedness will be assumed by ITC at the close of the merger. Entergy expects to utilize most of the cash proceeds to retire debt associated with the transmission business at its utility operating companies and the balance for debt reduction at the parent, Entergy Corporation.
 
The transaction is subject to the satisfaction of customary closing conditions. Primary filings and approvals required are summarized below.
 
Entergys Retail Regulators:
 
 
 
 
 
Entergy Reports First Quarter Financial Results
Page 11
April 26, 2012
 
 
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission:
 
 
Hart-Scott-Rodino Act:
 
 
Internal Revenue Service:
 
 
Securities and Exchange Commission:
 
 
ITC Shareholders:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Entergy Reports First Quarter Financial Results
Page 12
April 26, 2012
 
 
Upcoming activities in the second quarter will focus largely on regulatory filings with Entergys retail jurisdictions as well as FERC. Initial filings are expected to begin mid-year. Work on other key approvals such as ITC shareholder approval, pre-merger notification under the Hart Scott Rodino Act, and IRS private letter ruling is expected to begin in the second and third quarters of 2012.
 
Completion of the transaction is expected in 2013 subject to the satisfaction of certain closing conditions, including the required approvals and filings discussed above.
 
ITC and Transco will file registration statements with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) registering shares of ITC common stock and Transco common units to be issued to Entergy shareholders in connection with the proposed transactions. ITC will also file a proxy statement with the SEC that will be sent to the shareholders of ITC. Entergy shareholders are urged to read the prospectus and/or information statement that will be included in the registration statements and any other relevant documents, because they contain important information about ITC, Transco and the proposed transactions. ITC shareholders are urged to read the proxy statement and any other relevant documents because they contain important information about Transco and the proposed transactions. The proxy statement, prospectus and/or information statement, and other documents relating to the proposed transactions (when they are available) can be obtained free of charge from the SECs website at www.sec.gov. The documents, when available, can also be obtained free of charge from Entergy upon written request to Entergy Corporation, Investor Relations, P.O. Box 61000, New Orleans, LA 70161 or by calling Entergys Investor Relations information line at 1-888-ENTERGY (368-3749), or from ITC upon written request to ITC Holdings Corp., Investor Relations, 27175 Energy Way, Novi, MI 48377 or by calling 248-946-3000.
 
 
 
 
 
Entergy Reports First Quarter Financial Results
Page 13
April 26, 2012
Entergy Corporation is an integrated energy company engaged primarily in electric power production and retail distribution operations. Entergy owns and operates power plants with approximately 30,000 megawatts of electric generating capacity, and it is the second-largest nuclear generator in the United States. Entergy delivers electricity to 2.8 million utility customers in Arkansas, Louisiana, Mississippi and Texas. Entergy has annual revenues of more than $11 billion and approximately 15,000 employees.
 
Additional information regarding Entergys quarterly results of operations, regulatory proceedings and other operations is available in Entergys investor news release dated April 26, 2012, a copy of which has been filed today with the Securities and Exchange Commission on Form 8-K and is available on Entergys investor relations website at .
www.entergy.com/investor_relations
 
In this news release, and from time to time, Entergy makes certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Except to the extent required by the federal securities laws, Entergy undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise.
Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and uncertainties. There are factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements, including (a) those factors discussed in: (i) Entergys Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 and (ii) Entergys other reports and filings made under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; (b) uncertainties associated with rate proceedings, formula rate plans and other cost recovery mechanisms; (c) uncertainties associated with efforts to remediate the effects of major storms and recover related restoration costs; (d) nuclear plant relicensing, operating and regulatory risks, including any changes resulting from the nuclear crisis in Japan following its catastrophic earthquake and tsunami; (e) legislative and regulatory actions and risks and uncertainties associated with claims or litigation by or against Entergy and its subsidiaries; (f) conditions in commodity and capital markets during the periods covered by the forward-looking statements, in addition to other factors described elsewhere in this release and subsequent securities filings, and (g) risks inherent in the proposed spin-off and subsequent merger of Entergys electric transmission business into a subsidiary of ITC Holdings Corp. Entergy cannot provide any assurances that the spin-off and merger transaction will be completed and cannot give any assurance as to the terms on which such transaction will be consummated. The spin-off and merger transaction is subject to certain conditions precedent, including regulatory approvals and approval by ITC Holdings Corp. shareholders.
 
 
 
Appendix A provides a reconciliation of GAAP consolidated as-reported earnings to non-GAAP consolidated operational earnings.
Appendix B provides a reconciliation of Entergy Wholesale Commodities GAAP net income to non-GAAP Operational Adjusted EBITDA.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 to this Report on Form 8-K (the "Releases"), contain non-GAAP financial measures.  Generally, a non-GAAP financial measure is a numerical measure of a company's performance, financial position, or cash flows that either excludes or includes amounts that are not normally excluded or included in the most directly comparable measure calculated and presented in accordance with United States generally accepted accounting principles, or GAAP.  Pursuant to the requirements of Regulation G, Entergy has provided quantitative reconciliations within the Releases and the presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measures.
 
Certain non-GAAP measures in the Releases could differ from GAAP only in that the figure or ratio states or includes operational earnings per share.  Operational earnings per share is presented for each of Entergy's reportable business segments as well as on a consolidated basis.  Operational earnings per share is not calculated in accordance with GAAP because it excludes the effect of "special items."  Special items reflect the effect on earnings of events that are less routine or are related to discontinued businesses.  In addition, other financial measures including return on average invested capital, return on average common equity, and net margin are included on both an operational and as-reported basis.  In each case, the metrics defined as "operational" would exclude the effect of special items as defined above.  Management believes that financial metrics calculated using operational earnings could provide useful information to investors in evaluating the ongoing results of Entergy's businesses and could assist investors in comparing Entergy's operating performance to the operating performance of others in the energy sector.
 
Other non-GAAP measures, adjusted EBITDA; operational adjusted EBITDA; total gross liquidity; debt to capital, excluding securitization debt; net debt to net capital, excluding securitization debt; and net debt to net capital, including off-balance sheet liabilities, excluding securitization debt; are measures Entergy uses internally for management and board discussions and cash budgeting and performance monitoring activities to gauge the overall strength of its business.  Entergy believes the above data could provide useful information to investors in evaluating Entergy's ongoing financial results and flexibility, and could assist investors in comparing Entergy's cash availability to the cash availability of others in the energy sector.
 
The non-GAAP financial measures and other reported adjusted items in Entergy's Releases are presented in addition to, and in conjunction with, results presented in accordance with GAAP.  These non-GAAP financial measures should not be used to the exclusion of GAAP financial measures.  These non-GAAP financial measures reflect an additional way of viewing aspects of our operations that, when viewed with our GAAP results and the accompanying reconciliations to corresponding GAAP financial measures, could provide a more complete understanding of factors and trends affecting our business.  Investors are strongly encouraged to review our consolidated financial statements and publicly filed reports in their entirety and to not rely on any single financial measure.  Non-GAAP financial measures are not standardized; therefore, it might not be possible to compare these financial measures with other companies' non-GAAP financial measures having the same or similar names.
 
 
 
 


