FILE:ACE/ACE-8K-20030429215841.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
 
See Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On April 29, 2003, ACE Limited issued a press release reporting its first quarter 2003 results and the availability of its first quarter financial supplement. The press release and the financial supplement are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
 
In accordance with general instructions B.2 and B.6 of Form 8-K, the information in this report, including exhibits, is furnished pursuant to Items 9 and 12 and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
DATE: April 29, 2003
 

 
 
 
 
 
HAMILTON, Bermuda  April 29, 2003  ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE) today reported the results of operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2003. Highlights for the quarter are as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Brian Duperreault, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ACE Limited, commented: "This was a good quarter for us by any standard of measurement. We were able to demonstrate the earning power we have been building over the last three years. We benefited from growth in earned premiums, improved underwriting margins and strong positive cash flow. However, low investment yields limited our growth in investment income to 3%, which continues to lag the growth in underwriting income. Our annualized ROE from operations was 16.7%.
( 3 )
In summary, an excellent start for the current fiscal year."
 
Please refer to the ACE Financial Supplement, which is posted on the Company's website, for more detailed information on individual segment performance, together with additional disclosure on reinsurance recoverable, loss reserves, financial guaranty portfolio, investment portfolio and capital structure. ACE's website reference (url) is http://media.corporate-ir.net/media_files/nys/ace/reports/fin_supp_march_31_2003.xls.
 
ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE) will host a live webcast of its first quarter earnings conference call on Wednesday, April 30, 2003, beginning at 8:30 a.m. EST. The public may access both the webcast, available on a listen-only basis, and the financial supplement at www.acelimited.com. Please refer to our website under "Investor Information, Calendar of Events", one half hour before, for further webcast details. Individuals who access the webcast will be asked to identify themselves and their affiliation. A replay of the webcast will be available following the live webcast on Wednesday, April 30, 2003 until Wednesday, May 14, 2003 at 5:00 p.m. EDT.
 
The ACE Group of Companies provides insurance and reinsurance for a diverse group of clients. The ACE Group conducts its business on a global basis with operating subsidiaries in nearly 50 countries. Additional information can be found at:
www.acelimited.com.
 
 
 
 
 
Application of the Safe Harbor of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
Any forward-looking statements made in this press release reflect the Company's current views with respect to future events and financial performance and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in these statements. For example, the Company's forward-looking statements could be affected by competition, pricing and policy term trends, the levels of new and renewal business achieved, market acceptance, changes in demand, the frequency of unpredictable catastrophic events, actual loss experience, uncertainties in the reserving or settlement process, the impact of aggregate policy coverage limits, the impact of bankruptcies of various asbestos producers and related business, new theories of liability, judicial and legislative developments, litigation tactics, the amount and timing of reinsurance recoverable, actual market developments, rating agency action, possible terrorism or the outbreak and effects of war and economic, political, regulatory, insurance and reinsurance business conditions, as well as management's response to these factors, and other factors identified in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
Application of the Safe Harbor of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995:
 
Any forward-looking statements made in this financial supplement reflect the Company's current views with respect to future events and financial performance and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in these statements. For example, the Company's forward-looking statements concerning reserves and recoverables could be affected by the frequency of unpredictable catastrophic events, actual loss experience which differs from the Company's assumptions, uncertainties in the reserving or settlement process, the impact of aggregate policy coverage limits, the impact of bankruptcies of various asbestos producers and related business, new theories of liability, judicial and legislative developments, litigation tactics, credit developments among reinsurers and other factors identified in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002 and in the Company's earnings press release, which is available on the Company's website. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Through its Financial Services segment, the Company is an active participant in the financial guaranty market. The Company's financial guaranty exposure comprises exposure to municipal and non-municipal obligations. At March 31, 2003, the Company had total financial guaranty exposure outstanding of $82.6 billion of which 60.0 percent represented exposure to municipal obligations and 40.0 percent to non-municipal obligations.
 
The financial guaranty portfolio is broadly diversified by payment source, geographic location, and maturity schedule. The Company limits its exposure to losses by underwriting primarily investment grade obligations. The following details the composition of the Company's financial guaranty business:
 
 
 
 
The greatest proportion of the Company's municipal financial guaranty exposure (23.7%), comprises general obligation bonds that are supported by the issuer's taxing authority and of special revenue bonds and other special obligations of states and local governments that are supported by the issuer's ability to impose and collect fees and charges for public services or specific projects. Maturities for municipal obligations can range from one to 30 years, with the average maturity in the 12-15 year range. The weighted average credit quality of the municipal portfolio was A as of March 31, 2003.
 
The Company's non-municipal exposure includes exposure to asset-backed obligations, including those backed by consumer receivables, commercial receivables and collateralized debt obligations ("CDOs") as well as single name corporate obligations. Legal maturities for non-municipal transactions range from 1-30 years. Maturities of single name corporate credit default swaps (CDS) range from 1-5 years with an average maturity of 1.8 years. The weighted average credit quality of the non-municipal portfolio was AA- as of March 31, 2003.
 
The Company conducts its financial guaranty business by entering into insurance and reinsurance arrangements as well as CDS. Exposure to CDS included in total exposure amounted to $21.5 billion and $20.7 billion at March 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, respectively. The Company's principal CDS exposure is to CDOs and single name corporate obligations. The preponderance of the Company's CDO exposure is highly rated senior layer CDOs. Senior Layer CDOs are structured with first loss protection in the form of subordination or over collateralization so that the Company's risk typically attaches at or above the AAA rating level. The Company also participates in Funded Equity CDO transactions wherein a substantial portion of the Company's exposure is mitigated by premium. Rate on line for such transactions is typically 75%-85% of the total exposure.
 
Ratings distributions of the Company's senior layer CDOs and single name corporate credit default swaps as of March 31, 2003 are shown below:
 
 
 
Because credit default swaps are considered derivative transactions under FAS 133, the Company is required to mark-to-market its outstanding exposure at each financial reporting date. This is in contrast to the accounting treatment for a similar risk that is written as an insurance contract and is required in spite of the fact that the Company does not trade its credit default swap positions. Rather, its business is analogous to a buy and hold strategy. The mark-to-market adjustment reflects the estimated cost to the Company to purchase mirror protection on its outstanding exposures and is not an estimate of expected losses incurred. Expected losses are provided for in outstanding loss reserves, which the Company believes are adequate. In the first quarter, the Company recorded a FAS 133 mark-to-market loss before tax of $2.1 million.
 
The following table summarizes the Company's scheduled outstanding credit default swap portfolio by year as of March 31, 2003:
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
 
Net Reinsurance Recoverable by Division
 
 
As illustrated in the table above, it is important to consider the composition of the recoverable balance and the related exposures in three components: Brandywine, Westchester and Active Operations recoverable. Active operations include the run-off operations of CIS. Additional information on reinsurance recoverable on a consolidated basis and for active operations for December 31, 2002 can be found on pages 25 and 26, respectively.
 
The Company's obligations with respect to further funding of the Brandywine runoff are limited pursuant to the Brandywine Restructuring Order under an $800 million aggregate excess of loss reinsurance agreement. (Refer to the "Asbestos and Environmental Claims" section of the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations" incorporated into our recently filed Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002 for additional information about the order and other Company obligations.) At December 31, 2002, approximately $466 million in losses and recoverable bad debt reserves were ceded to the aggregate excess of loss reinsurance agreement leaving a remaining limit of approximately $334 million.
 
As part of the Westchester acquisition, National Indemnity provided reinsurance protection for all losses occurring prior to 1997. At December 31, 2002, the remaining limit in the reinsurance cover was approximately $600 million.
 
The remaining balance of reinsurance recoverable consist of recoverables primarily associated with active operations.
 
Detail on Reinsurance Recoverable on Paid Losses and Loss Expenses
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Reinsurance Recoverable
 
 
At December 31, 2002, $10.5 billion of consolidated recoverables were from rated reinsurers, of which 95% were rated A- or better by Standard & Poor's.
 
 
Classification of reinsurer balances excludes any consideration of related collateral or offsetting balances.
 
 
 
Reinsurance Recoverable for Active Operations
 
 
At December 31, 2002, $5.8 billion of the active operations' recoverables were from rated reinsurers, of which 95% were rated A- or better by Standard & Poor's. At December 31, 2002, the $8.8 billion gross balance includes government pools of $738 million and structured settlements with recourse of $367 million, both of which present very limited collectibility exposure. The Company held collateral of $2.1 billion, of which $1.6 billion was matched and usable against existing recoverables.
 
 
Classification of reinsurer balances exclude consideration of related collateral or offsetting balances.
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Asbestos and Environmental:
 
 
September 11, 2001 Tragedy information as of March 31, 2003:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Top 10 ExposuresFixed Income Investments and Single Name Credit Default Swaps
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulation GNon-GAAP Financial Measures
 
In presenting our operating results, we have included and discussed certain non-GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures, which may be defined differently by other companies, are important to an understanding of our overall results of operations; however, they should not be viewed as a substitute for measures determined in accordance with GAAP. Net operating income (loss) is a common performance measurement and is defined as net income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses) on investments, the tax effect of net realized gains (losses) on investments and the cumulative effect of adopting a new accounting standard, net of income tax. We believe this presentation of net operating income (loss) enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business.
 
We exclude net realized gains (losses) on investments from net operating income (loss) because the amount of these gains (losses) is heavily influenced by, and fluctuates in part, according to the availability of market opportunities. The cumulative effect of adopting a new accounting standard is excluded from our calculation of net operating income (loss). We believe these amounts are largely independent of our business and including them would distort the analysis of trends. Net operating income (loss) should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Book Value Per Share to Diluted Book Value Per Share
 
 
 
 


