FILE:ACE/ACE-8K-20040727195716.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On July 27, 2004, ACE Limited issued a press release reporting its second quarter 2004 results and the availability of its second quarter financial supplement. The press release and the financial supplement are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
 
In accordance with general instruction B.6 of Form 8-K, the information in this report, including exhibits, is furnished pursuant to Item 12 and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
DATE: July 27, 2004
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE) today reported net income for the second quarter ended June 30, 2004 of $413 million or $1.41 per share, compared with net income of $371 million or $1.32 per share for the same quarter last year. Income excluding net realized gains (losses) for the second quarter increased 33% to $380 million, or $1.29 per share, compared with $286 million or $1.01 per share for the same quarter of last year.(1)
HAMILTON, Bermuda, July 27, 2004
 
Evan Greenberg, President and Chief Executive Officer of ACE Limited, commented: "This was an excellent quarter. All of our business segments performed well, which is a reflection of the investments we have made to increase both our product capability and physical presence globally. In light of a softening market, I remain confident in our ability to perform given our underwriting discipline and the diversity of our business opportunities."
 
Other second quarter operating highlights were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 1/5
Financial results improved over the prior year's results for virtually every business segment. Further details are available in the financial supplement. Key items include:
 
 
 
 
 
On April 23, 2004, the Company completed the sale of 65.3 percent of its financial and mortgage guaranty reinsurance and insurance businesses through the initial public offering (IPO) of 49 million common shares of Assured Guaranty Ltd. at $18.00 per share. The Company received total proceeds of approximately $1.035 billion. This comprised $835 million of net offering proceeds and a return of capital of $200 million. This was a beneficial transaction for ACE as it enabled capital to be reallocated to higher growth, higher ROE businesses, and reduced its overall credit exposure. As a result of the transaction, the Company's book value declined by approximately $61 million, comprising an $18 million after tax loss and a $43 million reduction to other comprehensive income, representing a reclassification of previously unrealized investment gains to income.
 
Please refer to the ACE Financial Supplement June 30, 2004, which is posted on the Company's website, for more detailed information on individual segment performance, together with additional disclosure on reinsurance recoverable, loss reserves, loss on sale of Assured Guaranty, investment portfolio and capital structure. ACE's website reference (url) is . (Due to the length of this URL, it may be necessary to copy and paste this hyperlink into your Internet browser's URL address field.)
http://media.corporate-ir.net/media_files/nys/ace/reports/fin_supp_June_30_2004.xls
 
ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE) will host its second quarter 2004 earnings conference call and webcast on Wednesday, July 28, 2004 beginning at 8:30 a.m. EDT. The call is available via live and archived webcast at or by dialing 1-973-582-2745. Please refer to our website in the "Investor Information, Calendar of Events" for details. A replay of the call will be available until Monday, August 30, 2004. To listen to the replay, dial: 1-877-519-4471 (in the United States) or 1-973-341-3080 (international); passcode 4928961.
www.acelimited.com
 
The ACE Group of Companies is a global leader in insurance and reinsurance serving a diverse group of clients. A component of the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index, The ACE Group conducts its business on a worldwide basis with operating subsidiaries in approximately 50 countries. Additional information can be found at: .
www.acelimited.com
 
Page 2/6
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements:
 
Any forward-looking statements made in this press release reflect the Company's current views with respect to future events and financial performance and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those, set forth in these statements. For example, the Company's forward-looking statements could be affected by competition, pricing and policy term trends, the levels of new and renewal business achieved, market acceptance, changes in demand, the frequency of unpredictable catastrophic events, actual loss experience, uncertainties in the reserving or settlement process, new theories of liability, judicial and legislative developments, litigation tactics, the amount and timing of reinsurance recoverable, actual market developments, rating agency action, possible terrorism or the outbreak and effects of war and economic, political, regulatory, insurance and reinsurance business conditions, as well as management's response to these factors, and other factors identified in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
Page 3/6
 
 
 
Page 4/6
 
 
 
Ratios exclude life reinsurance business
 
Page 5/6
 
 
 
 
 
Page 6/6

Exhibit 99.2
 
Financial Supplement
 
June 30, 2004
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Sale of Assured Guaranty Ltd.
 
On April 28, 2004, the Company completed the sale of 65.3 percent of its financial and mortgage guaranty reinsurance and insurance businesses (transferred business) through the initial public offering (IPO) of 49 million common shares of Assured Guaranty Ltd. (Assured Guaranty) at $18.00 per share. Assured Guaranty was incorporated in Bermuda in August 2003 for the sole purpose of becoming a holding company for the transferred business.
 
Pursuant to the completion of the IPO on April 28, 2004, the Company received proceeds, net of related offering costs, of approximately $835 million. The transaction resulted in a pre-tax loss of $6.7 million, that reduces net realized gains in the consolidated income statement, and an after-tax loss of $18.1 million, which consists of the following:
 
 
A description of each component of the loss is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At March 31, 2004, $7.1 billion of the active operations' recoverables were from rated reinsurers, of which 86% were rated the equivalent of A- or better by nationally recognized rating agencies. The Company held collateral of $2.1 billion, of which $1.4 billion was matched and usable against existing recoverables.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
At March 31, 2004, $11.2 billion of consolidated recoverables were from rated reinsurers, of which 89% were rated the equivalent of A- or better by nationally recognized rating agencies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Investment portfolio
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulation G - Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
In presenting our results, we have included and discussed certain non-GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures, which may be defined differently by other companies, are important for an understanding of our overall results of operations; however, they should not be viewed as a substitute for measures determined in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of book value per share to diluted book value per ordinary share is provided on page 27. The following non-GAAP measure is a common performance measurement and is defined as income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses) on investments and the tax benefit (expense) on net realized gains (losses) on investments. We believe this presentation enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business.
 
We exclude net realized gains (losses) on investments because the amount of these gains (losses) is heavily influenced by, and fluctuates in part, according to the availability of market opportunities. We believe these amounts are largely independent of our business and including them would distort the analysis of trends. Income excluding net realized gains (losses) should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Book Value per Ordinary Share to Diluted Book Value per Ordinary Share
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses) less perpetual preferred securities and mezzanine equity dividends divided by average ordinary shareholders' equity for the period. To annualize a quarterly rate multiply by four.
Annualized return on ordinary shareholders' equity (ROE):
 
The sum of the loss and loss expense ratio, acquisition cost ratio and the administrative expense ratio for the property and casualty and financial services operations. Calculated on a GAAP basis.
Combined ratio:
 
Ordinary shareholders' equity and net proceeds from assumed conversions of outstanding in-the-money options divided by the sum of shares outstanding and the number of options assumed issued.
Diluted book value per ordinary share:
 
Ordinary shareholders' equity and net proceeds from assumed conversions of outstanding in-the-money options less goodwill divided by the sum of shares outstanding and the number of options assumed issued.
Diluted tangible book value per ordinary share:
 
Income tax expense divided by the sum of income tax expense and income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses).
Effective tax rate:
 
Unrealized gains (losses) on investments and the deferred tax component included in shareholders' equity.
FAS 115:
 
Net premium earned and net investment income less future policy benefits, acquisition costs and administrative expenses.
Life underwriting income:
 
Not meaningful.
NM:
 
Shareholders' equity less perpetual preferred shares.
Ordinary shareholders' equity:
 
Property and casualty.
P & C:
 
Loss and loss expense ratios, policy acquisition cost ratios and administrative expense ratios excluding life reinsurance business and financial services segment. Calculated on a GAAP basis.
Property and casualty combined ratios:
 
Income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses) less perpetual preferred securities and mezzanine equity dividends divided by average ordinary shareholders' equity.
Return on ordinary shareholders' equity (ROE):
 
Shareholders' equity less goodwill.
Tangible equity:
 
Short-term debt, long-term debt, trust preferreds, mezzanine equity, perpetual preferred shares and shareholders' equity.
Total capitalization:
 
Year to date.
YTD:
 


