FILE:ACE/ACE-8K-20040308153814.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Item 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On March 5, 2004, ACE Limited issued a press release reporting a subsequent event resulting in a 2003 realized gain and the availability of its fourth quarter financial supplement. The press release is attached hereto as exhibit 99.1, and is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
 
In accordance with general instruction B.6 of Form 8-K, the information in this report, including exhibits, is furnished pursuant to Item 12 and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
DATE: March 5, 2004
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
HAMILTON, Bermuda  March 5, 2004  ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE) reported today that subsequent to its February 4, 2004 year-end earnings release and before the filing of its Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company's Financial Guaranty subsidiary terminated with the original counterparty a derivative contract, that resulted in an after tax realized gain of approximately $23.0 million, or $0.08 per diluted share. ACE will change its Mark to Market adjustment for this derivative contract in its 2003 Financial Services segment and consolidated financial statements, since this subsequent event provided additional information concerning the fair valuation of this derivative at the end of 2003. As a result of this transaction, realized gains for the fourth quarter and for the year totaled $128.0 million and $252.0 million respectively. Net income for the fourth quarter and for the year totaled $444.0 million and $1,417.0 million respectively.
 
Please refer to the ACE Financial Supplement December 31, 2003, which is posted on the Company's website, for more detailed information on individual segment performance, together with additional disclosure on reinsurance recoverable, loss reserves, financial guaranty portfolio, investment portfolio and capital structure. ACE's website reference (url) is (Due to the length of this URL, it may be necessary to copy and paste this hyperlink into your Internet browser's URL address field.)
http://media.corporate-ir.net/media_files/nys/ace/reports/fin_supp_december_31_2003.xls.
 
The ACE Group of Companies is a global leader in insurance and reinsurance serving a diverse group of clients. A component of the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index, The ACE Group conducts its business on a worldwide basis with operating subsidiaries in approximately 50 countries. Additional information can be found at: .
www.acelimited.com
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
Consolidated Property and Casualty Excluding Financial Services
(1)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Insurance - North American
 
 
 
 
Insurance - Overseas General
 
 
 
Insurance - Overseas General
 
 
 
Global Reinsurance
 
 
 
Global Reinsurance - Property & Casualty
 
 
 
Financial Services
 
 
 
 
Financial Services
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note - Ratings are internally determined based on rating agency guidelines
 
 
Distribution by Ratings of Financial Guaranty Portfolio
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Largest Single Name Corporate CDS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Reinsurance Recoverable by Division
 
 
 
 
Note: Active operations include the run-off operations of CIS and certain other divisions.
 
 
Reinsurance Recoverable for Active Operations
 
 
At September 30, 2003, $6.7 billion of the active operations' recoverables were from rated reinsurers, of which 84% were rated the equivalent of A- or better by nationally recognized rating agencies. The Company held collateral of $2.3 billion, of which $1.5 billion was matched and usable against existing recoverables.
 
 
 
Consolidated Reinsurance Recoverable
 
 
At September 30, 2003, $11.3 billion of consolidated recoverables were from rated reinsurers, of which 88% were rated the equivalent of A- or better by nationally recognized rating agencies.
 
 
 
Detail on Reinsurance Recoverable on Paid Losses and Loss Expenses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Investment portfolio
 
Top 10 Exposures - Fixed Maturity Investments and Single Name Credit Default Swaps
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulation G - Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
In presenting our results, we have included and discussed certain non-GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures, which may be defined differently by other companies, are important for an understanding of our overall results of operations; however, they should not be viewed as a substitute for measures determined in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of book value per share to diluted book value per ordinary share is provided on page 33. The following non-GAAP measure is a common performance measurement and is defined as net income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses) on investments and the tax effect of net realized gains (losses) on investments. We believe this presentation enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business.
 
We exclude net realized gains (losses) on investments because the amount of these gains (losses) is heavily influenced by, and fluctuates in part, according to the availability of market opportunities. We believe these amounts are largely independent of our business and including them would distort the analysis of trends. Income excluding net realized gains (losses) should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Book Value per Ordinary Share to Diluted Book Value per Ordinary Share
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Reinsurance Recoverable
 
A significant amount of detail on a large portion of our reinsurance recoverables are disclosed in our US statutory annual reports. The following is a reconciliation of the amount reported in these reports to our total recoverable as of December 31, 2002 reported for GAAP purposes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses) less perpetual preferred and mezzanine equity dividend divided by average ordinary shareholders' equity for the period. To annualize a quarterly rate multiply by four.
Annualized return on ordinary shareholders' equity (ROE):
 
The sum of the loss and loss expense ratio, acquisition cost ratio and the administrative expense ratio for the property and casualty and financial services operations.
Combined ratio:
 
Ordinary shareholders' equity and net proceeds from assumed conversions of outstanding in-the-money options divided by the sum of shares outstanding and the number of options assumed issued.
Diluted book value per ordinary share:
 
Ordinary shareholders' equity and net proceeds from assumed conversions of outstanding in-the-money options less goodwill divided by the sum of shares outstanding and the number of options assumed issued.
Diluted tangible book value per ordinary share:
 
Income tax expense divided by the sum of income tax expense and income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses).
Effective tax rate:
 
Unrealized gains (losses) on investments and the deferred tax component included in shareholders' equity.
FAS 115:
 
Net premium earned and net investment income less future policy benefits, acquisition costs and administrative expenses.
Life underwriting income:
 
Not meaningful.
NM:
 
: Shareholders' equity less perpetual preferred shares.
Ordinary shareholders' equity
 
Loss and loss expense ratios, policy acquisition cost ratios and administrative expense ratios exclude life reinsurance business and financial services segment.
Property and casualty combined ratios:
 
Income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses) less perpetual preferred securities and mezzanine equity dividends divided by average ordinary shareholders' equity.
Return on ordinary shareholders' equity (ROE):
 
Shareholders' equity less goodwill.
Tangible equity:
 
Short-term debt, long-term debt, trust preferreds, mezzanine equity, perpetual preferred shares and shareholders' equity.
Total capitalization:
 


