FILE:ACE/ACE-8K-20041026191342.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On October 26, 2004, ACE Limited issued a press release reporting its third quarter 2004 results and the availability of its third quarter financial supplement. The press release and the financial supplement are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
DATE: October 26, 2004
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE) today reported a net loss for the third quarter ended September 30, 2004 of $3 million or $(0.05) per common share after payment of preferred dividends, compared with net income of $355 million or $1.22 per share for the same quarter last year. Income excluding net realized gains (losses) for the third quarter was $31 million, or $0.07 per share, compared with $304 million or $1.04 per share for the same quarter of last year.
HAMILTON, Bermuda, October 26, 2004
(1)
The catastrophe losses from hurricanes and typhoons resulted in an after-tax charge of $406 million for the quarter or $1.42 per share compared with after-tax net catastrophe losses of $35 million or $0.12 per share in the third quarter of 2003. The combined ratio was 105.2%. If catastrophe losses were excluded the combined ratio would be 88.1%, a 1.5 point improvement over the comparable quarter in 2003.
 
 
 
Net income for the first nine months of 2004 decreased 12 percent to $857 million or $2.88 per share, compared with $973 million or $3.46 per share in the first nine months of 2003. For the first nine months of
 
Page 1 of 7
2004, income excluding net realized gains decreased 5 percent to $822 million or $2.76 per share, compared with $869 million or $3.08 per share in the same period of 2003. After-tax net catastrophe losses for the first nine months of 2004 were $406 million or $1.42 per share, compared with $70 million or $0.25 per share in the same period of 2003. The combined ratio for the nine months was 93.8%. Excluding catastrophe losses the combined ratio would have been 87.9% for the period. Annualized return on equity for the nine month period was 12.2%.
(2)
 
 
 
Evan Greenberg, President and Chief Executive Officer of ACE Limited, commented: "Our income for the quarter was significantly impacted by an unprecedented series of large natural catastrophe events which overshadowed an otherwise strong quarter in terms of revenue, earnings and book value growth. Our claims organization and internal risk management systems were put to the test this quarter, and I am pleased to say that ACE came through with flying colors."
 
Other third quarter operating highlights were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Page 2/7
Financial results excluding catastrophe losses for the third quarter improved over the prior year's results for our P&C business segments. Further details are available in the financial supplement. Key items include:
 
 
 
 
 
Insurance industry investigation and related matters
 
ACE has received subpoenas from the office of the New York Attorney General (the "NYAG") in connection with an investigation of certain insurance industry practices. On October 14, 2004, the NYAG filed a civil suit against Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. alleging that certain Marsh business practices were fraudulent and violated antitrust and securities laws. ACE was not named as a defendant in the suit, although ACE was named as one of four insurance companies whose employees participated in the challenged practices. In addition, an underwriter in an ACE insurance subsidiary has pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor based on these practices. ACE is cooperating and will continue to cooperate with the NYAG.
 
ACE is conducting its own internal investigation into the subjects raised by the Attorney General. It is being conducted by a team from the firm of Debevoise and Plimpton. The team is headed by former United States Attorney Mary Jo White. The team reports to management and directly to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
 
ACE understands that several purported shareholder class action lawsuits have been filed against ACE and certain of its present and former executive officers relating to certain of the practices being investigated by the NYAG. To date, ACE has not been served in any of these actions.
 
While ACE is not a party to any action brought by the NYAG or any other governmental authority, there can be no assurance that ACE will not be named in future actions. ACE cannot at this time estimate its potential costs related to these matters and accordingly no liability is being established at this time. In the opinion of ACE's management, ACE's ultimate liability for these matters is not likely to have a material adverse effect on ACE's consolidated financial condition, although it is possible that the effect would be material to ACE's consolidated results of operations for an individual reporting period.
 
Please refer to the ACE Financial Supplement September 30, 2004, which is posted on the Company's website, for more detailed information on individual segment performance, together with additional disclosure on reinsurance recoverable, loss reserves, catastrophe loss charges by segment, investment portfolio and capital structure. ACE's website reference (url) is . (Due to the length of this URL, it may be necessary to copy and paste this hyperlink into your Internet browser's URL address field.)
http://media.corporate-ir.net/media_files/nys/ace/reports/fin_supp_september_30_2004.xls
 
ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE) will host its third quarter 2004 earnings conference call and webcast on Wednesday, October 27, 2004 beginning at 8:30 a.m. EDT. The call is available via live and archived webcast at . Please refer to our website in "Investor Information, Calendar of Events" for details.
www.acelimited.com
 
If you are unable to listen to the live webcast, a replay of the call will be available from approximately 11:30 a.m. EDT on Wednesday, October 27, 2004 until Tuesday, November 30, 2004. To listen to the replay, dial: 1-877-519-4471 (in the United States) or 1-973-341-3080 (international); passcode 5224481.
 
The ACE Group of Companies is a global leader in insurance and reinsurance serving a diverse group of clients. A component of the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index, The ACE Group conducts its business on a worldwide basis with operating subsidiaries in approximately 50 countries. Additional information can be found at: .
www.acelimited.com
 
Page 3/7
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements:
 
Any forward-looking statements made in this press release reflect the Company's current views with respect to future events and financial performance and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in these statements. For example, the Company's forward-looking statements could be affected by competition, pricing and policy term trends, the levels of new and renewal business achieved, market acceptance, changes in demand, the frequency of unpredictable catastrophic events, actual loss experience, uncertainties in the reserving or settlement process, new theories of liability, judicial and legislative developments, litigation tactics, the amount and timing of reinsurance recoverable, actual market developments, rating agency action, possible terrorism or the outbreak and effects of war and economic, political, regulatory, insurance and reinsurance business conditions, as well as management's response to these factors, and other factors identified in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
Page 4/7
 
 
Page5/7
 
 
Ratios exclude life reinsurance business
 
Page 6/7
 
 
 
Page 7/7

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(1) See page 29 Non-GAAP Financial Measures.
 
 
 
 
Insurance - Overseas General
 
 
 
Global Reinsurance
 
 
 
Global Reinsurance - Property & Casualty
 
 
 
 
Financial Services
 
 
 
Sale of Assured Guaranty Ltd.
 
On April 28, 2004, the Company completed the sale of 65.3 percent of its financial and mortgage guaranty reinsurance and insurance businesses (transferred business) through the initial public offering (IPO) of 49 million common shares of Assured Guaranty Ltd. (Assured Guaranty) at $18.00 per share. Assured Guaranty was incorporated in Bermuda in August 2003 for the sole purpose of becoming a holding company for the transferred business.
 
Pursuant to the completion of the IPO on April 28, 2004, the Company received proceeds, net of related offering costs, of approximately $835 million. The transaction resulted in a pre-tax loss of $6.7 million, that reduces net realized gains in the consolidated income statement, and an after-tax loss of $18.1 million, which consists of the following:
 
 
A description of each component of the loss is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Reinsurance Recoverable by Division
 
 
 
Reinsurance Recoverable for Active Operations
 
 
At June 30, 2004, $7.3 billion of the active operations' recoverables were from rated reinsurers, of which 84.0% were rated the equivalent of A- or better by nationally recognized rating agencies. The Company held collateral of $2.7 billion, of which $1.5 billion was matched and usable against existing recoverables.
 
 
 
Consolidated Reinsurance Recoverable
 
 
At June 30, 2004, $11.3 billion of consolidated recoverables were from rated reinsurers, of which 88% were rated the equivalent of A- or better by nationally recognized rating agencies.
 
 
 
Detail on Reinsurance Recoverable on Paid Losses and Loss Expenses
 
 
 
 
 
Investment portfolio
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulation G - Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
In presenting our results, we have included and discussed certain non-GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures, which may be defined differently by other companies, are important for an understanding of our overall results of operations; however, they should not be viewed as a substitute for measures determined in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of book value per share to diluted book value per ordinary share is provided on page 30.
 
In presenting our segment operating results we have shown our performance with reference to underwriting results. Underwriting results are calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, life and annuity benefits, policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting results and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including investment income, other income and expenses, interest and income tax expense and net realized gains (losses).
 
The following non-GAAP measure is a common performance measurement and is defined as income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses) on investments and the tax benefit (expense) on net realized gains (losses) on investments. We believe this presentation enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. We exclude net realized gains (losses) on investments because the amount of these gains (losses) is heavily influenced by, and fluctuates in part, according to the availability of market opportunities. We believe these amounts are largely independent of our business and including them would distort the analysis of trends. Income excluding net realized gains (losses) should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Book Value per Ordinary Share to Diluted Book Value per Ordinary Share
 
 
 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
 
 
 
Income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses) less perpetual preferred securities and mezzanine equity dividends divided by average ordinary shareholders' equity for the period. To annualize a quarterly rate multiply by four.
Annualized return on ordinary shareholders' equity (ROE):
 
The sum of the loss and loss expense ratio, acquisition cost ratio and the administrative expense ratio for the property and casualty and financial services operations. Calculated on a GAAP basis.
Combined ratio:
 
Ordinary shareholders' equity and net proceeds from assumed conversions of outstanding in-the-money options divided by the sum of shares outstanding and the number of options assumed issued.
Diluted book value per ordinary share:
 
Ordinary shareholders' equity and net proceeds from assumed conversions of outstanding in-the-money options less goodwill divided by the sum of shares outstanding and the number of options assumed issued.
Diluted tangible book value per ordinary share:
 
Income tax expense divided by the sum of income tax expense and income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses).
Effective tax rate:
 
Unrealized gains (losses) on investments and the deferred tax component included in shareholders' equity.
FAS 115:
 
Net premium earned and net investment income less future policy benefits, acquisition costs and administrative expenses.
Life underwriting income:
 
Not meaningful.
NM:
 
Shareholders' equity less perpetual preferred shares.
Ordinary shareholders' equity:
 
Property and casualty.
P & C:
 
Loss and loss expense ratios, policy acquisition cost ratios and administrative expense ratios excluding life reinsurance business and financial services segment. Calculated on a GAAP basis.
Property and casualty combined ratios:
 
Income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses) less perpetual preferred securities and mezzanine equity dividends divided by average ordinary shareholders' equity.
Return on ordinary shareholders' equity (ROE):
 
Shareholders' equity less goodwill.
Tangible equity:
 
Short-term debt, long-term debt, trust preferreds, mezzanine equity, perpetual preferred shares and shareholders' equity.
Total capitalization:
 
Year to date.
YTD:
 


