FILE:ACE/ACE-8K-20040204200233.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 4, 2004, ACE Limited issued a press release reporting its year-end, fourth quarter 2003 results and the availability of its fourth quarter financial supplement. The press release and the financial supplement are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
 
In accordance with general instruction B.6 of Form 8-K, the information in this report, including exhibits, is furnished pursuant to Item 12 and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or otherwise subject to the liability of that section.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
DATE: February 4, 2004
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE) today reported that net income for 2003 was a record $1.4 billion or $4.93 per share, compared with net income of $77 million or $0.19 per share for the prior year. Income excluding net realized gains (losses) on investments for 2003 was up 142% to a record $1.2 billion, or $4.21 per share, compared with $494 million or $1.74 per share for last year.
HAMILTON, Bermuda, February 4, 2004
(1)
The prior year included a charge of $354 million in the fourth quarter related to asbestos and environmental reserves.
 
For the quarter ended December 31, 2003, net income was $421 million or $1.45 per share, compared with a net loss of $168 million or $0.67 per share for the prior year. Income excluding net realized gains (losses) on investments for the fourth quarter of 2003 was a record $328 million, or $1.12 per share, compared with a loss of $99 million or $0.41 per share for the same quarter last year.
(1)
 
Brian Duperreault, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ACE Limited, commented: "The record results of 2003 reflect the significant earnings power that ACE has built up over the last three years. With annual net income substantially in excess of $1 billion, ACE has established a preeminent presence in the global property and casualty insurance industry. As we look ahead to 2004, we view our prospects for further growth with continued optimism."
 
Other 2003 operating highlights were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial results improved over the prior year's results for virtually every business segment. Further details are available in the financial supplement. Key items include:
 
 
 
 
 
As previously disclosed on December 2, 2003, ACE Limited intends to pursue an initial public offering of its financial guaranty business (ACE expects to offer approximately 65% to 75% of its interest in AGC Holdings Limited). The IPO is expected to be completed in the first half of 2004, subject to market conditions and receipt of various regulatory approvals.
 
Please refer to the ACE Financial Supplement December 31, 2003, which is posted on the Company's website, for more detailed information on individual segment performance, together with additional disclosure on reinsurance recoverable, loss reserves, financial guaranty portfolio, investment portfolio and capital structure. ACE's website reference (url) is . (Due to the length of this URL, it may be necessary to copy and paste this hyperlink into your Internet browser's URL address field.)
http://media.corporate-ir.net/media_files/nys/ace/reports/fin_supp_december_31_2003.xls
 
ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE) will host its year-end, fourth quarter earnings conference call and webcast on Thursday, February 5, 2004 beginning at 8:30 a.m. EST. The call is available via live and archived webcast at or by dialing 1-973-582-2745. Please refer to our website in the "Investor Information, Calendar of Events" for details. A replay of the call will be available from Thursday, February 5, 2004 until Thursday, February 19, 2004 at 5:00 p.m. EST. To listen to the replay, dial: 1-877-519-4471 (in the United States) or 1-973-341-3080 (international); passcode 4434407.
www.acelimited.com
 
The ACE Group of Companies is a global leader in insurance and reinsurance serving a diverse group of clients. A component of the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index, ACE Group conducts its business on a worldwide basis with operating subsidiaries in nearly 50 countries. Additional information can be found at: .
http://www.acelimited.com
 
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements:
 
Any forward-looking statements made in this press release reflect the Company's current views with respect to future events and financial performance and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those, set forth in these statements. For example, the Company's forward-looking statements could be affected by competition, pricing and policy term trends, the levels of new and renewal business achieved, market acceptance, changes in demand, the frequency of unpredictable catastrophic events, actual loss experience, uncertainties in the reserving or settlement process, new theories of liability, planned public offerings, judicial and legislative developments, litigation tactics, the amount and timing of reinsurance recoverable, actual market developments, rating agency action, possible terrorism or the outbreak and effects of war and economic, political, regulatory, insurance and reinsurance business conditions, as well as management's response to these factors, and other factors identified in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
Consolidated Property and Casualty Excluding Financial Services
(1)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Insurance - North American
 
 
 
 
Insurance - Overseas General
 
 
 
Insurance - Overseas General
 
 
 
Global Reinsurance
 
 
 
Global Reinsurance - Property & Casualty
 
 
 
Financial Services
 
 
 
 
Financial Services
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note - Ratings are internally determined based on rating agency guidelines
 
 
Distribution by Ratings of Financial Guaranty Portfolio
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Largest Single Name Corporate CDS
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Reinsurance Recoverable by Division
 
 
 
 
Note: Active operations include the run-off operations of CIS and certain other divisions.
 
 
Reinsurance Recoverable for Active Operations
 
 
At September 30, 2003, $6.7 billion of the active operations' recoverables were from rated reinsurers, of which 84% were rated the equivalent of A- or better by nationally recognized rating agencies. The Company held collateral of $2.3 billion, of which $1.5 billion was matched and usable against existing recoverables.
 
 
 
Consolidated Reinsurance Recoverable
 
 
At September 30, 2003, $11.3 billion of consolidated recoverables were from rated reinsurers, of which 88% were rated the equivalent of A- or better by nationally recognized rating agencies.
 
 
 
Detail on Reinsurance Recoverable on Paid Losses and Loss Expenses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Investment portfolio
 
Top 10 Exposures - Fixed Maturity Investments and Single Name Credit Default Swaps
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulation G - Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
In presenting our results, we have included and discussed certain non-GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures, which may be defined differently by other companies, are important for an understanding of our overall results of operations; however, they should not be viewed as a substitute for measures determined in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of book value per share to diluted book value per ordinary share is provided on page 33. The following non-GAAP measure is a common performance measurement and is defined as net income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses) on investments and the tax effect of net realized gains (losses) on investments. We believe this presentation enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business.
 
We exclude net realized gains (losses) on investments because the amount of these gains (losses) is heavily influenced by, and fluctuates in part, according to the availability of market opportunities. We believe these amounts are largely independent of our business and including them would distort the analysis of trends. Income excluding net realized gains (losses) should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Book Value per Ordinary Share to Diluted Book Value per Ordinary Share
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Reinsurance Recoverable
 
A significant amount of detail on a large portion of our reinsurance recoverables are disclosed in our US statutory annual reports. The following is a reconciliation of the amount reported in these reports to our total recoverable as of December 31, 2002 reported for GAAP purposes:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses) less perpetual preferred and mezzanine equity dividend divided by average ordinary shareholders' equity for the period. To annualize a quarterly rate multiply by four.
Annualized return on ordinary shareholders' equity (ROE):
 
The sum of the loss and loss expense ratio, acquisition cost ratio and the administrative expense ratio for the property and casualty and financial services operations.
Combined ratio:
 
Ordinary shareholders' equity and net proceeds from assumed conversions of outstanding in-the-money options divided by the sum of shares outstanding and the number of options assumed issued.
Diluted book value per ordinary share:
 
Ordinary shareholders' equity and net proceeds from assumed conversions of outstanding in-the-money options less goodwill divided by the sum of shares outstanding and the number of options assumed issued.
Diluted tangible book value per ordinary share:
 
Income tax expense divided by the sum of income tax expense and income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses).
Effective tax rate:
 
Unrealized gains (losses) on investments and the deferred tax component included in shareholders' equity.
FAS 115:
 
Net premium earned and net investment income less future policy benefits, acquisition costs and administrative expenses.
Life underwriting income:
 
Not meaningful.
NM:
 
: Shareholders' equity less perpetual preferred shares.
Ordinary shareholders' equity
 
Loss and loss expense ratios, policy acquisition cost ratios and administrative expense ratios exclude life reinsurance business and financial services segment.
Property and casualty combined ratios:
 
Income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses) less perpetual preferred securities and mezzanine equity dividends divided by average ordinary shareholders' equity.
Return on ordinary shareholders' equity (ROE):
 
Shareholders' equity less goodwill.
Tangible equity:
 
Short-term debt, long-term debt, trust preferreds, mezzanine equity, perpetual preferred shares and shareholders' equity.
Total capitalization:
 


