FILE:ACE/ACE-8K-20051025194240.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 25, 2005, ACE Limited issued a press release reporting its third quarter 2005 results and the availability of its third quarter financial supplement. The press release and the financial supplement are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
DATE: October 25, 2005
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE) today reported a net loss for the third quarter ended September 30, 2005 of $112 million or $(0.43) per common share after payment of preferred dividends, compared with net income of $4 million or $(0.03) per share for the same quarter last year. Income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses) for the third quarter was $(187) million, or $(0.70) per share, compared with $37 million or $0.09 per share for the same quarter a year ago.
HAMILTON, Bermuda  October 25, 2005
(1)
The losses from hurricanes Katrina, Rita and Dennis and other catastrophes resulted in an after-tax charge of $742 million for the quarter or $2.56 per share compared with after-tax net catastrophe losses of $406 million or $1.42 per share in the third quarter of 2004. The combined ratio was 116.5%. If catastrophe losses were excluded, the combined ratio would be 86.4%, a 0.6 point improvement over the comparable quarter in 2004.
 
Net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 was $792 million or $2.63 per share, compared with $875 million or $2.95 per share in the same period of 2004. For the nine months ended September 30, 2005, income excluding net realized gains was $711 million or $2.34 per share, compared with $840 million or $2.82 per share in the same period of 2004.
(1)
After-tax net catastrophe losses for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 were $742 million or $2.57 per share, compared with $406 million or $1.42 per share in the same period of 2004. The combined ratio for the nine months was 98.9%. Excluding catastrophe losses, the combined ratio would be 88.4% for the period. Annualized return on equity for the nine month period was 9.5%
(2)
.
 
 
 
Evan Greenberg, President and Chief Executive Officer of ACE Limited, commented:
 
"The third quarter was a difficult quarter for the insurance industry, and our company was no exception. We experienced a series of significant natural catastrophes including Hurricane Katrina, which alone produced the largest insured loss in history.
 
"Our results reflect the strength of our organization. Our catastrophe losses were within our tolerance level for events of this size given our capital base. Our revenue growth reflected our underwriting discipline in the face of a softening underwriting environment. Exclusive of Hurricanes Rita and Katrina, our earnings were excellent, with strong contributions from both underwriting and investment income.
 
"The successful offering of common shares in early October, which raised $1.5 billion of gross equity capital, signals our confidence in the future market environment, and we plan to move swiftly and deliberately to take advantage of the opportunities that we believe will emerge."
Third quarter operating highlights were as follows:
 
 
On October 4, 2005, the Company issued common stock of approximately $1.5 billion, which is not reflected in amounts above.
 
Details of our financial results, excluding the impact of catastrophe losses and related premiums for the third quarter, for our P&C business segments are available in the financial supplement. Key items include:
 
 
 
 
 
All amounts included herein for prior periods have been adjusted to reflect the previously reported restatements.
 
Please refer to the ACE Financial Supplement dated September 30, 2005, which is posted on the Company's website, for more detailed information on individual segment performance, together with additional disclosure on reinsurance recoverable, loss reserves, investment portfolio and capital structure. ACE's website reference (url) is . (Due to the length of this URL, it may be necessary to copy and paste this hyperlink into your Internet browser's URL address field.)
http://media.corporate-ir.net/media_files/nys/ace/reports/fin_supp_september_30_2005.xls
 
ACE will host its third quarter 2005 earnings conference call and webcast on Wednesday, October 26, 2005 beginning at 8:30 a.m. EDT. The earnings conference call will be available via live and archived webcast at www.acelimited.com or by dialing 888-889-5602 (within the United States) or 973-582-2734 (international), conference ID 6506897. Please refer to the ACE Limited website in the Investor Information section under Calendar of Events for details. A replay of the call will be available from Wednesday, October 26, 2005 until Friday, November 25, 2005. To listen to the replay dial 877-519-4471 (in the United States) or 973-341-3080 (international); passcode 6506897.
The ACE Group of Companies is a global leader in insurance and reinsurance serving a diverse group of clients. Headed by ACE Limited, a component of the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index, the ACE Group conducts its business on a worldwide basis with operating subsidiaries in more than 50 countries. Additional information can be found at: .
www.acelimited.com
 
1
Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
is a common performance measurement. We believe this presentation enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. We exclude net realized gains (losses) because the amount of these gains (losses) is heavily influenced by, and fluctuates in part according to, the availability of market opportunities.
Operating Income or Income excluding net realized gains (losses), net of tax
 
is a non-GAAP measure. We present income excluding net realized gains (losses) and catastrophe losses, net of tax because those losses are deemed to be significant for the third quarter and nine months of 2005. We believe this separate presentation is meaningful and useful for users of our financial information.
Income excluding net realized gains (losses) and catastrophe losses, net of tax
is calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, life and annuity benefits, policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting income and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including net investment income, other (income) expense, interest and income tax expense and net realized gains (losses). We believe the use of these measures enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business.
Underwriting income
is shareholders' equity less goodwill. See reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measure on page 26 in the financial supplement.
Tangible shareholders' equity
 
These measures should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
 
2
Calculated using income excluding net realized gains (losses).
3
Diluted book value per ordinary share is ordinary shareholders' equity and net proceeds from assumed conversions of outstanding in-the-money options divided by the sum of shares outstanding and the number of options assumed issued.
NM  not meaningful comparison
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements:
 
Any forward-looking statements made in this press release reflect the Company's current views with respect to future events and financial performance and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in these statements. For example, the Company's forward-looking statements could be affected by competition, pricing and policy term trends, the levels of new and renewal business achieved, market acceptance, changes in demand, the frequency of unpredictable catastrophic events, actual loss experience, uncertainties in the reserving or settlement process, new theories of liability, judicial, legislative, regulatory and other governmental developments, litigation tactics and developments, investigation developments, the amount and timing of reinsurance recoverable, credit developments among reinsurers, actual market developments, rating agency action, possible terrorism or the outbreak and effects of war and economic, political, regulatory, insurance and reinsurance business conditions, as well as management's response to these factors, and other factors identified in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ratios exclude life reinsurance business
 
 
 
 
* Includes both property and casualty reinsurance and life reinsurance
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Third Quarter Catastrophe Loss Charges - 2005
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Insurance - North American
 
 
 
 
Insurance - Overseas General
 
 
 
 
 
Global Reinsurance
 
 
 
 
 
Global Reinsurance - Property & Casualty
 
 
 
 
Financial Services
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Reinsurance Recoverable by Division
 
 
 
 
Reinsurance Recoverable for Active Operations
 
 
At June 30, 2005, $6.6 billion of the active operations' recoverables were from rated reinsurers, of which 94.4% were rated the equivalent of A- or better by internationally recognized rating agencies. The Company held collateral of $2.8 billion, of which $1.5 billion was matched and usable against existing recoverables.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Reinsurance Recoverable
 
 
At June 30, 2005, $11 billion of consolidated recoverables were from rated reinsurers, of which 94.1% were rated the equivalent of A- or better by internationally recognized rating agencies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detail on Reinsurance Recoverable on Paid Losses and Loss Expenses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulation G - Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
In presenting our results, we have included and discussed certain non-GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures, which may be defined differently by other companies, are important for an understanding of our overall results of operations; however, they should not be viewed as a substitute for measures determined in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of book value per share to diluted book value per ordinary share is provided on page 27.
 
In presenting our segment operating results we have shown our performance with reference to underwriting results. Underwriting results are calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, life and annuity benefits, policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting results and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including investment income, other income and expenses, interest and income tax expense and net realized gains (losses).
 
The following non-GAAP measure is a common performance measurement and is defined as income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses) and the tax expense on net realized gains (losses). We believe this presentation enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. We exclude net realized gains (losses) because the amount of these gains (losses) is heavily influenced by, and fluctuates in part, according to the availability of market opportunities. We believe these amounts are largely independent of our business and including them would distort the analysis of trends. Income excluding net realized gains (losses) should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
 
 
We also present income excluding net realized gains (losses) and catastrophe losses, net of tax because those losses are deemed to be significant for the third quarter and nine months of 2005. Catastrophes are not predictable and cause significant variability in periodic earnings. On page 11 we have presented net premium written, net premium earned, loss ratios, expense ratios and combined ratios excluding catastrophes as we believe this separate presentation is meaningful and useful for users of our financial information.
 
 
Reconciliation of Book Value per Ordinary Share to Diluted Book Value per Ordinary Share
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
 
 
 
Income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses) less perpetual preferred securities divided by average ordinary shareholders' equity for the period. To annualize a quarterly rate multiply by four.
Annualized return on ordinary shareholders' equity (ROE):
 
The sum of the loss and loss expense ratio, acquisition cost ratio and the administrative expense ratio for the property and casualty and financial services operations. Calculated on a GAAP basis.
Combined ratio:
 
Ordinary shareholders' equity and net proceeds from assumed conversions of outstanding in-the-money options divided by the sum of shares outstanding and the number of options assumed issued.
Diluted book value per ordinary share:
 
Ordinary shareholders' equity and net proceeds from assumed conversions of outstanding in-the-money options less goodwill divided by the sum of shares outstanding and the number of options assumed issued.
Diluted tangible book value per ordinary share:
 
Income tax expense divided by the sum of income tax expense and income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses).
Effective tax rate:
 
Unrealized gains (losses) on investments and the deferred tax component included in shareholders' equity.
FAS 115:
 
Net premium earned and net investment income less future policy benefits, acquisition costs and administrative expenses.
Life underwriting income:
 
Not meaningful.
NM:
 
Shareholders' equity less perpetual preferred shares.
Ordinary shareholders' equity:
 
Property and casualty.
P & C:
 
Loss and loss expense ratios, policy acquisition cost ratios and administrative expense ratios excluding life reinsurance business and financial services segment. Calculated on a GAAP basis.
Property and casualty combined ratios:
 
Income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses) less perpetual preferred securities divided by average ordinary shareholders' equity.
Return on ordinary shareholders' equity (ROE):
 
Shareholders' equity less goodwill.
Tangible equity:
 
Short-term debt, long-term debt, trust preferreds, perpetual preferred shares and shareholders' equity.
Total capitalization:
 
Year to date.
YTD:
 


