FILE:ACE/ACE-8K-20050202215958.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 2, 2005, ACE Limited issued a press release reporting its fourth quarter 2004 results and the availability of its fourth quarter financial supplement. The press release and the financial supplement are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
DATE: February 2, 2005
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
News
Release
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE) today reported net income for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2004 of $282 million or $0.94 per common share after payment of preferred dividends, compared with net income of $444 million or $1.53 per share for the same quarter last year. Income excluding net realized gains (losses) for the fourth quarter was $166 million, or $0.54 per share, compared with $328 million or $1.12 per share for the same quarter of last year.
HAMILTON, Bermuda, February 2, 2005
(1)
The asbestos, environmental and other run-off (A&E) losses resulted in an after-tax charge of $302 million for the quarter or $1.06 per share. The combined ratio for the quarter was 104.0%. Excluding A&E losses, the combined ratio would be 87.7%, a 4.2 point improvement over the comparable quarter in 2003.
(1)
 
 
 
Net income for the year decreased 20 percent to $1.1 billion or $3.83 per share, compared with $1.4 billion or $5.01 per share in 2003. For 2004, income excluding net realized gains (losses) decreased 17 percent to $1.0 billion or $3.30 per share, compared with $1.2 billion or $4.21 per share in 2003. Record industry catastrophe losses resulted in an after-tax net loss of $437 million or $1.53 per share, compared with $105 million or $0.38 per share in 2003. The combined ratio for the year was 96.6%.
 
 
 
 
Evan Greenberg, President and Chief Executive Officer of ACE Limited, commented: "The strength of our organization was demonstrated in 2004. Despite record natural catastrophes around the world, and a fourth quarter reserve charge to our run-off operations, we produced a combined ratio of 96.6%. Our P&C premium growth exceeded 20%, and our investment income and book value grew to record levels while we substantially added to our loss reserve position. We are entering 2005 with a strong balance sheet, and we are well positioned throughout the world to continue our growth in earnings and book value."
 
Other 2004 operating highlights were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Financial results by business segment follow. Further details are available in the financial supplement. Key items include:
 
 
 
 
 
Please refer to the ACE Financial Supplement December 31, 2004, which is posted on the Company's website, for more detailed information on individual segment performance, together with additional disclosure on reinsurance recoverable, loss reserves, catastrophe loss charges by segment, investment portfolio and capital structure. ACE's website reference (url) is (Due to the length of this URL, it may be necessary to copy and paste this hyperlink into your Internet browser's URL address field.)
http://media.corporate-ir.net/media_files/nys/ace/reports/fin_supp_december_31_2004.xls.
 
ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE) will host its fourth quarter year-end earnings conference call and webcast on Thursday, February 3, 2005 beginning at 8:30 a.m. EST. The call is available via live and archived webcast at . Please refer to our website in "Investor Information, Calendar of Events" for details.
www.acelimited.com
 
If you are unable to listen to the live webcast, a replay of the call will be available from approximately 11:30 a.m. EST on Thursday, February 3, 2005 until Thursday, March 3, 2005. To listen to the replay, dial: 1-877-519-4471 (in the United States) or 1-973-341-3080 (international); passcode 5527078.
 
The ACE Group of Companies is a global leader in insurance and reinsurance serving a diverse group of clients. A component of the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index, The ACE Group conducts its business on a worldwide basis with operating subsidiaries in approximately 50 countries. Additional information can be found at: .
www.acelimited.com
Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
1
and the tax effect of net realized gains (losses) is a common performance measurement. We believe this presentation enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. We exclude net realized gains (losses) because the amount of these gains (losses) is heavily influenced by, and fluctuates in part according to, the availability of market opportunities.
Income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses)
is calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, life and annuity benefits, policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting income and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including net investment income, other (income) expense, interest and income tax expense and net realized gains (losses). We believe the use of these measures enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business.
Underwriting income
is presented because those losses are deemed to be significant to the quarter and the year end. The separate presentation is useful to understand the impact of these factors on our financial results and how management evaluates the Company's financial performance.
Income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses), A&E and catastrophe losses
These measures should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
 
Calculated using income excluding net realized gains (losses).
2
 
Diluted book value per ordinary share is ordinary shareholders' equity and net proceeds from assumed conversions of outstanding in-the-money options divided by the sum of shares outstanding and the number of options assumed issued.
3
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements:
 
Any forward-looking statements made in this press release reflect the Company's current views with respect to future events and financial performance and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in these statements. For example, the Company's forward-looking statements could be affected by competition, pricing and policy term trends, the levels of new and renewal business achieved, market acceptance, changes in demand, the frequency of unpredictable catastrophic events, actual loss experience, uncertainties in the reserving or settlement process, new theories of liability, judicial, legislative and other governmental developments, litigation tactics, the amount and timing of reinsurance recoverable, actual market developments, rating agency action, possible terrorism or the outbreak and effects of war and economic, political, regulatory, insurance and reinsurance business conditions, as well as management's response to these factors, and other factors identified in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Ratios exclude life reinsurance business
 
 
 
 
* Includes both property and casualty reinsurance and life reinsurance
 

 
 
 
Investor Contact
 
Helen M. Wilson
Phone: (441) 299-9283
Fax: (441) 292-8675
email: investorrelations@ace.bm
 
This report is for informational purposes only. It should be read in conjuction with documents filed by ACE Limited with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q.
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements:
 
Any forward-looking statements made in this financial supplement reflect the Company's current views with respect to future events and financial performance and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties which may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in these statements. For example, the Company's forward-looking statements concerning exposures, reserves and recoverables could be affected by the frequency of unpredictable catastrophic events, actual loss experience which differs from the Company's assumptions, uncertainties in the reserving or settlement process, new theories of liability, judicial, legislative and other governmental developments, litigation tactics, and credit developments among reinsurers and the Company's forward-looking statements concerning taxes could be affected by changes in tax laws and regulations. Other factors that could affect forward-looking statements are identified in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, the Company's quarterly reports on Form 10-Q and in the Company's earnings press release, which are available on the Company's website.
 
Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Insurance - North American
 
 
 
 
Insurance - Overseas General
 
 
 
 
Global Reinsurance
 
 
 
 
Global Reinsurance - Property & Casualty
 
 
 
Financial Services
 
 
 
 
 
Sale of Assured Guaranty Ltd.
 
On April 28, 2004, the Company completed the sale of 65.3 percent of its financial and mortgage guaranty reinsurance and insurance businesses (transferred business) through the initial public offering (IPO) of 49 million common shares of Assured Guaranty Ltd. (Assured Guaranty) at $18.00 per share. Assured Guaranty was incorporated in Bermuda in August 2003 for the sole purpose of becoming a holding company for the transferred business.
 
Pursuant to the completion of the IPO on April 28, 2004, the Company received proceeds, net of related offering costs, of approximately $835 million. Also, in the fourth quarter of 2004 the Company accrued $5.4 million in realized gains on sale related to the 338(h)(10) tax election entered into with Assured Guaranty as part of the IPO transaction. The transaction resulted in a pre-tax loss of $1.3 million, that reduces net realized gains in the consolidated income statement, and an after-tax loss of $14.6 million, which consists of the following:
 
 
A description of each component of the loss is as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Reinsurance Recoverable by Division
 
 
 
 
 
 
Reinsurance Recoverable for Active Operations
 
 
At September 30, 2004, $7.2 billion of the active operations' recoverables were from rated reinsurers, of which 83.7% were rated the equivalent of A- or better by internationally recognized rating agencies. The Company held collateral of $2.6 billion, of which $1.6 billion was matched and usable against existing recoverables.
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Reinsurance Recoverable
 
 
At September 30, 2004, $11.0 billion of consolidated recoverables were from rated reinsurers, of which 87.7% were rated the equivalent of A- or better by internationally recognized rating agencies.
 
 
 
 
 
Detail on Reinsurance Recoverable on Paid Losses and Loss Expenses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Investment portfolio
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulation G - Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
In presenting our results, we have included and discussed certain non-GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures, which may be defined differently by other companies, are important for an understanding of our overall results of operations; however, they should not be viewed as a substitute for measures determined in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of book value per share to diluted book value per ordinary share is provided on page 27.
 
In presenting our segment operating results we have shown our performance with reference to underwriting results. Underwriting results are calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, life and annuity benefits, policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting results and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including investment income, other income and expenses, interest and income tax expense and net realized gains (losses).
 
The following non-GAAP measure is a common performance measurement and is defined as income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses) on investments and the tax benefit (expense) on net realized gains (losses) on investments. We believe this presentation enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. We exclude net realized gains (losses) on investments because the amount of these gains (losses) is heavily influenced by, and fluctuates in part, according to the availability of market opportunities. We believe these amounts are largely independent of our business and including them would distort the analysis of trends. Income excluding net realized gains (losses) should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Book Value per Ordinary Share to Diluted Book Value per Ordinary Share
 
 
 
 
 
Income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses) less perpetual preferred securities and mezzanine equity dividends divided by average ordinary shareholders' equity for the period. To annualize a quarterly rate multiply by four.
Annualized return on ordinary shareholders' equity (ROE):
 
The sum of the loss and loss expense ratio, acquisition cost ratio and the administrative expense ratio for the property and casualty and financial services operations. Calculated on a GAAP basis.
Combined ratio:
 
Ordinary shareholders' equity and net proceeds from assumed conversions of outstanding in-the-money options divided by the sum of shares outstanding and the number of options assumed issued.
Diluted book value per ordinary share:
 
Ordinary shareholders' equity and net proceeds from assumed conversions of outstanding in-the-money options less goodwill divided by the sum of shares outstanding and the number of options assumed issued.
Diluted tangible book value per ordinary share:
 
Income tax expense divided by the sum of income tax expense and income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses).
Effective tax rate:
 
Unrealized gains (losses) on investments and the deferred tax component included in shareholders' equity.
FAS 115:
 
Net premium earned and net investment income less future policy benefits, acquisition costs and administrative expenses.
Life underwriting income:
 
Not meaningful.
NM:
 
Shareholders' equity less perpetual preferred shares.
Ordinary shareholders' equity:
 
Property and casualty.
P & C:
 
Loss and loss expense ratios, policy acquisition cost ratios and administrative expense ratios excluding life reinsurance business and financial services segment. Calculated on a GAAP basis.
Property and casualty combined ratios:
 
Income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses) less perpetual preferred securities and mezzanine equity dividends divided by average ordinary shareholders' equity.
Return on ordinary shareholders' equity (ROE):
 
Shareholders' equity less goodwill.
Tangible equity:
 
Short-term debt, long-term debt, trust preferreds, mezzanine equity, perpetual preferred shares and shareholders' equity.
Total capitalization:
 
Year to date.
YTD:
 


