FILE:ACE/ACE-8K-20050617164537.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
ACE Limited issued a press release reporting that it had received a subpoena from the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York as part of an investigation into finite risk insurance products. A copy of the press release is attached as an exhibit to this Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
The following exhibits are filed as part of this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
DATE: June 17, 2005
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
HAMILTON, Bermuda, June 17, 2005 (BUSINESS WIRE)  ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE) today reported that it had received a subpoena from the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York as part of an investigation into finite risk insurance products. ACE understands that other insurance companies have received similar subpoenas. As previously disclosed by ACE, ACE has received subpoenas from the Securities and Exchange Commission and the New York Attorney General in connection with an investigation into these insurance products. ACE intends to comply with the subpoena.
 
The ACE Group of Companies is a global leader in insurance and reinsurance serving a diverse group of clients. Headed by ACE Limited, a component of the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index, The ACE Group conducts its business on a worldwide basis with operating subsidiaries in approximately 50 countries. Additional information can be found at: .
http://www.acelimited.com


