FILE:ACE/ACE-8K-20050921161229.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
A current report on Form 8-K was filed on July 25, 2005, containing the ACE Limited second quarter financial supplement. On September 21, 2005 ACE Limited revised its second quarter financial supplement to conform it to certain information contained in the restated financial statements included in ACE Limited's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2005 filed on August 12, 2005. This revised financial supplement, which replaces the one previously filed, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
DATE: September 21, 2005
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Insurance - North American
 
 
 
Insurance - North American
 
 
 
Insurance - Overseas General
 
 
 
Insurance - Overseas General
 
 
 
Global Reinsurance
 
 
 
Global Reinsurance
 
 
 
Global Reinsurance - Property & Casualty
 
 
 
Financial Services
 
 
 
Financial Services
 
 
 
 
 
Net Reinsurance Recoverable by Division
 
 
 
Reinsurance Recoverable for Active Operations
 
 
At March 31, 2005, $6.5 billion of the active operations' recoverables were from rated reinsurers, of which 93.7% were rated the equivalent of A- or better by internationally recognized rating agencies. The Company held collateral of $2.8 billion, of which $1.5 billion was matched and usable against existing recoverables.
 
 
 
Consolidated Reinsurance Recoverable
 
 
At March 31, 2005, $10.6 billion of consolidated recoverables were from rated reinsurers, of which 94.5% were rated the equivalent of A- or better by internationally recognized rating agencies.
 
 
 
Detail on Reinsurance Recoverable on Paid Losses and Loss Expenses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulation G - Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
In presenting our results, we have included and discussed certain non-GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures, which may be defined differently by other companies, are important for an understanding of our overall results of operations; however, they should not be viewed as a substitute for measures determined in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of book value per share to diluted book value per ordinary share is provided on page 28.
 
In presenting our segment operating results we have shown our performance with reference to underwriting results. Underwriting results are calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, life and annuity benefits, policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting results and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including investment income, other income and expenses, interest and income tax expense and net realized gains (losses).
 
The following non-GAAP measure is a common performance measurement and is defined as income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses) and the tax expense on net realized gains (losses). We believe this presentation enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. We exclude net realized gains (losses) because the amount of these gains (losses) is heavily influenced by, and fluctuates in part, according to the availability of market opportunities. We believe these amounts are largely independent of our business and including them would distort the analysis of trends. Income excluding net realized gains (losses) should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Book Value per Ordinary Share to Diluted Book Value per Ordinary Share
 
 
 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
 
 
 
Income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses) less perpetual preferred securities divided by average ordinary shareholders' equity for the period. To annualize a quarterly rate multiply by four.
Annualized return on ordinary shareholders' equity (ROE):
 
The sum of the loss and loss expense ratio, acquisition cost ratio and the administrative expense ratio for the property and casualty and financial services operations. Calculated on a GAAP basis.
Combined ratio:
 
Ordinary shareholders' equity and net proceeds from assumed conversions of outstanding in-the-money options divided by the sum of shares outstanding and the number of options assumed issued.
Diluted book value per ordinary share:
 
Ordinary shareholders' equity and net proceeds from assumed conversions of outstanding in-the-money options less goodwill divided by the sum of shares outstanding and the number of options assumed issued.
Diluted tangible book value per ordinary share:
 
Income tax expense divided by the sum of income tax expense and income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses).
Effective tax rate:
 
Unrealized gains (losses) on investments and the deferred tax component included in shareholders' equity.
FAS 115:
 
Net premium earned and net investment income less future policy benefits, acquisition costs and administrative expenses.
Life underwriting income:
 
Not meaningful.
NM:
 
Shareholders' equity less perpetual preferred shares.
Ordinary shareholders' equity:
 
Property and casualty.
P & C:
 
Loss and loss expense ratios, policy acquisition cost ratios and administrative expense ratios excluding life reinsurance business and financial services segment. Calculated on a GAAP basis.
Property and casualty combined ratios:
 
Income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses) less perpetual preferred securities divided by average ordinary shareholders' equity.
Return on ordinary shareholders' equity (ROE):
 
Shareholders' equity less goodwill.
Tangible equity:
 
Short-term debt, long-term debt, trust preferreds, perpetual preferred shares and shareholders' equity.
Total capitalization:
 
Year to date.
YTD:
 


