FILE:ACE/ACE-8K-20060426061629.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On April 25, 2006, ACE Limited issued a press release reporting its first quarter 2006 results and the availability of its first quarter financial supplement. The press release and the financial supplement are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
DATE: April 25, 2006
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE) today reported record net income for the first quarter ended March 31, 2006 of $489 million or $1.46 per common share after payment of preferred dividends, compared with net income of $437 million or $1.48 per share for the same quarter last year. These results include an $80 million pre-tax charge pertaining to the imminent settlement with certain governmental agencies of their investigations of various insurance industry business practices. Income excluding net realized gains (losses), investigation-related settlement charge and the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (cumulative effect), net of tax,
HAMILTON, Bermuda, April 25, 2006
(1)
for the first quarter was a record $543 million, or $1.63 per share, compared with $455 million or $1.54 per share for the same quarter of last year.
(2)
 
 
 
Page 1/7
 
Evan Greenberg, President and Chief Executive Officer of ACE Limited, commented: "We had an excellent quarter. All divisions of ACE performed well. Both operating and net income achieved record highs even after charges related to an investigation settlement. We anticipate revenue growth picking up in the second quarter. We are well-diversified, and while certain of our businesses are under growth pressure, we have growth opportunity in other areas of our business. The settlement that will be announced shortly will be a major step in achieving closure and finality to what has been a difficult two years for our company and the industry."
 
Other first quarter operating highlights were as follows:
 
 
Details of our financial results for our P&C business segments are available in the financial supplement. Key items include:
 
Page 2/7
 
 
 
 
 
Please refer to the ACE Financial Supplement March 31, 2006, which is posted on the Company's website, for more detailed information on individual segment performance, together with additional disclosure on reinsurance recoverable, loss reserves, investment portfolio and capital structure. ACE's website reference (url) is . (Due to the length of this URL, it may be necessary to copy and paste this hyperlink into your Internet browser's URL address field.)
http://media.corporate-ir.net/media_files/nys/ace/reports/fin_supp_march_31_2006.xls
 
ACE will host its first quarter 2006, quarter-end earnings conference call and webcast on Wednesday, April 26, 2006 beginning at 8:30 a.m. EDT. The earnings conference call will be available via live and archived webcast at or by dialing 800-811-7286 (within the United States) or 913-981-4902 (international); conference ID 8635348. Please refer to the ACE Limited website in the Investor Information section under Calendar of Events for details. A replay of the call will be available from approximately 11:30 a.m. EDT on Wednesday, April 26, 2006 until Friday, May 26, 2006. To listen to the replay, dial: 1-888-203-1112 (in the United States) or 1-719-457-0820 (international); passcode 8635348 (#).
www.acelimited.com
 
The ACE Group of Companies is a global leader in insurance and reinsurance serving a diverse group of clients. Headed by ACE Limited, a component of the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index, the ACE Group conducts its business on a worldwide basis with operating subsidiaries in more than 50 countries. Additional information can be found at: .
www.acelimited.com
1
The cumulative effect is a benefit resulting from the accrual of a forfeiture rate on the restricted stock as required under Financial Accounting Standard (FAS) 123R.
 
2
Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
is a common performance measurement. We believe this presentation enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. We exclude net realized gains (losses) because the amount of these gains (losses) is heavily influenced by, and fluctuates in part according to, the availability of market opportunities. We exclude the investigation-related settlement charge and the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle net of tax because these amounts result in a one-time adjustment to income.
Operating Income or Income excluding net realized gains (losses), investigation-related settlement charge and cumulative effect, net of tax
is calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, life and annuity benefits, policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting income and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including net investment income, other (income) expense, interest and income tax expense and net realized gains (losses). We believe the use of these measures enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business.
Underwriting income
is shareholders' equity less goodwill. See reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures on page 23 in the financial supplement.
Tangible shareholders' equity
These measures should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
 
3
Calculated using income excluding net realized gains (losses).
 
4
Book value per ordinary share is ordinary shareholders' equity divided by the shares outstanding.
 
Page 3/7
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements:
 
Any forward-looking statements made in this press release reflect the Company's current views with respect to future events and financial performance and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in these statements. For example, the Company's forward-looking statements could be affected by competition, pricing and policy term trends, the levels of new and renewal business achieved, market acceptance, changes in demand, the frequency of unpredictable catastrophic events, actual loss experience, uncertainties in the reserving or settlement process, new theories of liability, judicial, legislative, regulatory and other governmental developments, litigation tactics and developments, investigation developments and actual settlement terms, the amount and timing of reinsurance recoverable, credit developments among reinsurers, actual market developments, rating agency action, possible terrorism or the outbreak and effects of war and economic, political, regulatory, insurance and reinsurance business conditions, as well as management's response to these factors, and other factors identified in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
Page 4/7
 
Page 5/7
 
Ratios exclude life insurance and reinsurance business
 
Page 6/7
 
Page 7/7

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These amounts do not reflect the impact of the settlement. See page 1.
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
These amounts do not reflect the impact of the settlement. See page 1.
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
These amounts do not reflect the impact of the settlement. See page 1.
 
 
 
 
 
These amounts do not reflect the impact of the settlement. See page 1.
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
These amounts do not reflect the impact of the settlement. See page 1.
 
 
 
 
Insurance - North American
 
 
 
 
Insurance - Overseas General
 
 
 
 
Global Reinsurance
 
 
 
 
Global Reinsurance
 
 
 
Financial Services
 
 
 
 
Life Insurance and Reinsurance
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Reinsurance Recoverable by Division
 
 
 
Reinsurance Recoverable for Active Operations
 
 
At December 31, 2005, $7.6 billion of the active operations' recoverables were from rated reinsurers, of which 95.6% were rated the equivalent of A- or better by internationally recognized rating agencies. The Company held collateral of $2.7 billion, of which $1.6 billion was matched and usable against existing recoverables.
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Reinsurance Recoverable
 
 
At December 31, 2005, $12.1 billion of ACE Limited recoverables were from rated reinsurers, of which 94.7% were rated the equivalent of A- or better by internationally recognized rating agencies.
 
 
 
 
 
Detail on Reinsurance Recoverable on Paid Losses and Loss Expenses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
These amounts do not reflect the impact of the settlement. See page 1.
 
 
 
 
These amounts do not reflect the impact of the settlement. See page 1.
 
 
 
 
These amounts do not reflect the impact of the settlement. See page 1.
 
Regulation G - Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
In presenting our results, we have included and discussed certain non-GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures, which may be defined differently by other companies, are important for an understanding of our overall results of operations; however, they should not be viewed as a substitute for measures determined in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of book value per share is provided on page 24.
 
In presenting our segment operating results we have shown our performance with reference to underwriting results. Underwriting results are calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, life and annuity benefits, policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting results and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including investment income, other income and expenses, interest and income tax expense and net realized gains (losses).
 
The following non-GAAP measure is a common performance measurement and is defined as income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses), the tax expense (benefit) on net realized gains (losses) and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, net of tax. We believe this presentation enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. We exclude net realized gains (losses) because the amount of these gains (losses) is heavily influenced by, and fluctuates in part, according to the availability of market opportunities. We exclude the benefit of the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, net of tax, because this change resulted in a one time adjustment to income. We believe these amounts are largely independent of our business and including them would distort the analysis of trends. Income excluding net realized gains (losses) and cumulative effect should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
 
 
 
These amounts do not reflect the impact of the settlement. See page 1.
 
Reconciliation of Book Value per Ordinary Share
 
 
 
These amounts do not reflect the impact of the settlement. See page 1.
 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
 
 
 
Income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses) and cumulative effect less perpetual preferred securities divided by average ordinary shareholders' equity for the period. To annualize a quarterly rate multiply by four.
Annualized return on ordinary shareholders' equity (ROE):
 
Ordinary shareholders' equity divided by the shares outstanding.
Book value per ordinary share:
 
The sum of the loss and loss expense ratio, acquisition cost ratio and the administrative expense ratio for the property and casualty and financial services operations. Calculated on a GAAP basis.
Combined ratio:
 
The cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle is a benefit resulting from the accrual of a forfeiture rate on the restricted stock under Financial Accounting Standard 123R "Share-Based Payment".
Cumulative effect:
 
Income tax expense divided by the sum of income tax expense and income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses) and cumualtive effect.
Effective tax rate:
 
Unrealized gains (losses) on investments and the deferred tax component included in shareholders' equity.
FAS 115:
 
: Net premium earned and net investment income less future policy benefits, acquisition costs and administrative expenses.
Life underwriting income
 
Not meaningful.
NM:
 
Shareholders' equity less perpetual preferred shares.
Ordinary shareholders' equity:
 
Property and casualty.
P & C:
 
Loss and loss expense ratios, policy acquisition cost ratios and administrative expense ratios excluding life reinsurance business and financial services segment. Calculated on a GAAP basis.
Property and casualty combined ratios:
 
Income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses) and cumulative effect less perpetual preferred securities divided by average ordinary shareholders' equity.
Return on ordinary shareholders' equity (ROE):
 
Ordinary shareholders' equity less goodwill divided by the shares outstanding.
Tangible book value per ordinary share:
 
Shareholders' equity less goodwill.
Tangible equity:
 
Short-term debt, long-term debt, trust preferreds, perpetual preferred shares and shareholders' equity.
Total capitalization:
 
Year to date.
YTD:
 


