FILE:ACE/ACE-8K-20060725191711.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 25, 2006, ACE Limited issued a press release reporting its second quarter 2006 results and the availability of its second quarter financial supplement. The press release and the financial supplement are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: July 25, 2006
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE) today reported net income for the second quarter ended June 30, 2006 of $573 million or $1.72 per common share after payment of preferred dividends, compared with net income of $467 million or $1.58 per share for the same quarter last year. Income excluding net realized gains (losses) for the second quarter was $579 million, or $1.74 per share, compared with $443 million or $1.50 per share for the same quarter a year ago.
HAMILTON, Bermuda  July 25, 2006
(1)
 
Net income for the first six months of 2006 was $1,062 million or $3.18 per share, compared with $904 million or $3.06 per share for the first six months of 2005. For the first six months of 2006, income excluding net realized gains and cumulative effect was $1,056 million or $3.17 per share, compared with $898 million or $3.04 per share for the same period of 2005.
(1)
 
 
Evan Greenberg, President and Chief Executive Officer of ACE Limited, commented: "This was another excellent quarter for ACE, marked by both record net and operating income. The P&C combined ratio was 88%. Our premium growth in the quarter reflects current market conditions globally, which in all remain favorable but mixed. We have a broad geographic and product reach and take a balanced approach to our business  capitalizing on opportunities when they make economic sense and walking away from business when it does not. For six months, our annualized ROE was 18%, which reflects an efficient use of capital."
Second quarter operating highlights were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Details of our financial results for our P&C business segments are available in the financial supplement. Key items include:
 
 
 
 
 
The following is updated guidance for the full year 2006:
are expected to grow between 2% and 3% for the full year.
Property & Casualty net premiums earned
is expected to range between 88% and 90%. We expect to be at the high end of the range including the regulatory settlement of $80 million announced in the first quarter. This accounts for approximately seven-tenths of a percentage point on the combined ratio.
The Property & Casualty combined ratio
is expected to increase approximately 0 to 5% over prior year.
Financial Services operating income
is expected to range between $1.5 billion and $1.55 billion. The Company's expectation is based upon estimated positive operating cash flow of approximately $4.0 billion and an expected increase in average portfolio yield to approximately 5.1% over the course of the year.
Total investment income
is expected to be between 20% and 22%.
The effective tax rate
Please refer to the ACE Financial Supplement June 30, 2006, which is posted on the Company's website, for more detailed information on individual segment performance, together with additional disclosure on reinsurance recoverable, loss reserves, investment portfolio and capital structure. ACE's website reference (url) is
(Due to the length of this URL, it may be necessary to copy and paste this hyperlink into your Internet browser's URL address field.)
http://media.corporate-ir.net/media_files/nys/ace/reports/fin_supp_june 30_2006.xls.
ACE will host its second quarter 2006, quarter-end earnings conference call and webcast on Wednesday, July 26, 2006 beginning at 8:30 a.m. EDT. The earnings conference call will be available via live and archived webcast at or by dialing 800-289-0572 (within the United States) or 913-981-5543 (international); conference ID 4680900. Please refer to the ACE Limited website in the Investor Information section under Calendar of Events for details. A replay of the call will be available from approximately 11:30 a.m. EDT on Wednesday, July 26, 2006 until Friday, August 25, 2006. To listen to the replay, dial: 888-203-1112 (in the United States) or 719-457-0820 (international); passcode 4680900 (#).
www.acelimited.com
The ACE Group of Companies is a global leader in insurance and reinsurance serving a diverse group of clients. Headed by ACE Limited, a component of the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index, the ACE Group conducts its business on a worldwide basis with operating subsidiaries in more than 50 countries. Additional information can be found at: .
www.acelimited.com
is a common performance measurement for insurance companies. We believe this presentation enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. We exclude net realized gains (losses) because the amount of these gains (losses) is heavily influenced by, and fluctuates in part according to, the availability of market opportunities. We exclude the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle net of tax because this amount resulted in a one-time adjustment to income.
Operating Income or Income excluding net realized gains (losses) and cumulative effect, net of tax
is calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, life and annuity benefits, policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting income and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including net investment income, other (income) expense, interest and income tax expense and net realized gains (losses). We believe the use of these measures enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business.
Underwriting income
 
is shareholders' equity less goodwill. See reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures on page 23 in the financial supplement.
Tangible shareholders' equity
These measures should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
 
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements:
Any forward-looking statements made in this press release reflect the Company's current views with respect to future events and financial performance and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in these statements. For example, the Company's forward-looking statements, such as its updated guidance, could be affected by competition, pricing and policy term trends, the levels of new and renewal business achieved, market acceptance, changes in demand, the frequency of unpredictable catastrophic events, actual loss experience, uncertainties in the reserving or settlement process, new theories of liability, judicial, legislative, regulatory and other governmental developments, litigation tactics and developments, investigation developments and actual settlement terms, the amount and timing of reinsurance recoverable, credit developments among reinsurers, actual market developments, rating agency action, possible terrorism or the outbreak and effects of war and economic, political, regulatory, insurance and reinsurance business conditions, as well as management's response to these factors, and other factors identified in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
Ratios exclude life insurance and reinsurance business
 
 
 

E 99.2
XHIBIT
 
 
(1) See page 23 Non-GAAP Financial Measures.
* Calculated using income excluding net realized gains (losses) and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle (cumulative effect)
 
 
(1) Property and casualty excluding Financial Services and Life is presented to allow for comparison and analysis with earnings guidance. This is a non-GAAP measure.
(2) See page 23 Non-GAAP Financial Measures.
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
Property and Casualty
(1)
 
(1) Property and casualty excluding Financial Services and Life is presented to allow for comparison and analysis with earnings guidance. See Financial Services schedule for details related to that segment.
(2) See Financial Services schedule for prior period development related to that segment.
 
 
(1) See page 23 Non-GAAP Financial Measures.
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
(1) See page 23 Non-GAAP Financial Measures.
 
 
(1) See page 23 Non-GAAP Financial Measures.
 
Insurance - North American
 
(1) See page 23 Non-GAAP Financial Measures.
 
Insurance - Overseas General
 
(1) See page 23 Non-GAAP Financial Measures.
 
Global Reinsurance
 
(1) See page 23 Non-GAAP Financial Measures.
 
Global Reinsurance
 
Global Reinsurance - By Division
 
 
Financial Services
 
(1) See page 23 Non-GAAP Financial Measures.
 
Life Insurance and Reinsurance
 
(1) We assess the performance of our Life Insurance and Reinsurance business based on life underwriting income which includes net investment income.
(2) See page 23 Non-GAAP Financial Measures.
 
 
(1) The run-off reserves primarily include the Brandywine group, the Commercial Insurance Service - Middle Market Worker's Comp. reserves and the pre-1997 Westchester Specialty reserves.
 
Net Reinsurance Recoverable by Division
 
 
Reinsurance Recoverable for Active Operations
 
At March 31, 2006, $8 billion of the active operations' recoverables were from rated reinsurers, of which 95.2% were rated the equivalent of A- or better by internationally recognized rating agencies. The Company held collateral of $2.9 billion, of which $1.6 billion was matched and usable against existing recoverables.
 
Other includes amounts recoverable that are in dispute, or are from companies who are in supervision, rehabilitation or liquidation. Our estimate of provision for uncollectible reinsurance associated with Other considers the credit quality of the reinsurer, and whether we have received collateral or other credit protections such as parental guarantees.
(1)
Excludes recoverable amounts from companies who are in supervision, rehabilitation or liquidation, or are captive reinsurers, mandatory pools or voluntary pools.
(2)
 
Consolidated Reinsurance Recoverable
 
At March 31, 2006, $12.4 billion of ACE Limited recoverables were from rated reinsurers, of which 94.5% were rated the equivalent of A- or better by internationally recognized rating agencies.
 
Other includes amounts recoverable that are in dispute, or are from companies who are in supervision, rehabilitation or liquidation. Our estimate of provision for uncollectible reinsurance associated with Other considers the credit quality of the reinsurer, and whether we have received collateral or other credit protections such as parental guarantees.
(1)
Excludes recoverable amounts from companies who are in supervision, rehabilitation or liquidation, or are captive reinsurers, mandatory pools or voluntary pools.
(2)
 
Detail on Reinsurance Recoverable on Paid Losses and Loss Expenses
 
General collections balances represent amounts in process of collection in the normal course of business, for which we have no indication of dispute or credit issues.
(1)
Other includes amounts recoverable that are in dispute, or are from companies who are in supervision, rehabilitation or liquidation for Brandywine Group and active operations. Our estimation of the reserve for other, considers the merits of the underlying matter, the credit quality of the reinsurer, and whether we have received collateral or other credit protections such as parental guarantees.
(2)
The current quarter split between general collections and other is estimated based on prior quarter balances. Balances are adjusted to actual in the next quarter.
(3)
 
 
 
 
(2) The quarter includes impairments of $4M for fixed maturities and $1M for equities. Year to date includes impairments of $24M for fixed maturities and $2M for equities.
 
 
(1) Tangible equity is equal to shareholders' equity less goodwill.
 
 
(1) See page 23 Non-GAAP Financial Measures.
 
Regulation G - Non-GAAP Financial Measures
In presenting our results, we have included and discussed certain non-GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures, which may be defined differently by other companies, are important for an understanding of our overall results of operations; however, they should not be viewed as a substitute for measures determined in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of book value per share is provided on page 24.
In presenting our segment operating results we have shown our performance with reference to underwriting results. Underwriting results are calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, life and annuity benefits, policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting results and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including investment income, other income and expenses, interest and income tax expense and net realized gains (losses).
The following non-GAAP measure is a common performance measurement and is defined as income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses), the tax expense (benefit) on net realized gains (losses) and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, net of tax. We believe this presentation enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. We exclude net realized gains (losses) because the amount of these gains (losses) is heavily influenced by, and fluctuates in part, according to the availability of market opportunities. We exclude the benefit of the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, net of tax, because this benefit resulted in a one time adjustment to income. We believe these amounts are largely independent of our business and including them would distort the analysis of trends. Income excluding net realized gains (losses) and cumulative effect should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
 
 
Reconciliation of Book Value per Ordinary Share
 
 
 
 
Income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses) and cumulative effect less perpetual preferred securities divided by average ordinary shareholders' equity for the period. To annualize a quarterly rate multiply by four.
Annualized return on ordinary shareholders' equity (ROE):
Ordinary shareholders' equity divided by the shares outstanding.
Book value per ordinary share:
The sum of the loss and loss expense ratio, acquisition cost ratio and the administrative expense ratio for the property and casualty and financial services operations. Calculated on a GAAP basis.
Combined ratio:
The cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle is a benefit resulting from the accrual of a forfeiture rate on the restricted stock under Financial Accounting Standard 123R "Share-Based Payment".
Cumulative effect:
Income tax expense divided by the sum of income tax expense and income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses) and cumualtive effect.
Effective tax rate:
Unrealized gains (losses) on investments and the deferred tax component included in shareholders' equity.
FAS 115:
Net premium earned and net investment income less future policy benefits, acquisition costs and administrative expenses.
Life underwriting income:
Not meaningful.
NM:
Shareholders' equity less perpetual preferred shares.
Ordinary shareholders' equity:
Property and casualty.
P & C:
Loss and loss expense ratios, policy acquisition cost ratios and administrative expense ratios excluding life reinsurance business and financial services segment. Calculated on a GAAP basis.
Property and casualty combined ratios:
Income (loss) excluding net realized gains (losses) and cumulative effect less perpetual preferred securities divided by average ordinary shareholders' equity.
Return on ordinary shareholders' equity (ROE):
Ordinary shareholders' equity less goodwill divided by the shares outstanding.
Tangible book value per ordinary share:
Shareholders' equity less goodwill.
Tangible equity:
Short-term debt, long-term debt, trust preferreds, perpetual preferred shares and shareholders' equity.
Total capitalization:
Year to date.
YTD:
 


