FILE:ACE/ACE-8K-20060925114850.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to the Registrant's Code of Ethics, or Waiver of a Provision of the Code of Ethics
UNITED STATES  
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions ( General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
On September 22, 2006, the Company amended and restated its code of conduct for release on September 25, 2006. The revised code of conduct integrated into the code of conduct, and in some cases expanded, a number of policies (such as policies regarding substance abuse, anti-competitive laws, business gifts and entertainment, and electronic communications and data security) that previously were handled by separate policy statements, which were referenced but not included in the prior version of the code of conduct. The amendments to the code of conduct also expanded and clarified some of the policies covered in the prior version of the code of conduct (such as policies relating to conflicts of interest, restrictions in trading in the Company's securities and equal employment matters). And, the amendments added new topics to the code of conduct (such as prevention of money laundering). In addition, certain technical, administrative and other non-substantive amendments have been made. For example, case studies have been provided to illustrate some of the policies. While certain amendments relate to elements of the "code of ethics" definition under Securities and Exchange Commission regulations, the Company has not amended the substantive nature of those elements as they appeared in the code of conduct prior to the amendments. A copy of amended and restated code of conduct has been posted on the Company's website, and can be accessed by clicking on "Investor Information," followed by "Corporate Governance" and the relevant button under the Corporate Governance listing.
www.acelimited.com
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 


