FILE:ACE/ACE-8K-20070815133213.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02    Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
(d) The Company appointed Leo Mullin as a director of the Company, effective August 14, 2007, to hold office until the next annual meeting of shareholders of the Company. There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Mullin and any other person pursuant to which he has been selected as a director.
 
Mr. Mullin has been appointed to the Audit Committee and Finance & Investment Committee of the Board of Directors.
 
The Company is entering into an indemnification agreement with Mr. Mullin in the form it has used for other directors and executive officers.
 
A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Mullin's appointment is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
DATE: August 15, 2007
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 August 14, 2007  ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE) announced today that Leo F. Mullin has been elected to its Board of Directors, effective immediately.
HAMILTON, Bermuda
 
Between 1997 and 2004 Mr. Mullin was associated with Delta Air Lines where he was separately and concurrently Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. From 1995 to 1997 Mr. Mullin held the position of Vice Chairman of Unicom Corporation. Previously, Mr. Mullin served as President and Chief Operating Officer of First National Bank of Chicago and he has held senior positions with Consolidated Rail Corp. and McKinsey & Company. Since 2004, Mr. Mullin has served on a part time basis as a senior advisor to Goldman Sachs Capital Partners.
 
Mr. Mullin also currently serves as a director of Johnson & Johnson.
 
Evan Greenberg, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ACE Limited, stated: "We are honored to welcome Leo Mullin to the Board of Directors of ACE. Leo has a broad and impressive record of accomplishment in the banking, transportation and energy industries. I'm confident given his deep knowledge and experience that Leo will make a significant contribution toward the governance of ACE."
 
The ACE Group of Companies is a global leader in insurance and reinsurance serving a diverse group of clients. Headed by ACE Limited, a component of the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index, the ACE Group of Companies conducts its business on a worldwide basis with operating subsidiaries in more than 50 countries. Additional information can be found at: .
www.acelimited.com
 
 
 
 


