FILE:ACE/ACE-8K-20081217170026.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) At the company's 2008 annual general meeting, the company's shareholders approved payments of a dividend in the form of a par value reduction equal to CHF 0.90 in the aggregate (equivalent at the time to US$0.87), to be paid in three equal quarterly installments (each equivalent at the time to US$0.29), as further described in the company's proxy statement/prospectus dated May 30, 2008. To accomplish this par value reduction for the fourth quarter of 2008, the company adjusted its Articles of Association on December 16, 2008 to reflect the number of shares issued out of conditional share capital since September 30, 2008 and on December 17, 2008 to confirm the par value reduction. The company's amended and restated Articles of Association became effective upon their filing with the commercial register of the Canton of Zurich, Switzerland on December 17, 2008 and as a result, the company's par value is now CHF 33.14 per share. Accordingly, the dividend will be paid to the company's shareholders of record at the close of business on December 17, 2008, as anticipated. A copy of the amended and restated Articles of Association is attached hereto as Exhibit 3 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The company confirms that it does not have any investments in any funds managed by Bernard L. Madoff Investment Securities LLC.
 
Prior to the company's redomestication from the Cayman Islands to Switzerland it registered Ordinary Shares on Form S-8 pursuant to the plan set forth below. As a result of the company's redomestication, the shares registered by such registration statements are now Common Shares of a Swiss company. An opinion as to legality of the shares so registered under Swiss law is attached as Exhibit 5 hereto.
 
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 5
ACE Limited
Brengasse 8
CH-8001 Zurich
Switzerland
December 17, 2008
ACE Limited (the "Company") - Form S-8 Registration Statements regarding the ACE Limited Employee Stock Purchase Plan
Dear Sirs,
We have been asked to render this opinion in our capacity as Swiss counsel to the Company in connection with Registration Statements No. 333-1404 and No. 333-134504 on Form S-8 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended filed with the United States Security Commission relating to the ACE Limited Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "") prior to the transfer of domicile of the Company to Switzerland the reincorporation of the Company as Swiss company.
Stock Purchase Plan
 
For the purpose of this opinion we have reviewed and relied on copies of the following documents:
 
 
 
The opinions given in this opinion relate only to the laws of Switzerland as in force at the date hereof. We express no opinion on the laws of any other jurisdiction. The opinions given in this opinion are strictly limited to the matters stated in section III and do not extend to any other matters.
The opinions given herein are made on the basis of the following assumptions:
 
 
 
 
 
Based upon the foregoing, in reliance thereon, and subject to the limitations and assumptions referred to above (II) and the qualifications set out below (IV), we are of the following opinion:
 
 
 
This opinion is subject to the following qualifications:
 
 
 
 
This legal opinion is rendered solely to the persons to whom it is addressed and for the purpose of the transaction herein referred to. It may not be used, circulated, quoted, referred to or relied upon by any person other than the persons to whom it is addressed nor for any other purpose without our written consent in each instance. We hereby consent to the filing of this legal opinion as an exhibit to the Registration Statement. In giving this consent, we do not hereby admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act or the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder. This legal opinion is strictly limited to the matters stated in it and does not apply by implication to other matters.
 


