FILE:ACE/ACE-8K-20080729184636.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 29, 2008, ACE Limited issued a press release reporting its second quarter 2008 results and the availability of its second quarter financial supplement. The press release and the financial supplement are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
DATE: July 29, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE) today reported net income for the second quarter ended June 30, 2008, of $2.20 per common share after payment of preferred dividends, compared with $1.93 per share for the same quarter last year. Income excluding net realized gains (losses) for the second quarter was $2.18 per share, compared with $1.98 per share for the same quarter of last year.
ZURICH, Switzerland  July 29, 2008
(1)
The quarter was marked by financial market volatility in both the credit and equity markets, which impacted net income and book value. The net realized and unrealized loss after tax was $524 million for the quarter. This loss is the result of market pricing changes only. Actual credit-related impairments included in this number were insignificant, at approximately $28 million. Book value increased $149 million for the quarter excluding the redemption of preferred shares, and the annualized return on average equity was 17.8%.
(2)
The results for the quarter reflect the acquisition of Combined Insurance Company of America and certain of its subsidiaries (Combined Insurance) effective April 1, 2008.
 
Net income for the first six months of 2008 was $3.31 per share, compared with $4.02 per share for the first six months of 2007. For the first six months of 2008, income excluding net realized gains (losses) was $4.33 per share, compared with $3.95 per share for the same period of 2007.
(1) 
Book value increased $207 million for the first six months excluding the redemption of preferred shares. The results for the first six months reflect the acquisition of Combined Insurance effective April 1, 2008.
 
Evan Greenberg, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ACE Limited, commented: "It was a record quarter for ACE, with after-tax operating income increasing 11% to $738 million. All divisions of the company performed well and contributed to a return on equity of almost 18%. Additionally, our revenue and earnings benefited from the consolidation of Combined Insurance. Global insurance market conditions are soft and will remain so for the foreseeable future, as will the difficult financial and economic conditions. Nonetheless, I remain confident in our ability to produce superior results. We are well positioned for the future."
Other operating highlights were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Details of our financial results for our business segments are available in the ACE Limited Financial Supplement. Key segment items include:
 
 
 
 
Please refer to the ACE Limited Financial Supplement dated June 30, 2008, which is posted on the company's website in the Investor Information section, and access Financial Reports for more detailed information on individual segment performance, together with additional disclosure on reinsurance recoverable, loss reserves, investment portfolio and capital structure. The URL reference is:
http://media.corporate-ir.net/media_files/irol/10/100907/fin_supp_june_30_2008.xls
. (Due to the length of this URL, it may be necessary to copy and paste this hyperlink into your Internet browser's URL address field.)
ACE will host its second quarter earnings conference call and webcast on Wednesday, July 30, 2008, beginning at 8:30 a.m. ET. The earnings conference call will be available via live and archived webcast at or by dialing 888-797-3006 (within the United States) or 913-312-0969 (international); passcode 4049134. Please refer to the ACE Limited website in the Investor Information section under Calendar of Events for details. A replay of the call will be available for approximately one month. To listen to the replay, dial: 888-203-1112 (in the United States) or 719-457-0820 (international); passcode 4049134.
www.acelimited.com
The ACE Group of Companies is a global leader in insurance and reinsurance serving a diverse group of clients. Headed by ACE Limited, the ACE Group of Companies conducts its business on a worldwide basis with operating subsidiaries in more than 50 countries. Additional information can be found at: www.acelimited.com.
 
is a common performance measurement for insurance companies. We believe this presentation enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. We exclude net realized gains (losses) and net realized gains (losses) included in Other (income) expense related to partially-owned insurance companies because the amount of these gains (losses) is heavily influenced by, and fluctuates in part according to, the availability of market opportunities.
Operating Income or Income excluding net realized gains (losses), net of tax
is calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, life and annuity benefits, policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting income and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including net investment income, other (income) expense, interest and income tax expense and net
Underwriting income
 
realized gains (losses). We believe the use of these measures enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business.
is shareholders' equity less goodwill. See reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures beginning on page 21 in the financial supplement.
Tangible shareholders' equity
These measures should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
 
 
:
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Forward-looking statements made in this press release, such as those related to economic conditions, company performance, reserves and valuations, and integration of ACE's recent acquisitions, reflect the company's current views with respect to future events and financial performance and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in these statements. For example, the company's forward-looking statements could be affected by competition, pricing and policy term trends, the levels of new and renewal business achieved, market acceptance, changes in demand, the frequency of unpredictable catastrophic events, actual loss experience, uncertainties in the reserving or settlement process, integration activities and unexpected financial or operational performance with respect to acquired companies, unexpected effects or difficulties relating to the company's recent re-domestication to Switzerland, new theories of liability, judicial, legislative, regulatory and other governmental developments, litigation tactics and developments, investigation developments and actual settlement terms, the amount and timing of reinsurance recoverable, credit developments among reinsurers, actual market developments, rating agency action, possible terrorism or the outbreak and effects of war and economic, political, regulatory, insurance and reinsurance business conditions, as well as management's response to these factors, and other factors identified in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Insurance - North American
 
 
 
 
 
Insurance - Overseas General
 
 
 
 
 
Global Reinsurance
 
 
 
 
Life Insurance and Reinsurance
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Reinsurance Recoverable by Division
 
 
 
Consolidated Reinsurance Recoverable
 
 
At March 31, 2008, $10.2 billion of ACE Limited recoverables were from rated reinsurers, of which 95.2% were rated the equivalent of A- or better by internationally recognized rating agencies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detail on Reinsurance Recoverable on Paid Losses and Loss Expenses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage-backed and Asset-backed Fixed Income Portfolio
Market Value at June 30, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage-backed and Asset-backed Fixed Income Portfolio
Book Value at June 30, 2008
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulation G - Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
In presenting our results, we have included and discussed certain non-GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures, which may be defined differently by other companies, are important for an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, they should not be viewed as a substitute for measures determined in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of book value per share is provided on page 22.
 
In presenting our segment operating results, we have shown our performance with reference to underwriting results. Underwriting results are calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, future policy benefits, policy acquisition costs, and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting results and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including investment income, other income and expenses, interest and income tax expense, and net realized gains (losses).
 
The following non-GAAP measure is a common performance measurement and is defined as income excluding net realized gains (losses) and the related tax expense (benefit). We believe this presentation enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. We exclude net realized gains (losses) and net realized gains (losses) included in other income (expense) related to partially owned insurance companies because the amount of these gains (losses) is heavily influenced by, and fluctuates in part according to, the availability of market opportunities. Income excluding net realized gains (losses) should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Book Value per Common Share
 
 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
 
 
Income excluding net realized gains (losses) less perpetual preferred securities divided by average common shareholders' equity for the period. To annualize a quarterly rate multiply by four.
Annualized return on ordinary shareholders' equity (ROE):
 
Common shareholders' equity divided by the shares outstanding.
Book value per common share:
 
Combined Insurance Company of America, aquired April 1, 2008.
Combined Insurance:
 
The sum of the loss and loss expense ratio, acquisition cost ratio and the administrative expense ratio excluding life business. Calculated on a GAAP basis.
Combined ratio:
 
Income tax expense divided by the sum of income tax expense and income excluding net realized gains (losses).
Effective tax rate:
 
Unrealized gains (losses) on investments and the deferred tax component included in shareholders' equity.
FAS 115:
 
Net premium earned and net investment income less future policy benefits, acquisition costs and administrative expenses.
Life underwriting income:
 
Not meaningful.
NM:
 
Shareholders' equity less perpetual preferred shares.
Common shareholders' equity:
 
Common shareholders' equity less goodwill and other intangible assets divided by the shares outstanding.
Tangible book value per common share:
 
Shareholders' equity less goodwill and other intangible assets.
Tangible equity:
 
Short-term debt, long-term debt, trust preferreds, perpetual preferred shares and shareholders' equity.
Total capitalization:
 


