FILE:ACE/ACE-8K-20081028183338.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 28, 2008, ACE Limited issued a press release reporting its third quarter 2008 results and the availability of its third quarter financial supplement. The press release and the financial supplement are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
DATE: October 28, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE) today reported net income for the third quarter ended September 30, 2008, of $0.16 per share, compared with $1.95 per share for the same quarter last year. Income excluding net realized gains (losses) for the third quarter was $1.51 per share, compared with $2.06 per share for the same quarter of last year.
ZURICH, Switzerland  October 28, 2008
(1)
The quarter was marked by financial market volatility in both the credit and equity markets, which impacted net income and book value. The net realized and unrealized loss after tax was $1.3 billion during the quarter. Book value decreased $971 million for the quarter and the annualized return on average equity was 12.7%.
(2)
The combined ratio was 97.9%.
 
Net income for the first nine months of 2008 was $3.46 per share, compared with $5.98 per share for the first nine months of 2007. For the first nine months of 2008, income excluding net realized gains (losses) was $5.84 per share, compared with $6.02 per share for the same period of 2007.
(1) 
Book value decreased $764 million during the first nine months excluding the redemption of preferred shares. The results for the first nine months of 2008 reflect the acquisition of Combined Insurance effective April 1, 2008.
 
"ACE performed relatively well in a period marked by extraordinary financial market conditions and significant natural catastrophes. Our financial results demonstrated balance sheet stability and earnings strength," said Evan G. Greenberg, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ACE Limited.
"For the quarter, we recorded operating income of $504 million, generated a return on equity of 12.7%, and our combined ratio was 97.9%. Our book value in the quarter was impacted by the extreme movement in financial asset prices and declined 6%, while in the last 12 months, our book value has remained stable, down less than 1%.
"In my judgment, given both the rapid destruction and increased cost of capital, combined with the damage inflicted on a number of companies in our industry, the soft market for P&C insurance is essentially over, and rates will begin to firm. These challenging times will create opportunities for those companies with the financial wherewithal and franchise power to take advantage, and I'm confident ACE will be one of them."
Other operating highlights were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Details of our financial results for our business segments are available in the ACE Limited Financial Supplement. Key segment items include:
 
 
 
 
Please refer to the ACE Limited Financial Supplement dated September 30, 2008, which is posted on the company's website in the Investor Information section, and access Financial Reports for more detailed information on individual segment performance, together with additional disclosure on reinsurance recoverable, loss reserves, investment portfolio and capital structure. The URL reference is: . (Due to the length of this URL, it may be necessary to copy and paste this hyperlink into your Internet browser's URL address field.)
http://media.corporate-ir.net/media_files/irol/10/100907/fin_supp_september _30_2008.xls
ACE will host its third quarter earnings conference call and webcast on Wednesday, October 29, 2008, beginning at 8:30 a.m. ET. The earnings conference call will be available via live and archived webcast at or by dialing 888-296-4305 (within the United States) or 719-457-2654 (international); passcode 8076874. Please refer to the ACE Limited website in the Investor Information section under Calendar of Events for details. A replay of the call will be available for approximately one month. To listen to the replay, dial: 888-203-1112 (in the United States) or 719-457-0820 (international); passcode 8076874.
www.acelimited.com
The ACE Group of Companies is a global leader in insurance and reinsurance serving a diverse group of clients. Headed by ACE Limited, the ACE Group of Companies conducts its business on a worldwide basis with operating subsidiaries in more than 50 countries. Additional information can be found at: www.acelimited.com.
 
is a common performance measurement for insurance companies. We believe this presentation enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. We exclude net realized gains (losses) and net realized gains (losses) included in Other (income) expense related to partially-owned insurance companies because the amount of these gains (losses) is heavily influenced by, and fluctuates in part according to, the availability of market opportunities.
Operating Income or Income excluding net realized gains (losses), net of tax
 
is a non-GAAP measure. We present income excluding net realized gains (losses), catastrophe losses and prior period development, net of tax because those events are deemed to be significant for the third quarter of 2008. We believe this separate presentation is meaningful and useful for users of our financial information.
Income excluding net realized gains (losses), catastrophe losses and prior period development, net of tax
is calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, future policy benefits, policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting income and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including net investment income, other income (expense), interest and income tax expense and net realized gains (losses). We believe the use of these measures enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business.
Underwriting income
is shareholders' equity less goodwill and other intangible assets. See reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures on page 29 in the financial supplement.
Tangible shareholders' equity
These measures should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
 
:
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Forward-looking statements made in this press release, such as those related to the P&C insurance market and ACE's performance therein, as well as economic conditions, company performance, reserves and valuations, reflect the Company's current views with respect to future events and financial performance and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in these statements. For example, the Company's forward-looking statements described above could be affected by continued adverse economic and insurance industry developments such as those of recent weeks, as well as competition, pricing and policy term trends, the levels of new and renewal business achieved, market acceptance, changes in demand, the frequency of unpredictable catastrophic events, actual loss experience, uncertainties in the reserving or settlement process, investment portfolio performance, integration activities and unexpected financial or operational performance with respect to acquired companies, unexpected effects or difficulties relating to the Company's recent re-domestication to Switzerland, new theories of liability, judicial, legislative, regulatory and other governmental developments, litigation tactics and developments, investigation developments and actual settlement terms, the amount and timing of reinsurance recoverable, credit developments among reinsurers, actual market developments, rating agency action, possible terrorism or the outbreak and effects of war and economic, political, regulatory, insurance and reinsurance business conditions, as well as management's response to these factors, and other factors identified in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
 
(3) Presented excluding the Life segment to allow for comparison and analysis with earnings guidance. This is a non-GAAP measure.
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Third Quarter Catastrophe Loss Charges - 2008
 
 
 
Note: The catastrophe losses above include offshore energy gross and net losses of $32 million and $10 million primarily for hurricane Ike in Insurance - Overseas General.
 
 
Insurance - North American
 
 
 
 
 
Insurance - Overseas General
 
 
 
 
 
Global Reinsurance
 
 
 
 
Life Insurance and Reinsurance
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Variable Annuity (VA) Lines
Historical Cash Flow Summary by Quarter
 
Death Benefits (GMDB)
 
 
Amounts represent past premium received and claims paid by quarter, split by benefit type.
 
Death Benefits (GMDB)
 
Premiums and claims from VA contracts reinsuring Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefits (GMDB)
 
Living Benefits (Includes GMIB and GMAB)
 
Premiums and claims from VA contracts reinsuring Guaranteed Minimum Income Benefits (GMIB) and Guaranteed Minimum Accumulation Benefits (GMAB), collectively known as Living Benefits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Reinsurance Recoverable by Division
 
 
 
Consolidated Reinsurance Recoverable
 
 
At June 30, 2008, $10.6 billion of ACE Limited recoverables were from rated reinsurers, of which 93.5% were rated the equivalent of A- or better by internationally recognized rating agencies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detail on Reinsurance Recoverable on Paid Losses and Loss Expenses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage-backed and Asset-backed Fixed Income Portfolio
Market Value at September 30, 2008
 
 
Insured asset-backed securities represent $147 million, or 18% of our asset-backed security holdings.
 
 
Mortgage-backed and Asset-backed Fixed Income Portfolio
Market Value at September 30, 2008
 
total $12.5 billion, are rated predominantly AAA and comprise 32% of the fixed income portfolio. This compares to a 45% mortgage-backed weighting in representative indices of the U.S. fixed income market. The minimum rating for initial purchases of mortgage and asset backed securities is AAA.
Mortgage-backed securities
 
ACE suspended new investments in ALT-A, credit card, auto and subprime backed securities in 1Q2008.
 
with implied or explicit government guarantees total $7.8 billion and represent 77% of the residential mortgage-backed portfolio.
Securities issued by Federal agencies
 
are rated predominantly AAA, backed by prime collateral and broadly diversified in over 300,000 loans. The portfolio's loan-to-value ratio is approximately 68% with an average FICO score of 736. With this conservative loan-to-value ratio and subordinated collateral of 12%, the cumulative 5-year foreclosure rate would have to rise to 28% and real estate values would have to fall 61% before principal is impaired. The comparable historical cumulative foreclosure rate is 2.5% for prime mortgages.
Non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities
 
Within the portfolio of prime AAA non-agency RMBS are $197 million of holdings classified as ALT-A. These ALT-A holdings are broadly diversified with over 69% issued prior to 2006. The average FICO score is 714 with a relatively conservative loan-to-value ratio of 71%. With subordinated collateral of 21%, the cumulative 4-year foreclosure rate would have to rise to 50% and real estate values would have to fall more than 59% before principal is impaired. The comparable historical cumulative foreclosure rate is approximately 8%.
 
of $2.3 billion are rated predominantly AAA, broadly diversified with over 26,000 loans and seasoned with 71% of the portfolio issued before 2006. The average loan-to-value ratio is approximately 63% with a debt service coverage ratio in excess of 1.7 and weighted average subordinated collateral of 26%. The cumulative foreclosure rate would have to rise to 61% and commercial real estate values would have to fall more than 64% before principal is impaired. The historical annual delinquency rate is 1%.
Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 
(current holdings of $100 million) are rated predominantly AA, broadly diversified in over 125,000 loans with an average loan-to-value ratio of approximately 80% and an average FICO score of 610. With subordinated collateral of 34%, the cumulative 5-year foreclosure rate would have to rise to 79% and real estate values would have to fall more than 54% before principal is impaired. The comparable historical cumulative 5-year foreclosure rate is 27%. The ratings have been reaffirmed on substantially all of these securities.
Subprime asset-backed securities
 
are rated predominantly AAA with a short duration of approximately 0.8 years and average subordinated collateral of 12%. Annual default rates would have to rise to 8 times their historic average of 1.5% before principal is impaired.
Auto loan asset-backed securities
 
 
Mortgage-backed and Asset-backed Fixed Income Portfolio
Amoritized Cost at September 30, 2008
 
 
Insured asset-backed securities represent $152 million, or 18% of our asset-backed security holdings.
 
 
Market Value at September 30, 2008
 
 
U.S. Investment Grade Corporate Fixed Income Portfolio
 
The average credit quality of ACE's US investment grade bond portfolio is very high at AA+. 66% of investment grade securities holdings are rated AAA or guaranteed by governments or quasi-government agencies.
 
ACE prohibits investments in complex structured securities (e.g. CDOs, CLOs) and over-the-counter derivatives and does not permit the use of portfolio leverage.
 
Corporate bond holdings are highly diversified across industries and geographies. Issuer limits are based on credit rating (AA 2%, A 1%, BBB .5% of total portfolio) and are monitored on a daily basis by ACE via an internal compliance system.
 
 
Market Value at September 30, 2008
 
 
Below Investment Grade Corporate Fixed income Portfolio
 
ACE manages high yield bonds as a distinct and separate asset class from investment grade bonds. ACE's allocation to high yield bonds is explicitly set by internal management and is targeted to securities in the upper tier of credit quality (BB/B). Our minimum rating for initial purchase is BB/B.
 
Four external investment managers are responsible for high yield security selection and portfolio construction.
 
ACE's high yield managers have a conservative approach to credit selection and very low historical default experience.
 
Securities holdings are highly diversified across industries and are subject to a 1.5% issuer limit as a percentage of high yield allocation (or 0.1% of total portfolio). The portfolio is comprised of over 500 issuers with our largest current issuer exposure at $38 million. ACE monitors position limits on a daily basis through an internal compliance system.
 
Derivative and structured securities (e.g. credit default swaps, CLOs) are not permitted in high yield portfolios.
 
 
Market Value at September 30, 2008
 
 
Non-US Fixed Income Portfolio
 
ACE's non-US investment grade fixed income portfolios are currency-matched with the insurance liabilities of ACE's non-US operations.
 
89% of ACE's non-US fixed income is denominated in G7 currencies.
 
Average credit quality of non-US fixed income securities is very high at AA and 54% of holdings are rated AAA or guaranteed by governments or quasi-government agencies.
 
Corporate bond holdings are highly diversified across industries and geographies. Issuer limits are based on credit rating (AA 2%, A 1%, BBB .5% of total portfolio) and are monitored on a daily basis by ACE via an internal compliance system.
 
 
Investment portfolio
Top 25 Exposures - Fixed Maturity Investments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulation G - Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
In presenting our results, we have included and discussed certain non-GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures, which may be defined differently by other companies, are important for an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, they should not be viewed as a substitute for measures determined in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of book value per share is provided on page 30.
 
In presenting our segment operating results, we have shown our performance with reference to underwriting results. Underwriting results are calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, future policy benefits, policy acquisition costs, and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting results and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including investment income, other income and expenses, interest and income tax expense, and net realized gains (losses).
 
The following non-GAAP measure is a common performance measurement and is defined as income excluding net realized gains (losses) and the related tax expense (benefit). We believe this presentation enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. We exclude net realized gains (losses) and net realized gains (losses) included in other income (expense) related to partially owned insurance companies because the amount of these gains (losses) is heavily influenced by, and fluctuates in part according to, the availability of market opportunities. Income excluding net realized gains (losses) should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Book Value per Common Share
 
 
 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
 
 
 
Income excluding net realized gains (losses) less perpetual preferred securities divided by average common shareholders' equity for the period. To annualize a quarterly rate multiply by four.
Annualized return on ordinary shareholders' equity (ROE):
 
Common shareholders' equity divided by the shares outstanding.
Book value per common share:
 
Combined Insurance Company of America, acquired April 1, 2008.
Combined Insurance:
 
The sum of the loss and loss expense ratio, acquisition cost ratio and the administrative expense ratio excluding life business. Calculated on a GAAP basis.
Combined ratio:
 
Income tax expense divided by the sum of income tax expense and income excluding net realized gains (losses).
Effective tax rate:
 
Unrealized gains (losses) on investments and the deferred tax component included in shareholders' equity.
FAS 115:
 
Net premium earned and net investment income less future policy benefits, acquisition costs and administrative expenses.
Life underwriting income:
 
Not meaningful.
NM:
 
Shareholders' equity less perpetual preferred shares.
Common shareholders' equity:
 
Common shareholders' equity less goodwill and other itangible assets divided by the shares outstanding.
Tangible book value per common share:
 
Shareholders' equity less goodwill and other intangible assets.
Tangible equity:
 
Short-term debt, long-term debt, trust preferreds, perpetual preferred shares and shareholders' equity.
Total capitalization:
 


