FILE:ACE/ACE-8K-20080718111158.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The rights of the Company's Common Shares are governed by the Company's Swiss Articles of Association, which are further described in the Company's proxy statement/prospectus dated May 30, 2008, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Rule 424(b)(3) on May 30, 2008 ("the Proxy Statement/Prospectus"), under the headings "Proposal No. 5: Approval of the ContinuationDescription of Share Capital", "Proposal No. 8: Approval of the Rearrangement of the Company's Existing Share Capital" and "Proposal No. 15: Approval of Dividend in the Form of a Par Value Reduction", which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. These Articles of Association became effective upon the Company's re-domestication from the Cayman Islands to Switzerland on July 18, 2008. The Articles of Association are attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1 and are incorporated by reference herein. Exhibit 4.1 contains the Articles of Association, including the numbers that were intentionally left blank in the Proxy Statement/Prospectus and which were calculated based on the number of Ordinary Shares issued and outstanding, the determination of the new par value in Swiss francs and the aggregate par value reduction, as further described on the Proxy Statement/Prospectus.
 
The Company's Swiss Articles of Association, which are further described in the Company's Proxy Statement/Prospectus under the heading "Proposal No. 5: Approval of the ContinuationDescription of Share Capital", which is hereby incorporated herein by reference, became effective upon the Company's re-domestication from the Cayman Islands to Switzerland on July 18, 2008.
The Company's Organizational Regulations became effective upon the Company's re-domestication from the Cayman Islands to Switzerland on July 18, 2008.
The Articles of Association and the Organizational Regulations are attached hereto as Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2, respectively, and are incorporated by reference herein. Exhibit 4.1 contains the Articles of Association, including the numbers that were intentionally left blank in the Proxy Statement/Prospectus and which were calculated based on the number of Ordinary Shares issued and outstanding, the determination of the new par value in Swiss francs and the aggregate par value reduction, as further described on the Proxy Statement/Prospectus.
 
On July 18, 2008, the Company's re-domestication from the Cayman Islands to Switzerland was completed. Upon the effectiveness of the re-domestication, the Company's CUSIP number was changed to H0023R 10 5. See the Company's press release dated July 18, 2008, a copy of which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and which is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: July 18, 2008

Exhibit 4.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 4.2
Contents
 
 
 
 
The board of directors of ACE Limited, Switzerland, ("") issues the following organizational regulations ("") based on art. 716b CO and art. 19 of the articles of association of ACE Limited ("").
Company
Organizational Regulations
Articles of Association
 
The Organizational Regulations define the organization and responsibilities of the executive bodies, i.e. the board of directors and its members (""), its committees and its chairman, the delegate of the board of directors and the chief executive officer as well as the executive management of the Company and its subsidiaries (together with the Company the ""). They implement and supplement applicable law and the Articles of Association by establishing binding rules regarding the organization of the Group and its overall management.
Board Members
Group
 
The executive bodies of the Company are:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Board of Directors is entitled to pass resolutions on all matters which are not delegated to, or reserved for, the shareholders meeting or another body of the Company by law, the Articles of Association or the Organizational Regulations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Board of Directors has the following further powers and responsibilities with regard to the Company and the Group:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Board of Directors delegates the management of the Company and the Group to the Chief Executive Officer and the other members of the Executive Management as provided for by these Organizational Regulations.
Board Members will have complete and open access to the Chief Executive Officer, chief financial officer, general counsel, chief compliance officer and the head of internal audit.
 
The Board of Directors shall elect a Chairman as well as a Lead Director (who also acts as vice-chairman) from amongst its members. The Chairman may also be appointed as the Chief Executive Officer, i.e. the Delegate.
 
The Board of Directors shall appoint a Secretary (a person keeping the minutes and assisting in the preparation of board meetings) who need not to be a member of the Board of Directors.
 
 
 
 
In case of urgency shorter notice periods are permitted. If all Board Members are present and agree, deviations from these formal requirements are permitted; in particular, decisions can be taken that are not mentioned on the agenda.
Furthermore, these formal requirements do not have to be observed, if a meeting is only convened in order to record the implementation of a capital increase, to pass resolutions regarding the amendments of the Articles of Association entailed therewith and to adopt the report on the capital increase.
 
 
 
 
A quorum of Board Members shall not be required in order to record the implementation of a capital increase, to pass resolutions regarding the amendments of the Articles of Association entailed therewith and to adopt the report on the capital increase.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Board of Directors shall submit nominations of new Board Members for election at the shareholders meeting that ensure an adequate size and well-balanced composition of the Board of Directors and further ensure that a majority of the Board Members are independent within applicable legal and stock exchange requirements.
 
 
 
The Chairman shall preside over the shareholders meeting. Together with the person keeping the minutes, he/she shall sign the minutes of the shareholders meeting.
The Chairman has the right to call in third parties as advisors in meetings of the Board of Directors.
 
 
If the Chairman of the Board of Directors is prevented from performing his/her duties, they shall be performed by the Lead Director.
 
The Board of Directors shall appoint a Lead Director, who shall have the following responsibilities, together with such others as the Board of Directors might from time to time specify:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each Committee is constituted by a chairman and at least one further member, each appointed by the Board of Directors among its members.
 
The term of a membership in a Committee is one year upon appointment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Meetings of the executive committee ("") are convened in accordance with Clause 5.4. Additionally, the Delegate and the Chief Executive Officer may request a meeting.
Executive Committee
 
In case of urgencies, the Executive Committee is to exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the ultimate management of the business and affairs of the Company between the meetings of the Board of Directors, except (a) as limited by Clause 2.1, the Company's Articles of Association, rules of the New York Stock Exchange or applicable law or regulation and (b) matters that are specifically reserved for another Committee of the Board of Directors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Nominating and Governance Committee is to assist the Board of Directors in (1) identifying individuals qualified to become Board Members, and recommending to the Board Members nominees for the next annual general shareholders meeting or to fill vacancies; and (2) developing and recommending to the Board of Directors corporate governance guidelines for the Group.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Board of Directors may designate one or more additional committees, each such committee to consist of such person or persons as may be designated by the Board of Directors. Except as expressly limited by law or by the Company's Articles of Association or by resolution of the Board of Directors, any such committee shall have and may exercise such powers and adopt such procedures as the Board of Directors may determine and specify in the resolution designating such committee.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In case of urgency shorter notice periods are permitted. If all members of the Executive Management are present and agree, deviations from these formal requirements are permitted; in particular, decisions can be taken that are not mentioned on the agenda.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Group internal audit ("") shall examine and evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group's internal control environment, and the quality of performance in carrying out assigned responsibilities to achieve the Group's goals and objectives.
Group Internal Audit
In fulfilling its responsibilities, Group Internal Audit shall:
 
 
 
 
 
The organizational structure of Group Internal Audit and resource requirements necessary for Group Internal Audit to perform its activities shall be defined by the head of Group Internal Audit and submitted to the Audit Committee for approval. The head of Group Internal Audit shall review and approve all new hires and terminations of staff.
 
Group Internal Audit shall adhere to the Group's guidelines and procedures and Group Internal Audit's organization and processes manuals and guidelines or to such other standards as required by applicable law or regulation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Board Members as well as all other executive bodies and employees are obliged to maintain secrecy towards third parties regarding all facts they obtain knowledge of during the performance of their duties. These duties of non-disclosure survive the termination of the relationship of the respective individual with the Company.
 
Upon termination of the relationship with the Company all business files must be returned with the exception of documents used by a Board Member to follow-up his/her own actions.
 
The business year of the Company starts on 1 January and ends on 31 December.
 
 
These Organizational Regulations shall enter into force on the date of adoption by the Board of Directors; be it in a meeting or by circular resolution.
 
These Organizational Regulations shall be reviewed and if necessary amended on a regular basis by the Board of Directors.
 
The Company shall indemnify, in accordance with and to the full extent now or hereafter permitted by law, any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (including, without limitation, an action by or in the right of the Company), by reason of his acting as a director, officer, employee or agent of, or his acting in any other capacity for or on behalf of, the Company, against any liability or expense actually and reasonably incurred by such person in respect thereof. The Company may advance the expenses of defending any such act, suit or proceeding in accordance with and to the full extent now or hereafter permitted by law. Such indemnification and advancement of expenses are not exclusive of any other right to indemnification or advancement of expenses provided by law or otherwise.
The Board of Directors may authorize the Company to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company,
 
or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another company, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, or in a fiduciary or other capacity with respect to any employee benefit plan maintained by the Company, against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him in any such capacity, or arising out of his status as such, whether or not the Company would have the power to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of this Article 18.
 
Hamilton, Bermuda
July 14, 2008
The Chairman of the Board of Directors:
 

Exhibit 4.3

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
HAMILTON, Bermuda  July 18, 2008  ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE) announced today that it has completed the previously-announced re-domestication of the Company from the Cayman Islands to Zurich, Switzerland. ACE continues to be registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and prepare its financial statements in U.S dollars and in accordance with U.S. GAAP reporting. Shareholders will continue to receive dividends in U.S. dollars, and the Company's common shares will continue to trade on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "ACE."
At the ACE Annual General Meeting, held July 10 and 14, 2008, ACE's shareholders approved all proposals voted upon. The re-domestication became official following governmental filings made in the Cayman Islands and Switzerland, and the establishment of the holding company in Zurich. Certain corporate governance and other changes effected as part of the re-domestication, including new charter documents and the increase in the par value of common shares of the Company, are described in SEC filings on Form 8-K and the Company's proxy statement/prospectus dated May 30, 2008, available at . The business of the ACE Group of Companies was not otherwise materially affected by the re-domestication.
www.sec.gov
"This is an historic day for ACE as we commence operations as a Swiss company," said Evan G. Greenberg, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ACE Limited. "We are grateful to our shareholders, who understand the strategic wisdom of this move and overwhelmingly adopted all of our re-domestication proposals."
The ACE Group of Companies is a global leader in insurance and reinsurance serving a diverse group of clients. Headed by ACE Limited, the ACE Group of Companies conducts its business on a worldwide basis with operating subsidiaries in more than 50 countries. Additional information can be found at: .
www.acelimited.com
:
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Forward-looking statements made in this press release reflect the Company's current views with respect to future events and performance and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in these statements. For example, the Company's forward-looking statements about its business and operations following the re-domestication, and the anticipated effects of the re-domestication, could be affected by risks such as if the Company encounters difficulties with the transition to a new jurisdiction of incorporation and statutory regime. In addition, the Company's business in general will continue to be subject to risks including competition, pricing and policy term trends, the levels of new and renewal business achieved, market acceptance, changes in demand, the frequency of unpredictable catastrophic events, actual loss experience, uncertainties in the reserving or settlement process, new theories of liability, judicial, legislative, regulatory and other governmental developments, litigation tactics and developments, investigation developments and actual settlement terms, the amount and timing of reinsurance recoverable, credit developments among reinsurers, actual market developments, rating agency action, possible terrorism or the outbreak and effects of war and economic, political, regulatory, insurance and reinsurance business conditions, as well as management's response to these factors, and other factors identified in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 


