FILE:ACE/ACE-8K-20080205174924.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On February 5, 2008, ACE Limited issued a press release reporting its fourth quarter 2007 results and the availability of its fourth quarter financial supplement. The press release and the financial supplement are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
DATE: February 5, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
 
 
 ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE) today reported net income for the fourth quarter ended December 31, 2007, of $1.69 per common share after payment of preferred dividends, compared with $1.99 per share for the same quarter last year. Income excluding net realized gains (losses) for the fourth quarter was $2.05 per share, compared with $1.92 per share for the same quarter of last year. Book value increased 4% for the quarter, and annualized return on average equity was 17.2%. The net realized and unrealized loss after tax was $15 million for the quarter. The overall mark-to-market impact on our investment portfolio was a pre-tax gain of $106 million.
HAMILTON, Bermuda, February 5, 2008
(1)
(2)
 
 
 
 
Net income for the year was $7.66 per share, an increase of 11% over prior year. For 2007, income excluding net realized gains (losses) and cumulative effect of an accounting change was $8.07 per share, compared with $7.05 per share for 2006.The combined ratio for the year was 87.9%, compared with 88.1% for 2006. Book value increased 17% and return on equity for the year was 17.9%.
(3)
(1)
( 2)
 
 
 
Evan Greenberg, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ACE Limited, commented: "ACE had a strong fourth quarter that capped an excellent year for the Company. All areas of the Company performed well, and the financial markets crisis had a relatively modest impact on our results. For the year, we achieved record net income and net operating income, which increased 12% and 15%, respectively, while book value per share increased 16%. In December we announced two acquisitions that will further diversify and contribute to ACE's future earnings. Looking ahead, we are well positioned to manage through an increasingly difficult environment marked by continuing volatility in the financial markets, deteriorating economic fundamentals and a softening property and casualty market."
(4)
 
Other operating highlights were as follows:
 
 
Details of our financial results for our business segments are available in the financial supplement. Key segment items include:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please refer to the ACE Limited Financial Supplement dated December 31, 2007, which is posted on the Company's website in the Investor Information section, and access Financial Reports for more detailed information on individual segment performance, together with additional disclosure on reinsurance recoverable, loss reserves, investment portfolio and capital structure. The URL reference is: . (Due to the length of this URL, it may be necessary to copy and paste this hyperlink into your Internet browser's URL address field.)
http://media.corporate-ir.net/media_files/nys/ace/reports/fin_supp_december_31_2007.xls
 
ACE will host its fourth quarter earnings conference call and webcast on Wednesday, February 6, 2008, beginning at 8:30 a.m. ET. The earnings conference call will be available via live and archived webcast at or by dialing 888-819-8006 (within the United States) or 913-312-0823 (international); passcode 6462453. Please refer to the ACE Limited website in the Investor Information section under Calendar of Events for details. A replay of the call will be available for approximately one month. To listen to the replay, dial: 888-203-1112 (in the United States) or 719-457-0820 (international); passcode 6462453.
www.acelimited.com
 
The ACE Group of Companies is a global leader in insurance and reinsurance serving a diverse group of clients. Headed by ACE Limited, a component of the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index, the ACE Group of Companies conducts its business on a worldwide basis with operating subsidiaries in more than 50 countries. Additional information can be found at: www.acelimited.com.
 
Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
1
is a common performance measurement for insurance companies. We believe this presentation enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. We exclude net realized gains (losses) and net realized gains (losses) included in Other (income) expense related to partially-owned insurance companies because the amount of these gains (losses) is heavily influenced by, and fluctuates in part according to, the availability of market opportunities. We exclude the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle net of tax because this amount resulted in a one-time adjustment to income.
Operating Income or Income excluding net realized gains (losses) and cumulative effect, net of tax
is calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, life and annuity benefits, policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting income and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including net investment income, other (income) expense, interest and income tax expense and net realized gains (losses). We believe the use of these measures enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business.
Underwriting income
is shareholders' equity less goodwill. See reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures beginning on page 24 in the financial supplement.
Tangible shareholders' equity
These measures should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
 
Calculated using income excluding net realized gains (losses).
2
The cumulative effect is a benefit resulting from the inclusion of a forfeiture rate on restricted stock in our stock compensation expense calculations, as required under Financial Accounting Standard (FAS) 123R.
3
Book value per ordinary share is ordinary shareholders' equity divided by the shares outstanding. Tangible book value per ordinary share is ordinary shareholders' equity less goodwill divided by the shares outstanding.
4
 
 
:
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
Forward-looking statements made in this press release reflect the Company's current views with respect to future events and financial performance and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in these statements. For example, the Company's forward-looking statements could be affected by competition, pricing and policy term trends, the levels of new and renewal business achieved, market acceptance, changes in demand, the frequency of unpredictable catastrophic events, actual loss experience, uncertainties in the reserving or settlement process, new theories of liability, judicial, legislative, regulatory and other governmental developments, litigation tactics and developments, investigation developments and actual settlement terms, the amount and timing of reinsurance recoverable, credit developments among reinsurers, actual market developments, rating agency action, possible terrorism or the outbreak and effects of war and economic, political, regulatory, insurance and reinsurance business conditions, as well as management's response to these factors, and other factors identified in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Additional Facts:
 
* Excludes Mortgage Bankers/Brokers
 
Insurance - North American
 
 
 
Insurance - Overseas General
 
 
 
 
Global Reinsurance
 
 
 
 
Global Reinsurance
 
 
 
Life Insurance and Reinsurance
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Reinsurance Recoverable by Division
 
 
 
Reinsurance Recoverable for Active Operations
 
 
At September 30, 2007, $7.7 billion of the active operations' recoverables were from rated reinsurers, of which 93.7% were rated the equivalent of A- or better by internationally recognized rating agencies. The Company held collateral of $3.3 billion, of which $2.1 billion was matched and usable against existing recoverables.
 
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Reinsurance Recoverable
 
 
At September 30, 2007, $11.2 billion of ACE Limited recoverables were from rated reinsurers, of which 93.8% were rated the equivalent of A- or better by internationally recognized rating agencies.
 
 
 
 
 
Detail on Reinsurance Recoverable on Paid Losses and Loss Expenses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Investment portfolio
 
Top 10 Exposures - Fixed Maturity Investments
 
 
 
Mortgage-backed and Asset-backed Fixed Income Portfolio
 
Market Value at December 31, 2007
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulation G - Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
In presenting our results, we have included and discussed certain non-GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures, which may be defined differently by other companies, are important for an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, they should not be viewed as a substitute for measures determined in accordance with GAAP. A reconciliation of book value per share is provided on page 25.
 
In presenting our segment operating results, we have shown our performance with reference to underwriting results. Underwriting results are calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, life and annuity benefits, policy acquisition costs, and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting results and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including investment income, other income and expenses, interest and income tax expense, and net realized gains (losses).
 
The following non-GAAP measure is a common performance measurement and is defined as income excluding net realized gains (losses), the tax expense (benefit) on net realized gains (losses), and cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, net of tax. We believe this presentation enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. We exclude net realized gains (losses) and net realized gains (losses) included in other (income) expense related to partially owned insurance companies because the amount of these gains (losses) is heavily influenced by, and fluctuates in part according to, the availability of market opportunities. We exclude the benefit of the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle, net of tax, because this benefit resulted in a one time adjustment to income. We believe these amounts are largely independent of our business and including them would distort the analysis of trends. Income excluding net realized gains (losses) and cumulative effect should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Book Value per Ordinary Share
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
 
 
 
Income excluding net realized gains (losses) and cumulative effect less perpetual preferred securities divided by average ordinary shareholders' equity for the period. To annualize a quarterly rate multiply by four.
Annualized return on ordinary shareholders' equity (ROE):
 
Ordinary shareholders' equity divided by the shares outstanding.
Book value per ordinary share:
 
The sum of the loss and loss expense ratio, acquisition cost ratio and the administrative expense ratio excluding life business. Calculated on a GAAP basis.
Combined ratio:
 
The benefit resulting from the accrual of a forfeiture rate on the restricted stock under Financial Accounting Standard 123R "Share-Based Payment".
Cumulative effect:
 
Income tax expense divided by the sum of income tax expense and income excluding net realized gains (losses) and cumulative effect.
Effective tax rate:
 
Unrealized gains (losses) on investments and the deferred tax component included in shareholders' equity.
FAS 115:
 
Net premium earned and net investment income less future policy benefits, acquisition costs and administrative expenses.
Life underwriting income:
 
Not meaningful.
NM:
 
Shareholders' equity less perpetual preferred shares.
Ordinary shareholders' equity:
 
Property and casualty.
P&C:
 
Ordinary shareholders' equity less goodwill divided by the shares outstanding.
Tangible book value per ordinary share:
 
Shareholders' equity less goodwill.
Tangible equity:
 
Short-term debt, long-term debt, trust preferreds, perpetual preferred shares and shareholders' equity.
Total capitalization:
 
Year to date.
YTD:
 


