FILE:ACE/ACE-8K-20081007141853.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 3, 2008, ACE Limited issued a press release announcing that estimated net after-tax losses in the third quarter for the ACE Group of Companies from catastrophes, including Hurricanes Gustav and Ike, will amount to approximately $315 million, including reinstatement premiums. The press release attached hereto as Exhibit 99 is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
 
Prior to the company's redomestication from the Cayman Islands to Switzerland it registered Ordinary Shares on Form S-8 pursuant to the plans set forth below. As a result of the company's redomestication, the shares registered by such registration statements are now Common Shares of a Swiss company. An opinion as to legality of the shares so registered under Swiss law is attached as Exhibit 5 hereto.
 
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: October 7, 2008

Exhibit 5
ACE Limited
Mainaustrasse 30
CH-8008 Switzerland
October 2, 2008
ACE Limited (the "Company") - Form S-8 Registration Statements
Dear Sirs,
We have been asked to render this opinion in our capacity as Swiss counsel to the Company in connection with certain Registration Statements on Form S-8 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, filed with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission prior to the transfer of domicile of the Company to Switzerland. A list of the relevant plans is enclosed as to this opinion (the "").
Annex 1
Plans
 
For the purpose of this opinion we have reviewed and relied on copies of the following documents:
 
 
 
The opinions given in this opinion relate only to the laws of Switzerland as in force at the date hereof. We express no opinion on the laws of any other jurisdiction. The opinions given in this opinion are strictly limited to the matters stated in section III and do not extend to any other matters.
The opinions given herein are made on the basis of the following assumptions:
 
 
 
 
 
Based upon the foregoing, in reliance thereon, and subject to the limitations and assumptions referred to above (II) and the qualifications set out below (IV), we are of the following opinion:
 
 
 
This opinion is subject to the following qualifications:
 
 
 
 
This legal opinion is rendered solely to the persons to whom it is addressed and for the purpose of the transaction herein referred to. It may not be used, circulated, quoted, referred to or relied upon by any person other than the persons to whom it is addressed nor for any other purpose without our written consent in each instance. We hereby consent to the filing of this legal opinion as an exhibit to the Registration Statements identified in Annex 1. In giving this consent, we do not hereby admit that we are within the category of persons whose consent is required under Section 7 of the Securities Act or the rules and regulations of the SEC promulgated thereunder. This legal opinion is strictly limited to the matters stated in it and does not apply by implication to other matters.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99
 
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
October 3, 2008  ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE) announced today that estimated net after-tax losses in the third quarter for the ACE Group of Companies from catastrophes, including Hurricanes Gustav and Ike, will amount to approximately $315 million, including reinstatement premiums.
ZURICH, Switzerland 
The ACE Group of Companies is a global leader in insurance and reinsurance serving a diverse group of clients. Headed by ACE Limited, the ACE Group of Companies conducts its business on a worldwide basis with operating subsidiaries in more than 50 countries. Additional information can be found at: .
www.acelimited.com
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements:
Forward-looking statements made in this press release reflect ACE Limited's current views with respect to future events and financial performance and reports, and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in these statements. Among other things, the forward-looking statements concerning net after-tax losses could be affected by the number of insureds and ceding companies affected by the relevant catastrophes, the amount and timing of losses actually incurred and reported by insureds, the preliminary nature of reports and estimates of loss to date, impact on the company's reinsurers, the amount and timing of reinsurance recoverables actually received, coverage and regulatory issues, and other factors identified in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date on which they are made. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


