FILE:ACE/ACE-8K-20080201111444.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) Brian Duperreault, former chairman and chief executive officer, resigned from the ACE Limited Board of Directors on January 29, 2008 as a result of his appointment as chief executive officer of Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. Mr. Duperreault's resignation was not the result of any disagreement with ACE's Board of Directors.
A copy of the press release dated January 30, 2008 announcing Mr. Duperreault's resignation is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
(e) In connection with Mr. Duperreault's resignation, the Compensation Committee approved a cash severance payment to Mr. Duperreault in the amount of $4,950,000 as compensation for his past service to ACE Limited.
 
(d)     Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
DATE: February 1, 2008

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 
HAMILTON, Bermuda  January 30, 2008  ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE) announced today that Brian Duperreault, former chairman and chief executive officer, has stepped down from the ACE Limited Board of Directors as a result of his appointment as chief executive officer of Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc.
"We wish Brian all the best on his new assignment leading the Marsh & McLennan organization," said Evan G. Greenberg, Chairman & Chief Executive Officer of ACE Limited. "Marsh & McLennan is a great global franchise and an important presence in our industry. We have every confidence that Brian will provide the same exceptional leadership to Marsh & McLennan that he gave to ACE for so many years and for which we will always be grateful. We look forward to working with Brian and all of his new colleagues."
The ACE Group of Companies is a global leader in insurance and reinsurance serving a diverse group of clients. Headed by ACE Limited, a component of the Standard & Poor's 500 stock index, the ACE Group of Companies conducts its business on a worldwide basis with operating subsidiaries in more than 50 countries. Additional information can be found at: www.acelimited.com.
 


