FILE:ACE/ACE-8K-20090428183704.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 28, 2009, ACE Limited issued a press release reporting its first quarter 2009 results and the availability of its first quarter financial supplement. The press release and the financial supplement are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
DATE: April 28, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE) today reported net income for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, of $1.69 per share, compared with $1.10 per share for the same quarter last year.
ZURICH, Switzerland, April 28, 2009
(1)
Income excluding net realized gains (losses) was $1.99 per share, compared with $2.14 per share.
(2)
The net realized and unrealized losses after tax were $291 million due to the mark-to-market pricing impact caused by continued widening of credit spreads and the decline in global equity markets. Realized losses due to credit impairment were $27 million. Book value increased $272 million, up 2% from December 31, 2008. Annualized return on average equity was 18.4%.
(3)
The property and casualty (P&C) combined ratio was 87.5%.
 
Evan G. Greenberg, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ACE Limited, stated: "ACE had a good first quarter, marked by strong operating and net income, with all divisions of the company making a positive contribution to results. Book value grew 2% and our ROE was over 18%.
"The strong U.S. dollar had a substantial and negative impact on our P&C premium revenue, which grew 7% in the quarter after adjusting for foreign exchange. We benefited from a generally firming market, particularly in our P&C reinsurance and global retail P&C insurance businesses. We also continued to benefit from the consolidation of Combined Insurance Company in our results.
"As the year goes on, I expect revenue growth to remain under pressure due to global recessionary conditions and foreign exchange. While many of our customers' exposures are down due to reduced business activity, and many companies are in search of more affordable insurance alternatives, the quality of our portfolio of risks continues to improve given the firming pricing environment and the client flight to capability of a company like ACE."
 
Other operating highlights were as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Details of our financial results for our business segments are available in the ACE Limited Financial Supplement. Key segment items include:
 
 
 
 
Earnings guidance announced on December 18, 2008, for the ACE Group for the full year 2009 has not changed.
Please refer to the ACE Limited Financial Supplement dated March 31, 2009, which is posted on the company's website in the Investor Information section, and access Financial Reports for more detailed information on individual segment performance, together with additional disclosure on reinsurance recoverable, loss reserves, investment portfolio and capital structure. The URL reference is: .
http://media.corporate-ir.net/media_files/irol/10/100907/fin_supp_march 31 2009.xls
 
ACE will host its first quarter earnings conference call and webcast on Wednesday, April 29, 2009, beginning at 8:30 a.m. ET. The earnings conference call will be available via live and archived webcast at or by dialing 877-718-5111 (within the United States) or 719-325-4786 (international); passcode 4963586. Please refer to the ACE Limited website in the Investor Information section under Calendar of Events for details. A replay of the call will be available for approximately one month. To listen to the replay, dial: 888-203-1112 (in the United States) or 719-457-0820 (international); passcode 4963586.
www.acelimited.com
The ACE Group is a global leader in insurance and reinsurance serving a diverse group of clients. Headed by ACE Limited, the ACE Group conducts its business on a worldwide basis with operating subsidiaries in more than 50 countries. Additional information can be found at: .
www.acelimited.com
 
 
 
is a common performance measurement for insurance companies. We believe this presentation enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. We exclude net realized gains (losses) and net realized gains (losses) included in Other (income) expense related to partially-owned insurance companies because the amount of these gains (losses) do not relate to their respective operations.
Operating Income or Income excluding net realized gains (losses), net of tax
is calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, policy benefits, policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting income and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including net investment income, other income (expense), interest and income tax expense and net realized gains (losses). We believe the use of these measures enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business.
Underwriting income
is shareholders' equity less goodwill and other intangible assets. See reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures on page 28 in the financial supplement.
Tangible shareholders' equity
These measures should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
 
 
Combined Insurance  Combined Insurance Company of America and certain of its subsidiaries.
NM  not meaningful comparison
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements:
Forward-looking statements made in this press release, such as those related to premium revenue, client behavior, economic and insurance market conditions, and company performance reflect the company's current views with respect to future events and financial performance and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in these statements. For example, the company's forward-looking statements could be affected by competition, pricing and policy term trends, the levels of new and renewal business achieved, market acceptance, changes in demand, the frequency of unpredictable catastrophic events, actual loss experience, uncertainties in the reserving or settlement process, integration activities and unexpected financial or operational performance with respect to acquired companies, unexpected effects or difficulties relating to the company's re-domestication to Switzerland, new theories of liability, judicial, legislative, regulatory and other governmental developments, litigation tactics and developments, investigation developments and actual settlement terms, the amount and timing of reinsurance recoverable, credit developments among reinsurers, actual market developments, rating agency action, possible terrorism or the outbreak and effects of war and economic, political, regulatory, insurance and reinsurance business conditions, as well as management's response to these factors, and other factors identified in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Insurance - North American
 
 
 
 
Insurance - Overseas General
 
 
 
 
Global Reinsurance
 
 
 
Life
 
 
 
 
 
 
Variable Annuity (VA) Lines
Historical Cash Flow Summary by Quarter
 
 
Amounts represent accrued past premium received and claims paid by quarter, split by benefit type.
 
Death Benefits (GMDB)
 
Premiums and claims from VA contracts reinsuring Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefits (GMDB)
 
Using our current mortality assumptions we expect approximately $165 million of claims and $95 million of premium on death benefits over the next 12 months.
 
Living Benefits (Includes GMIB and GMAB)
 
Premiums and claims from VA contracts reinsuring Guaranteed Minimum Income Benefits (GMIB) and Guaranteed Minimum Accumulation Benefits (GMAB), collectively known as Living Benefits.
 
Using our current assumptions we expect approximately $3 million of claims and $145 million of premium on living benefits over the next 12 months.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Reinsurance Recoverable by Division
 
 
Consolidated Reinsurance Recoverable
 
At December 31, 2008, $10.6 billion of ACE Limited recoverables were from rated reinsurers, of which 94.3% were rated the equivalent of A- or better by internationally recognized rating agencies.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Detail on Reinsurance Recoverable on Paid Losses and Loss Expenses
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage-backed and Asset-backed Fixed Income Portfolio
Market Value at March 31, 2009
 
Insured asset-backed securities represent $93 million, or 15% of our asset-backed security holdings.
 
 
Mortgage-backed and Asset-backed Fixed Income Portfolio
Market Value at March 31, 2009
 
total $10.8 billion, are rated predominantly AAA and comprise 28% of the fixed income portfolio. This compares to a 45% mortgage-backed weighting in representative indices of the U.S. fixed income market. The minimum rating for initial purchases of mortgage and asset backed securities is AAA.
Mortgage-backed securities
 
ACE suspended new investments in sub-prime backed securities in 3Q 2007 and ALT-A, credit card, and auto backed securities in 1Q 2008 and suspended new investments in CMBS in Q1 2009.
 
with implied or explicit government guarantees total $7.1 billion and represent 82% of the residential mortgage-backed portfolio.
Securities issued by Federal agencies
 
are rated predominantly AAA, backed by prime collateral, and broadly diversified in over 300,000 loans. The portfolio's loan-to-value ratio is approximately 68% with an average FICO score of 735. With this conservative loan-to-value ratio and subordinated collateral of 12%, the cumulative 5-year foreclosure rate would have to rise to 21% and real estate values would have to fall 45% before principal is impaired. The comparable historical cumulative foreclosure rate is 6% for prime mortgages.
Non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities
 
Within the portfolio of prime non-agency RMBS are $144 million of holdings classified as ALT-A. These ALT-A holdings are broadly diversified with over 70% issued prior to 2006. The average FICO score is 715 with a relatively conservative loan-to-value ratio of 70%. With subordinated collateral of 19%, the cumulative 5-year foreclosure rate would have to rise to 30% and real estate values would have to fall more than 45% before principal is impaired. The comparable historical cumulative foreclosure rate is approximately 10%.
 
of $2.1 billion are rated predominantly AAA, broadly diversified with over 26,000 loans and seasoned with 72% of the portfolio issued before 2006. The average loan-to-value ratio is approximately 63% with a debt service coverage ratio in excess of 1.7 and weighted average subordinated collateral of 27%. The cumulative foreclosure rate would have to rise to 62% and commercial real estate values would have to fall more than 64% before principal is impaired. The historical annual delinquency rate is 1%.
Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 
(current holdings of $64 million) are rated predominantly AAA, broadly diversified in over 115,000 loans with an average loan-to-value ratio of approximately 81% and an average FICO score of 604. With subordinated collateral of 32%, the cumulative 5-year foreclosure rate would have to rise to 49% and real estate values would have to fall more than 40% before principal is impaired. The comparable historical cumulative 5-year foreclosure rate is 32%.
Sub-prime asset-backed securities
 
are rated predominantly AAA with a short duration of approximately 0.8 years and average subordinated collateral of 14%. Annual default rates would have to rise to 15 times their current level of about 1.9% before principal is impaired.
Auto loan asset-backed securities
 
 
Mortgage-backed and Asset-backed Fixed Income Portfolio
Amortized Cost at March 31, 2009
 
Insured asset-backed securities represent $105 million, or 16% of our asset-backed security holdings.
 
 
Market Value at March 31, 2009
 
 
U.S. Investment Grade Corporate Fixed Income Portfolio
 
The average credit quality of ACE's US investment grade bond portfolio is very high at AA+. 68% of investment grade securities holdings are rated AAA or guaranteed by governments or quasi-government agencies.
 
ACE prohibits investments in complex structured securities (e.g. CDOs, CLOs) and over-the-counter derivatives and does not permit the use of portfolio leverage.
 
Corporate bond holdings are highly diversified across industries and geographies. Issuer limits are based on credit rating (AA 2%, A 1%, BBB 0.5% of total portfolio) and are monitored on a daily basis by ACE via an internal compliance system.
 
 
Market Value at March 31, 2009
 
 
Below Investment Grade Corporate Fixed income Portfolio
 
ACE manages high yield bonds as a distinct and separate asset class from investment grade bonds. ACE's allocation to high yield bonds is explicitly set by internal management and is targeted to securities in the upper tier of credit quality (BB/B). Our minimum rating for initial purchase is BB/B.
 
Four external investment managers are responsible for high yield security selection and portfolio construction.
 
ACE's high yield managers have a conservative approach to credit selection and very low historical default experience.
 
Securities holdings are highly diversified across industries and are subject to a 1.5% issuer limit as a percentage of high yield allocation (or 0.1% of total portfolio). The portfolio is comprised of over 500 issuers with our largest current issuer exposure at $37 million. ACE monitors position limits on a daily basis through an internal compliance system.
 
Derivative and structured securities (e.g. credit default swaps, CLOs) are not permitted in high yield portfolios.
 
 
Market Value at March 31, 2009
 
Non-U.S. Fixed Income Portfolio
 
ACE's non-U.S. investment grade fixed income portfolios are currency-matched with the insurance liabilities of ACE's non-U.S. operations. 88% of ACE's non-U.S. fixed income is denominated in G7 currencies.
 
Average credit quality of non-U.S. fixed income securities is very high at AA and 57% of holdings are rated AAA or guaranteed by governments or quasi-government agencies.
 
Corporate bond holdings are highly diversified across industries and geographies. Issuer limits are based on credit rating (AA 2%, A 1%, BBB 0.5% of total portfolio) and are monitored on a daily basis by ACE via an internal compliance system.
 
 
Investment portfolio
Top 25 Exposures - Fixed Maturity Investments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulation G - Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
In presenting our results, we have included and discussed certain non-GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures, which may be defined differently by other companies, are important for an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, they should not be viewed as a substitute for measures determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). A reconciliation of book value per share is provided on page 29.
 
In presenting our segment operating results, we have shown our performance with reference to underwriting results. Underwriting results are calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, policy benefits, policy acquisition costs, and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting results and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including investment income, other income and expenses, interest and income tax expense, and net realized gains (losses).
 
The following non-GAAP measure is a common performance measurement and is defined as income excluding net realized gains (losses) and the related tax expense (benefit). We believe this presentation enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. We exclude net realized gains (losses) and net realized gains (losses) included in other income (expense) related to partially owned insurance companies because the amount of these gains (losses) is heavily influenced by, and fluctuates in part according to, the availability of market opportunities. Income excluding net realized gains (losses) should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Book Value per Common Share
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
 
 
Income excluding net realized gains (losses) less perpetual preferred securities divided by average common shareholders' equity for the period. To annualize a quarterly rate multiply by four.
Annualized return on ordinary shareholders' equity (ROE):
 
Common shareholders' equity divided by the shares outstanding.
Book value per common share:
 
Combined Insurance Company of America, acquired April 1, 2008.
Combined Insurance:
 
The sum of the loss and loss expense ratio, acquisition cost ratio and the administrative expense ratio excluding life business. Calculated on a GAAP basis.
Combined ratio:
 
Income tax expense divided by the sum of income tax expense and income excluding net realized gains (losses).
Effective tax rate:
 
Unrealized gains (losses) on investments and the deferred tax component included in shareholders' equity.
FAS 115:
 
Net premium earned and net investment income less policy benefits, acquisition costs, and administrative expenses.
Life underwriting income:
 
Not meaningful.
NM:
 
Shareholders' equity less perpetual preferred shares.
Common shareholders' equity:
 
Common shareholders' equity less goodwill and other intangible assets divided by the shares outstanding.
Tangible book value per common share:
 
Shareholders' equity less goodwill and other intangible assets.
Tangible equity:
 
Short-term debt, long-term debt, trust preferreds, perpetual preferred shares, and shareholders' equity.
Total capitalization:
 


