FILE:ACE/ACE-8K-20090522133125.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 20, 2009, the company announced that Brian Dowd, Chief Executive Officer, Insurance  North America, has been named to the additional position of Vice Chairman, ACE Limited and ACE Group Holdings. A copy of the press release for such announcement is set forth as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: May 22, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
 ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE) announced today that Brian Dowd, Chief Executive Officer, Insurance  North America, has been named to the additional position of Vice Chairman, ACE Limited and ACE Group Holdings.
ZURICH, Switzerland  May 20, 2009
In addition to his current responsibilities, which encompass ACE's property and casualty insurance operations in the United States, Canada and Bermuda, Mr. Dowd will now assume corporatewide executive responsibility for the ACE Group's global product underwriting boards and the strategy and purchase of the company's reinsurance programs.
"We are pleased to name Brian vice chairman in recognition of the major contributions he has made to our company and to acknowledge the important role he will continue to play in our company's further growth and development," said Evan G. Greenberg, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, ACE Limited. "We have benefited greatly from Brian's leadership, underwriting judgment and thoughtful approach to building our North American franchise. I consider Brian, together with John Keogh, who heads our international insurance operations, my senior partners in running ACE's global insurance business."
Mr. Dowd joined ACE in 1995 and has held a number of senior management positions with the company including President and Chief Executive Officer of ACE Westchester, President of ACE Specialty P&C Group, Senior Vice President of Property for ACE Bermuda and, most recently, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ACE USA.
The ACE Group is a global leader in insurance and reinsurance serving a diverse group of clients. Headed by ACE Limited, the ACE Group conducts its business on a worldwide basis with operating subsidiaries in more than 50 countries. Additional information can be found at: .
www.acelimited.com
 


