FILE:ACE/ACE-8K-20100521164249.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) At the company's 2010 annual general meeting, the company's shareholders approved the ACE Limited 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended through the fifth amendment (the "LTIP"). As a result, the total number of shares reserved for delivery under the LTIP increased by 11.6 million shares. A more complete description of the LTIP is contained in Company's proxy statement dated April 5, 2010, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the heading "Approval of ACE Limited 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan as Amended through the Fifth Amendment," which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. For the full text of the LTIP, see Exhibit 10 hereto, which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.03 Amendment to the Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
At the company's 2010 annual general meeting, the company's shareholders approved amendments to its Articles of Association relating to the treatment of abstentions and broker non-votes and relating to authorized share capital, as further described in the company's proxy statement dated April 5, 2010. The company's amended and restated Articles of Association containing these amendments will become effective with publication in the Swiss Commercial Gazette, retroactive to their registration in the daily register of the Canton of Zurich, Switzerland on May 20, 2010. A copy of the amended and restated Articles of Association is attached hereto as Exhibit 3 and incorporated herein by reference.
At the company's 2010 annual general meeting, the company's shareholders also approved amendments to the company's Articles of Association in conjunction with their approval of payments of a dividend in the form of distribution through par value reduction, as further described in the company's proxy statement dated April 5, 2010. Those amendments to the Articles of Association will become effective with the registration of each quarterly par value reduction in the Swiss Commercial Register.
 
The company convened its annual general meeting of shareholders on May 19, 2010 pursuant to notice duly given. The matters voted upon at the meeting and the results of such voting are set forth below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: May 21, 2010
 

EXHIBIT 3
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 10
1.1. . The ACE Limited 2004 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "Plan") has been established by ACE Limited (the "Company") to (i) attract and retain persons eligible to participate in the Plan; (ii) motivate Participants, by means of appropriate incentives, to achieve long-range goals; (iii) provide incentive compensation opportunities that are competitive with those of other similar companies; and (iv) further identify Participants' interests with those of the Company's other shareholders through compensation that is based on the Company's shares of common stock; and thereby promote the long-term financial interest of the Company and the Subsidiaries, including the growth in value of the Company's equity and enhancement of long-term shareholder return.
Purpose
1.2. . Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, the Committee shall determine and designate, from time to time, from among the Eligible Individuals (including transferees of Eligible Individuals to the extent the transfer is permitted by the Plan and the applicable Award Agreement), those persons who will be granted one or more Awards under the Plan, and thereby become "Participants" in the Plan.
Participation
1.3. . The operation and administration of the Plan, including the Awards made under the Plan, shall be subject to the provisions of Section 5 (relating to operation and administration). Capitalized terms in the Plan shall be defined as set forth in the Plan (including the definition provisions of Section 9).
Operation, Administration, and Definitions
2.1. .
Definitions
 
 
2.2. . The "Exercise Price" of each Option and SAR granted under this Section 2 shall be established by the Committee or shall be determined by a method established by the Committee at the time the Option or SAR is granted. The Exercise Price shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of grant (or, if greater, the par value of a share of Stock).
Exercise Price
2.3. . An Option and an SAR shall be exercisable in accordance with such terms and conditions and during such periods as may be established by the Committee. In no event, however, shall an Option or SAR expire later than ten years after the date of its grant.
Exercise
 
2.4. . The payment of the Exercise Price of an Option granted under this Section 2 shall be subject to the following:
Payment of Option Exercise Price
 
 
 
2.5. . Settlement of Options and SARs is subject to subsection 5.7.
Settlement of Award
2.6. . Except for either adjustments pursuant to paragraph 5.2(f) (relating to the adjustment of shares), or reductions of the Exercise Price approved by the Company's shareholders, the Exercise Price for any outstanding Option or SAR may not be decreased after the date of grant nor may an outstanding Option or SAR granted under the Plan be surrendered to the Company as consideration for the grant of a replacement Option or SAR with a lower Exercise Price.
No Repricing
2.7. . An Option may but need not be in tandem with an SAR, and an SAR may but need not be in tandem with an Option. If an Option is in tandem with an SAR, the Exercise Price of both the Option and SAR shall be the same, and the exercise of the Option or SAR with respect to a share of Stock shall cancel the corresponding tandem SAR or Option right with respect to such share. If an SAR is in tandem with an Option but is granted after the grant of the Option, or if an Option is in tandem with an SAR but is granted after the grant of the SAR, the later granted tandem Award shall have the same Exercise Price as the earlier granted Award, but the Exercise Price for the later granted Award may be less than the Fair Market Value of the Stock at the time of such grant.
Grants of Options and SARs
3.1. . A "Full Value" Award is a grant of one or more shares of Stock or a right to receive one or more shares of Stock in the future, with such grant subject to one or more of the following, as determined by the Committee:
Definition
 
 
 
The grant of Full Value Awards may also be subject to such other conditions, restrictions and contingencies, as determined by the Committee.
 
3.2. .
Restrictions on Awards
 
 
A Cash Incentive Award is the grant of a right to receive a payment of cash (or in the discretion of the Committee, Stock having value equivalent to the cash otherwise payable) that is contingent on achievement of performance or other objectives over a specified period established by the Committee. The grant of Cash Incentive Awards may also be subject to such other conditions, restrictions and contingencies, as determined by the Committee. The Committee may designate a Cash Incentive Award granted to any Participant as "performance-based compensation" as that term is used in section 162(m) of the Code. To the extent required by Code section 162(m), any such Award so designated shall be conditioned on the achievement of one or more performance objectives. The performance objectives shall be based on Performance Measures as selected by the Committee. For Awards under this Section 4 intended to be "performance-based compensation," the grant of the Awards and the establishment of the performance objectives shall be made during the period required under Code section 162(m). Except as otherwise provided in the applicable plan or arrangement, distribution of any cash incentive awards by the Company or its Subsidiaries (whether granted this Plan or otherwise), for a performance period ending in a calendar year, shall be made to the Participant not later than March 15 of the following calendar year; provided, however, that for purposes of determining compliance with Code section 409A, a payment will be considered to satisfy the requirement of this sentence if distribution is made no later than the end of the calendar year following the end of the applicable performance period.
5.1. . Subject to the approval of the shareholders of the Company at the Company's 2004 annual meeting of its shareholders, the Plan shall be effective as of February 25, 2004 (the "Effective Date"); provided, however, that, to the extent not prohibited by applicable law or the applicable rules of any stock exchange, Awards may be granted contingent on approval of the Plan by the shareholders of the Company at such annual meeting. The Plan shall be unlimited in duration and, in the event of Plan termination, shall remain in effect as long as any Awards under it are outstanding; provided, however, that no Awards may be granted under the Plan on or after the ten-year anniversary of February 24, 2010, which is the date on which the Plan was amended by the Fifth Amendment.
Effective Date
 
5.2. . The shares of Stock for which Awards may be granted under the Plan shall be subject to the following:
Shares and Other Amounts Subject to Plan
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
5.3. . Delivery of shares of Stock or other amounts under the Plan shall be subject to the following:
General Restrictions
 
 
5.4. . All distributions under the Plan are subject to withholding of all applicable taxes, and the Committee may condition the delivery of any shares or other benefits under the Plan on satisfaction of the applicable withholding obligations. Except as otherwise provided by the Committee, such withholding obligations may be satisfied (i) through cash payment by the Participant; (ii) through the surrender of shares of Stock which the Participant already owns (provided, however, that to the extent shares described in this clause (ii) are used to satisfy more than the minimum statutory withholding obligation, as described below, then, except as otherwise provided by the Committee, payments made with shares of Stock in accordance with this clause (ii) shall be limited to shares held by the Participant for not less than six months prior to the payment date); or (iii) through the surrender of shares of Stock to which the Participant is otherwise entitled under the Plan, provided, however, that such shares under this clause (iii) may be used to satisfy not more than the Company's minimum statutory withholding obligation (based on minimum statutory withholding rates for Federal and state tax purposes, including payroll taxes, that are applicable to such supplemental taxable income).
Tax Withholding
5.5. . In the discretion of the Committee, a Participant may be granted any Award permitted under the provisions of the Plan, and more than one Award may be granted to a Participant. Awards may be granted as alternatives to or replacement of awards granted or outstanding under the Plan, or any other plan or arrangement of the Company or a Subsidiary (including a plan or arrangement of a business or entity, all or a portion of which is acquired by the Company or a Subsidiary). Subject to the overall limitation on the number of shares of Stock that may be delivered under the Plan, the Committee may use available shares of Stock as the form of payment for compensation, grants or rights earned or due under any other compensation plans or arrangements of the Company or a Subsidiary, including the plans and arrangements of the Company or a Subsidiary assumed in business combinations. Notwithstanding the provisions of subsection 2.2, Options and SARs granted under the Plan in replacement for awards under plans and arrangements of the Company or a Subsidiary assumed in business combinations may provide for Exercise Prices that are less than the Fair Market Value of the Stock at the time of the replacement grants, if the Committee determines that such Exercise Price is appropriate to preserve the economic benefit of the award. The provisions of this subsection shall be subject to the provisions of subsection 5.16.
Grant and Use of Awards
 
5.6. . An Award (including without limitation an Option or SAR Award) may provide the Participant with the right to receive dividend or dividend equivalent payments with respect to Stock subject to the Award (both before and after the Stock subject to the Award is earned, vested, or acquired), which payments may be either made currently or credited to an account for the Participant, and may be settled in cash or Stock, as determined by the Committee. Any such settlements, and any such crediting of dividends or dividend equivalents or reinvestment in shares of Stock, may be subject to such conditions, restrictions and contingencies as the Committee shall establish, including the reinvestment of such credited amounts in Stock equivalents. The provisions of this subsection shall be subject to the provisions of subsection 5.16.
Dividends and Dividend Equivalents
5.7. . The obligation to make payments and distributions with respect to Awards may be satisfied through cash payments, the delivery of shares of Stock, the granting of replacement Awards (subject to subsection 2.6), or combination thereof as the Committee shall determine. Satisfaction of any such obligations under an Award, which is sometimes referred to as "settlement" of the Award, may be subject to such conditions, restrictions and contingencies as the Committee shall determine. The Committee may permit or require the deferral of any Award payment, subject to such rules and procedures as it may establish, which may include provisions for the payment or crediting of interest or dividend equivalents, and may include converting such credits into deferred Stock equivalents. Except for Options and SARs designated at the time of grant or otherwise as intended to be subject to Code section 409A, this subsection 5.7 shall not be construed to permit the deferred settlement of Options or SARs, if such settlement would result in deferral of compensation under Treas. Reg. 1.409A-1(b)(5)(i)(A)(3) (except as permitted in paragraphs (i) and (ii) of that section). Each Subsidiary shall be liable for payment of cash due under the Plan with respect to any Participant to the extent that such benefits are attributable to the services rendered for that Subsidiary by the Participant. Any disputes relating to liability of a Subsidiary for cash payments shall be resolved by the Committee. The provisions of this subsection shall be subject to the provisions of subsection 5.16.
Settlement of Awards
5.8. . Awards under the Plan are not transferable except as designated by the Participant by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and except for transfers without consideration to the extent permitted by the Committee.
Transferability
5.9. . Unless otherwise specified herein, each election required or permitted to be made by any Participant or other person entitled to benefits under the Plan, and any permitted modification, or revocation thereof, shall be in writing filed with the Committee at such times, in such form, and subject to such restrictions and limitations, not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, as the Committee shall require.
Form and Time of Elections
5.10. . An Award under the Plan shall be subject to such terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the Plan, as the Committee shall, in its sole discretion, prescribe. The terms and conditions of any Award to any Participant shall be reflected in such form of written (including electronic) document as is determined by the Committee. A copy of such document shall be provided to the Participant, and the Committee may, but need not require that the Participant sign a copy of such document. Such document is referred to in the Plan as an "Award Agreement" regardless of whether any Participant signature is required.
Agreement With Company
5.11. . Any action required or permitted to be taken by the Company or any Subsidiary shall be by resolution of its board of directors, or by action of one or more members of the board (including a committee of the board) who are duly authorized to act for the board, or (except to the extent prohibited by applicable law or applicable rules of any stock exchange) by a duly authorized officer of such company.
Action by Company or Subsidiary
5.12. . Where the context admits, words in any gender shall include any other gender, words in the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular.
Gender and Number
 
5.13. .
Limitation of Implied Rights
 
 
5.14. . Except as otherwise provided by the Committee, Awards to a Participant (including the grant and the receipt of benefits) under the Plan shall be disregarded for purposes of determining the Participant's benefits under any Qualified Retirement Plan and other plans maintained by the Participant's employer. The term "Qualified Retirement Plan" means any plan of the Company or a Subsidiary that is intended to be qualified under section 401(a) of the Code.
Benefits Under Qualified Retirement Plans
5.15. . Evidence required of anyone under the Plan may be by certificate, affidavit, document or other information which the person acting on it considers pertinent and reliable, and signed, made or presented by the proper party or parties.
Evidence
5.16. . The provisions of the Plan shall be subject to the following:
Limitations under Section 409A
 
 
 
Subject to the provisions of paragraph 5.2(f) (relating to the adjustment of shares), the occurrence of a Change in Control shall have the effect, if any, with respect to any Award as set forth in the Award Agreement or, to the extent not prohibited by the Plan or the Award Agreement, as provided by the Committee.
 
7.1. . The authority to control and manage the operation and administration of the Plan shall be vested in a committee (the "Committee") in accordance with this Section 7. The Committee shall be selected by the Board, and shall consist solely of two or more members of the Board. If the Committee does not exist, or for any other reason determined by the Board, and to the extent not prohibited by applicable law or the applicable rules of any stock exchange, the Board may take any action under the Plan that would otherwise be the responsibility of the Committee.
Administration
7.2. . The Committee's administration of the Plan shall be subject to the following:
Powers of Committee
 
 
 
 
 
7.3. . Except to the extent prohibited by applicable law or the applicable rules of a stock exchange, the Committee may allocate all or any portion of its responsibilities and powers to any one or more of its members and may delegate all or any part of its responsibilities and powers to any person or persons selected by it. Any such allocation or delegation may be revoked by the Committee at any time.
Delegation by Committee
7.4. . The Company and Subsidiaries shall furnish the Committee with such data and information as it determines may be required for it to discharge its duties. The records of the Company and Subsidiaries as to an employee's or Participant's employment (or other provision of services), termination of employment (or cessation of the provision of services), leave of absence, reemployment and compensation shall be conclusive on all persons unless determined to be incorrect. Participants and other persons entitled to benefits under the Plan must furnish the Committee such evidence, data or information as the Committee considers desirable to carry out the terms of the Plan.
Information to be Furnished to Committee
 
The Board may, at any time, amend or terminate the Plan, and may amend any Award Agreement, provided that no amendment or termination may, in the absence of written consent to the change by the affected Participant (or, if the Participant is not then living, the affected beneficiary), adversely affect the rights of any Participant or beneficiary under any Award granted under the Plan prior to the date such amendment is adopted by the Board; and further provided that adjustments pursuant to paragraph 5.2(f) shall not be subject to the foregoing limitations of this Section 8; and further provided that the provisions of subsection 2.6 (relating to Option repricing) cannot be amended unless the amendment is approved by the Company's shareholders. Approval by the Company's shareholders will be required for any material revision to the terms of the Plan, with the Committee's determination of "material revision" to take into account the exemptions under the rules of the New York Stock Exchange. No amendment or termination shall be adopted or effective if it would result in accelerated recognition of income or imposition of additional tax under Code section 409A or, except as otherwise provided in the amendment, would cause amounts that were not otherwise subject to Code section 409A to become subject to section 409A.
In addition to the other definitions contained herein, the following definitions shall apply:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


