FILE:ACE/ACE-8K-20100302145807.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 24, 2010, the Board of Directors amended the indemnification provisions set forth in Article 19 of the Company's Organizational Regulations. A copy of the amended and restated Organizational Regulations is attached hereto as Exhibit 3 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: March 2, 2010
 

Exhibit 3
Contents
 
 
 
 
 
The board of directors of ACE Limited, Switzerland, ("") issues the following organizational regulations ("") based on art. 716b CO and art. 19 of the articles of association of ACE Limited ("").
Company
Organizational Regulations
Articles of Association
 
The Organizational Regulations define the organization and responsibilities of the executive bodies, i.e. the board of directors and its members (""), its committees and its chairman, the delegate of the board of directors and the chief executive officer as well as the executive management of the Company and its subsidiaries (together with the Company the ""). They implement and supplement applicable law and the Articles of Association by establishing binding rules regarding the organization of the Group and its overall management.
Board Members
Group
 
The executive bodies of the Company are:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Board of Directors is entitled to pass resolutions on all matters which are not delegated to, or reserved for, the shareholders meeting or another body of the Company by law, the Articles of Association or the Organizational Regulations.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Board of Directors has the following further powers and responsibilities with regard to the Company and the Group:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Board of Directors delegates the management of the Company and the Group to the Chief Executive Officer and the other members of the Executive Management as provided for by these Organizational Regulations.
Board Members will have complete and open access to the Chief Executive Officer, chief financial officer, general counsel, chief compliance officer and the head of internal audit.
 
The Board of Directors shall elect a Chairman as well as a Lead Director (who also acts as vice-chairman) from amongst its members. The Chairman may also be appointed as the Chief Executive Officer, i.e. the Delegate.
 
The Board of Directors shall appoint a Secretary (a person keeping the minutes and assisting in the preparation of board meetings) who need not to be a member of the Board of Directors.
 
 
 
 
In case of urgency shorter notice periods are permitted. If all Board Members are present and agree, deviations from these formal requirements are permitted; in particular, decisions can be taken that are not mentioned on the agenda.
Furthermore, these formal requirements do not have to be observed, if a meeting is only convened in order to record the implementation of a capital increase, to pass resolutions regarding the amendments of the Articles of Association entailed therewith and to adopt the report on the capital increase.
 
 
 
 
A quorum of Board Members shall not be required in order to record the implementation of a capital increase, to pass resolutions regarding the amendments of the Articles of Association entailed therewith and to adopt the report on the capital increase.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Board of Directors shall submit nominations of new Board Members for election at the shareholders meeting that ensure an adequate size and well-balanced composition of the Board of Directors and further ensure that a majority of the Board Members are independent within applicable legal and stock exchange requirements.
 
 
 
The Chairman shall preside over the shareholders meeting. Together with the person keeping the minutes, he/she shall sign the minutes of the shareholders meeting.
The Chairman has the right to call in third parties as advisors in meetings of the Board of Directors.
 
 
If the Chairman of the Board of Directors is prevented from performing his/her duties, they shall be performed by the Lead Director.
 
The Board of Directors shall appoint a Lead Director, who shall have the following responsibilities, together with such others as the Board of Directors might from time to time specify:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each Committee is constituted by a chairman and at least one further member, each appointed by the Board of Directors among its members.
 
The term of a membership in a Committee is one year upon appointment.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Audit Committee shall receive and review periodically, but not less than annually, a report of the Company's chief actuary on the Company's loss and loss expense reserves, including any reports of outside actuaries.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Meetings of the executive committee ("") are convened in accordance with Clause 5.4. Additionally, the Delegate and the Chief Executive Officer may request a meeting.
Executive Committee
 
In case of urgencies, the Executive Committee is to exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the ultimate management of the business and affairs of the Company between the meetings of the Board of Directors, except (a) as limited by Clause 2.1, the Company's Articles of Association, rules of the New York Stock Exchange or applicable law or regulation and (b) matters that are specifically reserved for another Committee of the Board of Directors.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Nominating and Governance Committee is to assist the Board of Directors in (1) identifying individuals qualified to become Board Members, and recommending to the Board Members nominees for the next annual general shareholders meeting or to fill vacancies; and (2) developing and recommending to the Board of Directors corporate governance guidelines for the Group.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Risk Committee helps execute the Board's supervisory responsibilities pertaining to enterprise risk management. This includes (a)   evaluation of the integrity and effectiveness of the Company's enterprise risk management procedures and systems and information, (b)  oversight of policy decisions pertaining to risk aggregation and minimization, including credit risk, and (c) assessment of the Company's major decisions and preparedness levels pertaining to perceived material risks.
cognitive
strategic 
tactical 
As an insurer, the Company is in the business of risk management for profit. As a result, enterprise risk management cannot be separated from the day-to-day management of the Company and its business. Because risk management must permeate an organization conducting insurance businesses around the world, the Company has established an enterprise risk management process that is integrated into its management structure and is led by the senior managers of the Company.
The mission of the Risk Committee of the Board of Directors is to understand, advise about, and oversee the Company's risk management process to assure that it functions correctly in all material respects. The goal is to assure that the process perceives risk well (cognition), has a reasonable and sound set of policies for setting parameters on risk (strategy), and, for specific material risks, has prepared itself to avoid or to mitigate outcomes that threaten the viability of the Company (tactics).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Risk Committee shall consist of at least three directors, including a chairman, each selected by the Board, upon the recommendation of the Nominating & Governance Committee. Any committee member may be removed by the Board upon the recommendation of the Nominating & Governance Committee.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Board of Directors may designate one or more additional committees, each such committee to consist of such person or persons as may be designated by the Board of Directors. Except as expressly limited by law or by the Company's Articles of Association or by resolution of the Board of Directors, any such committee shall have and may exercise such powers and adopt such procedures as the Board of Directors may determine and specify in the resolution designating such committee.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
In case of urgency shorter notice periods are permitted. If all members of the Executive Management are present and agree, deviations from these formal requirements are permitted; in particular, decisions can be taken that are not mentioned on the agenda.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Group internal audit ("") shall examine and evaluate the adequacy and effectiveness of the Group's internal control environment, and the quality of performance in carrying out assigned responsibilities to achieve the Group's goals and objectives.
Group Internal Audit
In fulfilling its responsibilities, Group Internal Audit shall:
 
 
 
 
 
The organizational structure of Group Internal Audit and resource requirements necessary for Group Internal Audit to perform its activities shall be defined by the head of Group Internal Audit and submitted to the Audit Committee for approval. The head of Group Internal Audit shall review and approve all new hires and terminations of staff.
 
Group Internal Audit shall adhere to the Group's guidelines and procedures and Group Internal Audit's organization and processes manuals and guidelines or to such other standards as required by applicable law or regulation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Board Members as well as all other executive bodies and employees are obliged to maintain secrecy towards third parties regarding all facts they obtain knowledge of during the performance of their duties. These duties of non-disclosure survive the termination of the relationship of the respective individual with the Company.
 
Upon termination of the relationship with the Company all business files must be returned with the exception of documents used by a Board Member to follow-up his/her own actions.
 
The business year of the Company starts on 1 January and ends on 31 December.
 
 
These Organizational Regulations shall enter into force on the date of adoption by the Board of Directors; be it in a meeting or by circular resolution.
 
These Organizational Regulations shall be reviewed and if necessary amended on a regular basis by the Board of Directors.
 
The Company shall indemnify, in accordance with and to the full extent now or hereafter permitted by law, any member of the Board of Directors or officer of the Company who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding (including, without limitation, an action by or in the right of the Company), by reason of his acting as a director or officer of the Company, against any liability or expense actually and reasonably incurred by such person in respect thereof. The Company shall advance the expenses of defending any such act, suit or proceeding in accordance with and to the full extent now or hereafter permitted by law. Such indemnification and advancement of expenses are not exclusive of any other right to indemnification or advancement of expenses provided by law or otherwise.
The Board of Directors may authorize the Company to purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company, or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee or agent of another company, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, or in a fiduciary or other capacity with respect to any employee benefit plan maintained by the Company, against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him in any such capacity, or arising out of his status as such, whether or not the Company would have the power to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of this Article 19.
 
February 24, 2010
The Chairman of the Board of Directors:
/s/ Evan G. Greenberg
 
 
 


