FILE:ACE/ACE-8K-20100914165447.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On September 14, 2010, ACE American Insurance Company, a Pennsylvania domestic stock insurance company ("ACE American") and an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of ACE Limited ("ACE"), Raha Iowa Acquisition Corp., an Iowa corporation ("Merger Sub") and a wholly owned subsidiary of ACE American, and for certain limited purposes, ACE, entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "Merger Agreement") with Rain and Hail Insurance Service, Inc., an Iowa corporation ("Rain & Hail") and Steve C. Harms, as the shareholders' representative, pursuant to which Merger Sub will be merged with and into Rain & Hail (the "Merger"), with Rain & Hail continuing as the surviving corporation and as a wholly owned subsidiary of ACE American. In the Merger, each outstanding share of common stock (the "Common Stock") of Rain & Hail (other than those shares of Common Stock held by ACE American or Rain & Hail or any of their respective wholly owned subsidiaries), will be converted into the right to receive cash. The aggregate value of the cash consideration payable in the Merger is approximately $1.1 billion, based upon current estimates of Rain & Hail's December 31, 2010 adjusted book value. ACE American currently owns approximately 20% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock.
The Merger is anticipated to be completed in the fourth quarter of 2010, subject to the satisfaction of customary conditions, including the expiration or termination of the Hart-Scott-Rodino waiting period and the approvals of certain regulatory authorities. The Merger Agreement also contains customary covenants and agreements, including, among other things, with respect to the operation of the business of Rain & Hail and its subsidiaries between the signing of the Merger Agreement and the closing of the Merger and restrictions on the solicitation of alternative acquisition proposals by Rain & Hail. In addition, the transaction is subject to approval by the holders of the outstanding shares of Common Stock. Approximately 35% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock are owned by Rain & Hail's employee stock ownership plan. Consummation of the Merger does not require the approval of ACE's shareholders and is not conditioned on receipt of financing by ACE.
The Merger Agreement contains customary representations and warranties. The representations and warranties contained in the Merger Agreement will generally survive until December 28, 2011. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, following the consummation of the Merger, ACE is entitled to indemnification for, among other things, breaches of representations and warranties subject to a deductible and an aggregate cap.
Either ACE or Rain & Hail may terminate the Merger Agreement if the closing does not occur by June 30, 2011. In connection with the termination of the Merger Agreement under specified circumstances, Rain & Hail will be required to pay ACE American a termination fee equal to $50 million.
In connection with the Merger Agreement, ACE American entered into support agreements with certain shareholders of Rain & Hail pursuant to which such shareholders have committed, among other things, to vote the shares of Common Stock beneficially owned by them, which represent, in the aggregate, approximately 17% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock, in favor of the Merger.
The foregoing summary of the Merger Agreement and the Merger does not purport to be a complete description and is subject to, and qualified in its entirety by, the full text of the Merger Agreement, a copy of which will be filed as an exhibit to ACE's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ending September 30, 2010.
 
On September 14, 2010, ACE issued a press release announcing the execution of the Merger Agreement referred to in Item 1.01 above. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: September 14, 2010

Exhibit 99.1
ZURICH  September 14, 2010  ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE) announced today that it has signed a definitive agreement to acquire all of the outstanding common stock of Rain and Hail Insurance Service, Inc. not currently owned by ACE for approximately $1.1 billion in cash. A pioneer in crop insurance that has served America's farmers since 1919, Rain and Hail, headquartered in Johnston, Iowa, is the second largest crop insurance underwriter, providing comprehensive multiple peril crop and crop-hail insurance protection to customers in the U.S. and Canada.
ACE currently owns approximately 20% of the outstanding common stock of Rain and Hail, which will continue to operate as a separate and distinct franchise within the company's ACE Westchester division and Insurance-North America operations.
"This transaction is a natural extension of our long-term, valued relationship with Rain and Hail and our company's specialty lines focus," said Evan G. Greenberg, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, ACE Limited. "Rain and Hail is a leader in the crop insurance business, and over the course of our relationship with them, we have been impressed by their best-in-class management team and the strength and reputation of their franchise across North America.
"The addition of Rain and Hail to the ACE Group is financially attractive to our shareholders and will produce results that are immediately accretive to our earnings, return on equity and book value per share," said Mr. Greenberg. "This is a business we know well, and we project a return on capital in excess of our 15% hurdle rate."
The transaction, which is subject to regulatory approvals, the approval of Rain and Hail shareholders and other customary conditions, is expected to be completed by the end of 2010. The purchase price is subject to adjustment to reflect the book value of Rain and Hail as of December 31, 2010. ACE expects to fund the merger consideration for the transaction with available cash. Additional information with respect to the transaction is posted on the Company's website in the Investor Information section. The URL reference is: http://media.corporate-ir.net/media_files/irol/10/100907/Sept2010.pdf.
Celebrating 25 years of insuring progress, the ACE Group is a global leader in insurance and reinsurance serving a diverse group of clients. Headed by ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE), a component of the S&P 500 stock index, the ACE Group conducts its business on a worldwide basis with operating subsidiaries in more than 50 countries. Additional information can be found at: www.acegroup.com.
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements:
All forward-looking statements made in this press release, related to the anticipated acquisition of Rain and Hail Insurance Service, Inc. or otherwise, reflect ACE's current views with respect to future events, business transactions and business performance and are made pursuant to the
safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in these statements. For example, ACE's forward-looking statements related to Rain and Hail Insurance Service, Inc. and the anticipated acquisition could prove incorrect if the transaction were to not close, if Rain and Hail Insurance Service, Inc. and its subsidiaries were to perform differently than currently expected by ACE or if anticipated expense-related efficiencies are not realized. More generally, the businesses of ACE and Rain and Hail Insurance Service, Inc. could be affected by competition, pricing and policy term trends, the levels of new and renewal business achieved, the frequency of unpredictable catastrophic events, actual loss experience, uncertainties in the reserving or settlement process, integration activities and performance of acquired companies, new theories of liability, judicial, legislative, regulatory and other governmental developments, litigation tactics and developments, investigation developments and actual settlement terms, the amount and timing of reinsurance recoverable, credit developments among reinsurers, rating agency action, possible terrorism or the outbreak and effects of war, and economic, political, regulatory, insurance and reinsurance business conditions, as well as management's response to these factors, and other factors identified in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Contact Information
Investor Contact:
Helen M. Wilson
(441) 299-9283
helen.wilson@acegroup.com
Media Contact:
Stephen M. Wasdick
(212) 827-4444
stephen.wasdick@acegroup.com


