FILE:ACE/ACE-8K-20111025172643.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 25, 2011, ACE Limited issued a press release reporting its third quarter 2011 results and the availability of its third quarter 2011 financial supplement. The press release and the financial supplement are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
DATE: October 25, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE) today reported a net loss for the quarter ended September 30, 2011, of $0.09 per share, compared with net income of $1.97 per share for the same quarter last year;
ZURICH, October 25, 2011
(1)
income excluding net realized gains (losses) was $2.22 per share, compared with $2.01 per share for the same quarter last year.
(2)
Annualized operating return on average equity for the quarter was 13.6%.
(3)
The property and casualty (P&C) combined ratio for the quarter was 90.3%. The quarter was marked by financial market volatility in the credit, equity and foreign exchange markets, which impacted net income and book value. A net realized and unrealized loss contributed to a book value per share decline of 1%. Financial market volatility impacted the company's variable annuity reinsurance business resulting in a net loss of about $660 million, which comprised a realized loss of $706 million related to the change in fair-value liabilities, offset by $45 million in operating income. Book value is up 3% for the year.
 
 
Net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, was $2.45 per share, compared with $6.18 per share for the same period in 2010. For the nine months ended September 30, 2011, income excluding net realized gains (losses) was $5.02 per share, compared with $5.73 per share for 2010. Book value increased $776 million, up 3% from December 31, 2010. The P&C combined ratio for the nine months ended September 30, 2011, was 95.2%.
 
 
 
Evan G. Greenberg, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ACE Limited, commented: "ACE had outstanding operating results in what were very difficult financial market conditions. All principal businesses performed well and contributed positively to the operating results in the quarter. Revenue increased 31% and after-tax operating income was $759 million, up 10% and a record for our company. Our performance in the quarter was led by excellent current accident year underwriting results that benefited from both underwriting discipline and risk management. We also had strong contributions from our recent acquisitions and very good growth in investment income driven by portfolio construction and positive cash flow. The strength of our well-balanced portfolio of businesses was in evidence, including commercial P&C globally, personal accident and life, crop and our global presence, particularly in faster growing regions such as Asia and Latin America.
 
"As a result of an historic drop in interest rates  the lowest level in over 100 years  and an equity market correction driven by Federal Reserve action and a flight to safety by investors, we incurred a substantial charge to book value from a negative mark to market in our variable annuity reinsurance business and our corporate fixed income investment portfolio. In our judgment, the majority of this mark will be transient and will reverse over time making a positive contribution to book value in future quarters.
 
"ACE is in excellent shape and we remain quite confident about our prospects for the fourth quarter and beyond."
 
Operating highlights for the quarter ended September 30, 2011, were as follows:
(1)
 
 
 
Details of our financial results for our business segments are available in the ACE Limited Financial Supplement. Key segment items for the quarter ended September 30, 2011, include:
 
 
Please refer to the ACE Limited dated September 30, 2011, which is posted on our website in the Investor Information section, and access Financial Reports for more detailed information on individual segment performance, together with additional disclosure on reinsurance recoverable, loss reserves, investment portfolio and capital structure.
Financial Supplement,
 
The company is increasing earnings guidance for full-year 2011. Operating income after tax is now expected to range between $6.55 and $6.75 per share for the full year. This includes $630 million after tax in catastrophe losses for the first three quarters, plus $75 million after tax in catastrophe losses for the fourth quarter. The guidance also includes $335 million of after-tax positive prior period development reflected in the first three quarters. There is no prior period development included in our guidance for the fourth quarter.
 
ACE will host its third quarter earnings conference call and webcast on Wednesday, October 26, 2011, beginning at 8:30 a.m. Eastern. The earnings conference call will be available via live and archived webcast at or by dialing 800-967-7185 (within the United States) or 719-457-2654 (international); passcode 9247852. Please refer to the ACE Limited website in the Investor Information section under Calendar of Events for details. A replay of the call will be available for approximately one month. To listen to the replay, dial: 888-203-1112 (in the United States) or 719-457-0820 (international); passcode 9247852.
www.acegroup.com
 
The ACE Group is a global leader in insurance and reinsurance serving a diverse group of clients. Headed by ACE Limited (NYSE:ACE), a component of the S&P 500 stock index, the ACE Group conducts its business on a worldwide basis with operating subsidiaries in more than 50 countries. Additional information can be found at:
www.acegroup.com
 
(1)
All comparisons are with the same period last year unless specifically stated.
(2)
Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
 
is a common performance measurement for insurance companies. We believe this presentation enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. We exclude net realized gains (losses) and net realized gains (losses) included in Other income (expense) related to partially-owned entities because the amounts of these gains (losses) do not relate to their respective operations.
Operating Income or Income excluding net realized gains (losses), net of tax
 
is calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, policy benefits, policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting income and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including net investment income, other income (expense), interest and income tax expense and net realized gains (losses). Life underwriting income includes net investment income and gains (losses) from separate account assets that do not qualify for separate account reporting under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). We believe the use of these measures enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business.
Underwriting income
 
See reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures on page 23 in the financial supplement. These measures should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with GAAP.
 
(3)
Calculated using income excluding net realized gains (losses) divided by average shareholders' equity for the period excluding unrealized gains (losses) on investments and the deferred tax component included in shareholders' equity. To annualize a quarterly rate, multiply by four.
 
(4)
Book value per common share is shareholders' equity divided by the shares outstanding. Tangible book value per common share is shareholders' equity less goodwill and other intangible assets divided by the shares outstanding.
 
(5)
For the three months ended September 30, 2011, weighted-average shares outstanding used in calculating net loss per share excludes the effect of dilutive securities of 2,464,705 shares. In periods where a net loss is recognized, inclusion of incremental dilution is anti-dilutive.
 
NM  not meaningful comparison
 
:
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
Forward-looking statements made in this press release, such as those related to company performance and guidance, recent corporate developments and acquisitions, our products and product mix, economic outlook and insurance market conditions, reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in these statements. For example, our forward-looking statements could be affected by competition, pricing and policy term trends, the levels of new and renewal business achieved, the frequency of unpredictable catastrophic events, actual loss experience, uncertainties in the reserving or settlement process, integration activities and performance of acquired companies, new theories of liability, judicial, legislative, regulatory and other governmental developments, litigation tactics and developments, investigation developments and actual settlement terms, the amount and timing of reinsurance recoverable, credit developments among reinsurers, rating agency action, possible terrorism or the outbreak and effects of war, and economic, political, regulatory, insurance and reinsurance business conditions, as well as management's response to these factors, and other factors identified in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated Constant Dollar
 
 
 
 
Insurance - North American
 
 
 
 
Insurance - Overseas General
 
 
 
 
Global Reinsurance
 
 
 
 
Life
 
 
 
 
Explanation:
This exhibit shows the annual ranges of operating income and net income/book value accretion associated with the variable annuity reinsurance business for the next three years under two different interest rate assumptions. The upper table reflects expected interest rates currently used by the company to determine reserves for operating income purposes; the lower table reflects operating income using the "fair value" model interest rates required by derivatives accounting. Both tables use the same equity level assumptions used in the company's calculation of operating income.
Notes:
 
 
Assumptions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Reinsurance Recoverable by Division
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage-backed Fixed Income Portfolio
Mortgage-backed securities
 
total $13.8 billion, are rated predominantly AA and comprise 26% of the fixed income portfolio. This compares to a 35% mortgage-backed weighting in representative indices of the U.S. fixed income market. The minimum rating for initial purchases of mortgage-backed securities is AA for agency mortgages and AAA for non-agency mortgages.
Mortgage-backed securities
with implied or explicit government guarantees total $11.6 billion and represent 93% of the residential mortgage-backed portfolio.
Securities issued by Federal agencies
are backed by prime collateral, and broadly diversified in over 130,000 loans. The portfolio's original loan-to-value ratio is approximately 69% with an average FICO score of 730. With this conservative loan-to-value ratio and subordinated collateral of 9%, the cumulative 5-year foreclosure rate would have to rise to 13% and real estate values would have to fall 12% from their current levels before principal is impaired. The current foreclosure rate of ACE's non-agency RMBS portfolio is 9%.
Non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities
of $1.4 billion are rated predominantly AAA, broadly diversified with over 15,000 loans and seasoned with 64% of the portfolio issued before 2006 and 23% of the portfolio issued after 2009. The average loan-to-value ratio is approximately 67% with a debt service coverage ratio in excess of 1.6 and weighted average subordinated collateral of 32%. The cumulative foreclosure rate would have to rise to 42% before principal is impaired. The current foreclosure rate of the portfolio is about 2.5%.
Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 
 
U.S. Corporate and Asset-backed Fixed Income Portfolios
 
U.S. Investment Grade Corporate Fixed Income Portfolio
The average credit quality of ACE's US investment grade bond portfolio is high at A.
ACE prohibits investments in complex structured securities (e.g. CDOs, CLOs) and over-the-counter derivatives and does not permit the use of portfolio leverage.
Corporate bond holdings are highly diversified across industries and geographies. Issuer limits are based on credit rating (AA 2%, A 1%, BBB 0.5% of total portfolio) and are monitored on a daily basis by ACE via an internal compliance system.
 
U.S. Below Investment Grade Corporate Fixed Income Portfolio
ACE manages high yield bonds as a distinct and separate asset class from investment grade bonds. ACE's allocation to high yield bonds is explicitly set by internal management and is targeted to securities in the upper tier of credit quality (BB/B). Our minimum rating for initial purchase is BB/B.
Six external investment managers are responsible for high yield security selection and portfolio construction.
ACE's high yield managers have a conservative approach to credit selection and very low historical default experience.
Securities holdings are highly diversified across industries and are subject to a 1.5% issuer limit as a percentage of high yield allocation. The portfolio comprises over 700 issuers with our largest current issuer exposure at $74 million. ACE monitors position limits on a daily basis through an internal compliance system.
Derivative and structured securities (e.g. credit default swaps, CLOs) are not permitted in high yield portfolios.
 
 
Non-U.S. Fixed Income Portfolio
Market Value at September 30, 2011
 
 
Non-U.S. Fixed Income Portfolio
ACE's non-U.S. investment grade fixed income portfolios are currency-matched with the insurance liabilities of ACE's non-U.S. operations.
80% of ACE's non-U.S. fixed income is denominated in G7 currencies.
Average credit quality of non-U.S. fixed income securities is very high at AA and 54% of holdings are rated AAA or guaranteed by governments or quasi-government agencies.
Corporate bond holdings are highly diversified across industries and geographies. Issuer limits are based on credit rating (AA 2%, A 1%, BBB 0.5% of total portfolio) and are monitored on a daily basis by ACE via an internal compliance system.
 
 
Eurozone Non-U.S. Fixed Income Portfolio (Excluding United Kingdom)
 
Note: ACE has no investments in Greece
Top 10 Exposures - Eurozone Banks (Excluding United Kingdom)
 
Top 10 Exposures - Eurozone Corporate (Excluding United Kingdom)
 
 
 
Investment portfolio
Top 25 Exposures - Fixed Maturity Investments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: As of September 30, 2011, there was $1.3 billion usage of credit facilities on a total commitment of $2.4 billion.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulation G - Non-GAAP Financial Measures
In presenting our results, we have included and discussed certain non-GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures, which may be defined differently by other companies, are important for an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, they should not be viewed as a substitute for measures determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). A reconciliation of book value per common share is provided on the next page.
In presenting our segment operating results, we have shown our performance with reference to underwriting results. Underwriting results are calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, policy benefits, policy acquisition costs, and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting results and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including investment income, other income and expenses, interest and income tax expense, and net realized gains (losses). Life underwriting income includes net investment income and gains (losses) from separate account assets that do not qualify for separate account reporting under GAAP.
Income excluding net realized gains (losses) and the related tax expense (benefit) is a common performance measurement and non-GAAP measure. We believe this presentation enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. We exclude net realized gains (losses) and net realized gains (losses) included in other income (expense) related to partially owned entities because the amount of these gains (losses) is heavily influenced by, and fluctuates in part according to, the availability of market opportunities. Income excluding net realized gains (losses) should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with GAAP.
The following table presents the reconciliation of Net income to Income excluding net realized gains (losses):
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Book Value per Common Share
 
 
 
 
comprises all segments including Corporate and Other.
ACE Limited Consolidated
Income excluding net realized gains (losses) divided by average shareholders' equity for the period excluding unrealized gains (losses) on investments and the deferred tax component included in shareholders' equity. To annualize a quarterly rate multiply by four.
Annualized return on ordinary shareholders' equity (ROE):
Shareholders' equity divided by the shares outstanding.
Book value per common share:
Combined Insurance Company of America, acquired April 1, 2008.
Combined Insurance:
The sum of the loss and loss expense ratio, acquisition cost ratio and the administrative expense ratio excluding life business. Calculated on a GAAP basis.
Combined ratio:
Income tax expense divided by the sum of income tax expense and income excluding net realized gains (losses).
Effective tax rate:
A group of seven industrialized nations including Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, United Kingdom, and the United States.
G7:
Net premiums earned and net investment income less policy benefits, acquisition costs, and administrative expenses. In addition, Life underwriting income includes gains/losses from separate account assets that do not qualify for separate account reporting under GAAP.
Life underwriting income:
Not meaningful.
NM:
Shareholders' equity less goodwill and other intangible assets divided by the shares outstanding.
Tangible book value per common share:
Total capitalization less goodwill and other intangible assets.
Tangible capital:
Short-term debt, long-term debt, trust preferreds, and shareholders' equity.
Total capitalization:
 


