FILE:ACE/ACE-8K-20110504172340.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 4, 2011, ACE Limited issued a press release reporting its first quarter 2011 results and the availability of its first quarter 2011 financial supplement. The press release and the financial supplement are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
DATE: May 4, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE) today reported net income for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, of $0.76 per share, compared with $2.22 per share for the same quarter last year.
ZURICH, May 4, 2011
(1)
Income excluding net realized gains (losses) was $0.79 per share, compared with $1.70 per share for the same quarter last year.
(2)
Net after-tax catastrophe losses for the first quarter of 2011 were $443 million, including reinstatement premiums, or $1.30 per share, compared with $149 million, or $0.44 per share, for the first quarter of 2010. Book value increased $402 million, or 2%, during the quarter. Book value per share of $69.33 and tangible book value per share of $55.31 were up 1% from December 31, 2010. Annualized operating return on average equity for the quarter was 4.9%.
(3)
The property and casualty (P&C) combined ratio for the quarter was 105.0%.
 
 
Evan G. Greenberg, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ACE Limited, commented: "ACE had a very good quarter that was overshadowed by significant catastrophe losses. We produced $268 million in operating income and grew book value 2%. Our ROE and combined ratio were 4.9% and 105%, respectively. Excluding the catastrophe loss impact, our book value growth, ROE and current accident year combined ratio were 4%, 13%, and 91.8%, respectively. I believe this speaks to the health of our business, the strength of our risk management and the benefit of our broadly diversified business.
 
"Our revenue growth was better than we originally anticipated when we planned the year and the renewal persistency of our business was excellent. We also benefited in the quarter from positive client payroll and sales growth due to improved economic conditions. Finally, rates for our renewal business declined at the slowest pace we have experienced in a number of quarters.
 
"We are more confident today about our prospects for full-year premium growth than we were last quarter and now believe growth will be between upper single-digit and low double-digit. Not included in our projections, if markets firm in any individual geography or class as a result of the catastrophes and reach a point where we find the risk-reward attractive, we are well positioned to take advantage."
 
Operating highlights for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, were as follows:
(1
)
 
 
Details of the financial results for the company's business segments are available in the ACE Limited Financial Supplement. Key segment items for the quarter ended March 31, 2011, include:
 
 
In light of the level of first quarter catastrophe losses, the company is adjusting guidance for the year. Operating income is now expected to range between $5.40 and $5.70 per share for the full year. This includes $443 million in catastrophe losses for the first quarter, plus $250 million in catastrophe losses for the balance of the year. The guidance also includes $74 million of after-tax positive prior period development reflected in the first quarter as well as an adjustment for the estimated increase to the investment income run rate.
 
Please refer to the ACE Limited dated March 31, 2011, which is posted on the company's website in the Investor Information section, and access Financial Reports for more detailed information on individual segment performance, together with additional disclosure on reinsurance recoverable, loss reserves, investment portfolio and capital structure.
Financial Supplement,
 
ACE will host its first quarter earnings conference call and webcast on Thursday, May 5, 2011, beginning at 8:30 a.m. Eastern. The earnings conference call will be available via live and archived webcast at or by dialing 888-318-7470 (within the United States) or 719-325-2392 (international); passcode 7918119. Please refer to the ACE Limited website in the Investor Information section under Calendar of Events for details. A replay of the call will be available for approximately one month. To listen to the replay, dial: 888-203-1112 (in the United States) or 719-457-0820 (international); passcode 7918119.
www.acegroup.com
 
Celebrating 25 years of insuring progress, the ACE Group is a global leader in insurance and reinsurance serving a diverse group of clients. Headed by ACE Limited (NYSE:ACE), the ACE Group conducts its business on a worldwide basis with operating subsidiaries in more than 50 countries. Additional information can be found at:
www.acegroup.com
 
(1)
All comparisons are with the same period last year unless specifically stated.
(2)
Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
 
is a common performance measurement for insurance companies. We believe this presentation enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. We exclude net realized gains (losses) and net realized gains (losses) included in Other income (expense) related to partially-owned entities because the amounts of these gains (losses) do not relate to their respective operations.
Operating Income or Income excluding net realized gains (losses), net of tax
 
is a non-GAAP measure. We present income excluding net realized gains (losses), catastrophe losses and prior period development, net of tax in order that users of our financial information can view and assess the specific impact of catastrophe losses and prior period development on the relevant periods and because of the variance in those amounts in the comparable periods. We believe this separate presentation is meaningful and useful for users of our financial information.
Income excluding net realized gains (losses), catastrophe losses and prior period development, net of tax
 
is calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, policy benefits, policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting income and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including net investment income, other income (expense), interest and income tax expense and net realized gains (losses). Life underwriting income includes net investment income. We believe the use of these measures enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. See reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures on page 24 in the financial supplement. These measures should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
Underwriting income
(3)
Calculated using income excluding net realized gains (losses) divided by average shareholders' equity for the period excluding unrealized gains (losses) on investments and the deferred tax component included in shareholders' equity. To annualize a quarterly rate, multiply by four.
(4)
For Q1 2010, prior period development is net of $31 million, after-tax, for the annual crop insurance profit-sharing commission that is included in the expense ratio.
(5)
Book value per common share is shareholders' equity divided by the shares outstanding. Tangible book value per common share is shareholders' equity less goodwill and other intangible assets divided by the shares outstanding.
NM  not meaningful comparison
 
:
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
Forward-looking statements made in this press release, such as those related to company performance and guidance, products and product mix, economic outlook and insurance market conditions, reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in these statements. For example, our forward-looking statements could be affected by competition, pricing and policy term trends, the levels of new and renewal business achieved, the frequency of unpredictable catastrophic events, actual loss experience, uncertainties in the reserving or settlement process, integration activities and performance of acquired companies, new theories of liability, judicial, legislative, regulatory and other governmental developments, litigation tactics and developments, investigation developments and actual settlement terms, the amount and timing of reinsurance recoverable, credit developments among reinsurers, rating agency action, possible terrorism or the outbreak and effects of war, and economic, political, regulatory, insurance and reinsurance business conditions, as well as management's response to these factors, and other factors identified in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
First Quarter Catastrophe Loss Charges - 2011
 
 
 
 
Insurance - North American
 
 
 
 
 
 
Insurance - Overseas General
 
 
 
 
 
Global Reinsurance
 
 
 
 
Life
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Reinsurance Recoverable by Division
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage-backed Fixed Income Portfolio
Market Value at March 31, 2011
 
 
total $12.9 billion, are rated predominantly AAA and comprise 26% of the fixed income portfolio. This compares to a 35% mortgage-backed weighting in representative indices of the U.S. fixed income market. The minimum rating for initial purchases of mortgage-backed securities is AAA.
Mortgage-backed securities
 
with implied or explicit government guarantees total $10.4 billion and represent 90% of the residential mortgage-backed portfolio.
Securities issued by Federal agencies
 
are backed by prime collateral, and broadly diversified in over 190,000 loans. The portfolio's loan-to-value ratio is approximately 70% with an average FICO score of 730. With this conservative loan-to-value ratio and subordinated collateral of 10%, the cumulative 5-year foreclosure rate would have to rise to 15% and real estate values would have to fall 15% from their current levels before principal is impaired. The current foreclosure rate of ACE's non-agency RMBS portfolio is 9%.
Non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities
 
of $1.4 billion are rated predominantly AAA, broadly diversified with over 17,000 loans and seasoned with 76% of the portfolio issued before 2006. The average loan-to-value ratio is approximately 69% with a debt service coverage ratio in excess of 1.7 and weighted average subordinated collateral of 33%. The cumulative foreclosure rate would have to rise to 42% before principal is impaired. The current foreclosure rate of the portfolio is about 2.7%.
Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 
 
Mortgage-backed Fixed Income Portfolio
Amortized Cost at March 31, 2011
 
 
 
U.S. Investment Grade Corporate and Asset-backed Fixed Income Portfolio
Market Value at March 31, 2011
 
 
U.S. Investment Grade Corporate Fixed Income Portfolio
 
The average credit quality of ACE's US investment grade bond portfolio is high at A.
 
ACE prohibits investments in complex structured securities (e.g. CDOs, CLOs) and over-the-counter derivatives and does not permit the use of portfolio leverage.
 
Corporate bond holdings are highly diversified across industries and geographies. Issuer limits are based on credit rating (AA 2%, A 1%, BBB 0.5% of total portfolio) and are monitored on a daily basis by ACE via an internal compliance system.
 
 
Below Investment Grade Corporate and Asset-backed Fixed Income Portfolio
Market Value at March 31, 2011
 
 
Below Investment Grade Corporate Fixed Income Portfolio
 
ACE manages high yield bonds as a distinct and separate asset class from investment grade bonds. ACE's allocation to high yield bonds is explicitly set by internal management and is targeted to securities in the upper tier of credit quality (BB/B). Our minimum rating for initial purchase is BB/B.
 
Six external investment managers are responsible for high yield security selection and portfolio construction.
 
ACE's high yield managers have a conservative approach to credit selection and very low historical default experience.
 
Securities holdings are highly diversified across industries and are subject to a 1.5% issuer limit as a percentage of high yield allocation. The portfolio comprises over 700 issuers with our largest current issuer exposure at $79 million. ACE monitors position limits on a daily basis through an internal compliance system.
 
Derivative and structured securities (e.g. credit default swaps, CLOs) are not permitted in high yield portfolios.
 
 
Non-U.S. Fixed Income Portfolio
Market Value at March 31, 2011
 
 
Non-U.S. Fixed Income Portfolio
 
ACE's non-U.S. investment grade fixed income portfolios are currency-matched with the insurance liabilities of ACE's non-U.S. operations.
 
83% of ACE's non-U.S. fixed income is denominated in G7 currencies.
 
Average credit quality of non-U.S. fixed income securities is very high at AA and 54% of holdings are rated AAA or guaranteed by governments or quasi-government agencies.
 
Corporate bond holdings are highly diversified across industries and geographies. Issuer limits are based on credit rating (AA 2%, A 1%, BBB 0.5% of total portfolio) and are monitored on a daily basis by ACE via an internal compliance system.
 
 
Investment portfolio
Top 25 Exposures - Fixed Maturity Investments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
March 31, 2011
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulation G - Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
In presenting our results, we have included and discussed certain non-GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures, which may be defined differently by other companies, are important for an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, they should not be viewed as a substitute for measures determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). A reconciliation of book value per common share is provided on the next page.
 
In presenting our segment operating results, we have shown our performance with reference to underwriting results. Underwriting results are calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, policy benefits, policy acquisition costs, and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting results and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including investment income, other income and expenses, interest and income tax expense, and net realized gains (losses).
 
Income excluding net realized gains (losses) and the related tax expense (benefit) is a common performance measurement and non-GAAP measure. We believe this presentation enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. We exclude net realized gains (losses) and net realized gains (losses) included in other income (expense) related to partially owned entities because the amount of these gains (losses) is heavily influenced by, and fluctuates in part according to, the availability of market opportunities.
 
In addition, income excluding net realized gains (losses), catastrophe losses and prior period development is also a non-GAAP measure. We present income excluding net realized gains (losses), catastrophe losses and prior period development in order that users of our financial information can view and assess the specific impact of catastrophe losses and prior period development on the relevant periods and because of the variance in those amounts in the comparable periods. Income excluding net realized gains (losses) and income excluding net realized gains (losses), catastrophe losses and prior period development should not be viewed as substitutes for net income determined in accordance with GAAP.
 
The following table presents the reconciliation of Net income to Income excluding net realized gains (losses), catastrophe losses, and prior period development:
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Book Value per Common Share
 
 
 
 
Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income
 
 
 
Income excluding net realized gains (losses) divided by average shareholders' equity for the period excluding unrealized gains (losses) on investments and the deferred tax component included in shareholders' equity. To annualize a quarterly rate multiply by four.
Annualized return on ordinary shareholders' equity (ROE):
 
Shareholders' equity divided by the shares outstanding.
Book value per common share:
 
Combined Insurance Company of America, acquired April 1, 2008.
Combined Insurance:
 
The sum of the loss and loss expense ratio, acquisition cost ratio and the administrative expense ratio excluding life business. Calculated on a GAAP basis.
Combined ratio:
 
Income tax expense divided by the sum of income tax expense and income excluding net realized gains (losses).
Effective tax rate:
 
A group of seven industrialized nations including Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, United Kingdom, and the United States.
G7:
 
Net premiums earned and net investment income less policy benefits, acquisition costs, and administrative expenses.
Life underwriting income:
 
Not meaningful.
NM:
 
Shareholders' equity less goodwill and other intangible assets divided by the shares outstanding.
Tangible book value per common share:
 
Total capitalization less goodwill and other intangible assets.
Tangible capital:
 
Short-term debt, long-term debt, trust preferreds, and shareholders' equity.
Total capitalization:
 


