FILE:ACE/ACE-8K-20110602170803.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 2, 2011, ACE Limited (the "Company") announced that John Keogh, Vice Chairman, ACE Limited, and Chairman, ACE Overseas General, has been appointed to the additional position of Chief Operating Officer, ACE Limited. A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Keogh's appointment as Chief Operating Officer is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
For additional information on the age, position and business experience of Mr. Keogh, see "Executive Officers of the Company," which is set forth at the end of Part I of the Company's annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
On June 2, 2011, the Company also announced that Brian Dowd, Vice Chairman, ACE Limited, and Chairman, Insurance  North America, will retire from full-time service, effective July 1, 2011. Mr. Dowd will continue to serve ACE in a part-time capacity as a member of the Office of the Chairman, reporting to Evan Greenberg, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. He will focus on underwriting-related matters including oversight of the ACE Group's product boards, the general underwriting disciplines of the company's profit centers, outward reinsurance placements and run-off operations, as well as special strategic projects. A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Dowd's retirement from full-time employment is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
In the June 2, 2011 press release announcing Mr. Keogh's appointment as Chief Operating Officer, the Company also announced that John Lupica, Chief Operating Officer, Insurance  North America, and President, ACE USA, has been named Chairman, Insurance  North America, succeeding Mr. Dowd in that capacity. A copy of the press release announcing Mr. Lupica's appointment as Chairman, Insurance  North America is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1, and is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: June 2, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
June 2, 2011  ACE Limited (NYSE:ACE) announced today that John Keogh, Vice Chairman, ACE Limited, and Chairman, ACE Overseas General, has been appointed to the additional position of Chief Operating Officer, ACE Limited. Mr. Keogh will be responsible for all property and casualty (P&C) insurance operations of the company globally, which includes the Insurance  North American and Insurance  Overseas General business segments. Mr. Keogh will retain his specific executive responsibilities as Chairman, ACE Overseas General, which encompasses ACE's P&C and accident and health (A&H) insurance operations outside North America.
ZURICH 
"It is with great pleasure that I announce the appointment of John Keogh to Chief Operating Officer of ACE," said Evan Greenberg, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, ACE Limited. "This new position, with executive responsibility that spans the company's diverse insurance product offerings around the globe, is an acknowledgment of John's substantial contributions to the success of our international business and his extensive knowledge of and experience in the U.S. P&C industry over a 25-year career. John is a superior insurance executive with global experience. His leadership, character and drive are all tremendous assets that I am confident will continue to benefit our company for years to come."
In addition, the company announced that John Lupica, Chief Operating Officer, Insurance  North America, and President, ACE USA, has been named Chairman, Insurance  North America, succeeding Mr. Dowd in that capacity. Mr. Lupica will be responsible for all P&C insurance operations of the company in the U.S., Canada and Bermuda. Mr. Lupica, who will now report to Mr. Keogh and become a member of the company's Executive Committee, will retain his specific executive responsibilities as President of ACE USA.
"I want to congratulate John Lupica on his appointment to Chairman, Insurance  North America," said Mr. Greenberg. "John is a tremendous insurance executive and has played a key role in building and managing our successful ACE USA franchise. He more recently assumed executive responsibility for our ACE Westchester insurance group where he led a successful change of management and leadership. With his renowned discipline and drive, John will now be responsible for an insurance organization that serves large corporate customers, middle-market and small businesses and individual consumers through a variety of distribution channels including retail and wholesale brokerage and independent agency."
Mr. Keogh joined ACE in 2006 to head the company's Overseas General business. He was appointed Vice Chairman of ACE Limited in 2010. Mr. Keogh joined ACE after more than 20 years with American International Group (AIG), where he last served as Senior Vice President, Domestic General Insurance, and President and Chief Executive Officer of National Union Fire Insurance Company, AIG's company that specializes in directors and officers liability and fiduciary liability coverages.
With more than 20 years in the insurance business, Mr. Lupica joined ACE USA as Executive Vice President of Professional Risk in 2000. Prior to joining ACE, Mr. Lupica served as Senior Vice President for Munich-American Risk Partners, Inc. He also held various management positions at AIG.
Celebrating 25 years of insuring progress, the ACE Group is a global leader in insurance and reinsurance serving a diverse group of clients. Headed by ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE), a component of the S&P 500 stock index, the ACE Group conducts its business on a worldwide basis with operating subsidiaries in more than 50 countries and customers in more than 170 countries. Additional information can be found at: www.acegroup.com.
 

Exhibit 99.2
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
 
June 2, 2011  ACE Limited (NYSE:ACE) announced today that Brian Dowd, Vice Chairman, ACE Limited, and Chairman, Insurance  North America, will retire from full-time service, effective July 1, 2011. Mr. Dowd will continue to serve ACE in a part-time capacity as a member of the Office of the Chairman, reporting to Evan Greenberg, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. He will focus on underwriting-related matters including oversight of the ACE Group's product boards, the general underwriting disciplines of the company's profit centers, outward reinsurance placements and run-off operations, as well as special strategic projects.
ZURICH 
"On behalf of all my colleagues and our Board of Directors, I want to extend our deepest gratitude to Brian Dowd," said Mr. Greenberg. "In his 15 years with ACE, Brian has made a tremendous contribution to our company, helping to transform ACE from a small Bermuda-based specialty writer to a top 10 global multi-line insurer. Brian's leadership, underwriting wisdom and exemplary character have all added to a tremendous legacy here at ACE.
"A great friend and colleague whom I have relied on closely over the years, Brian expressed a desire some time ago to pursue other interests and focus on his family. Over an extended period of time, we thoughtfully and carefully planned this transition. I am delighted that the company and I will continue to benefit from his counsel as a member of the Office of the Chairman."
Celebrating 25 years of insuring progress, the ACE Group is a global leader in insurance and reinsurance serving a diverse group of clients. Headed by ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE), a component of the S&P 500 stock index, the ACE Group conducts its business on a worldwide basis with operating subsidiaries in more than 50 countries and customers in more than 170 countries. Additional information can be found at: www.acegroup.com.
 


