FILE:ACE/ACE-8K-20110202172837.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 2, 2011, ACE Limited issued a press release reporting its fourth quarter 2010 results and the availability of its fourth quarter 2010 financial supplement. The press release and the financial supplement are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
DATE: February 2, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE) today reported net income for the quarter ended December 31, 2010, of $2.92 per share, compared with $2.81 per share for the same quarter last year.
ZURICH, February 2, 2011
(1)
Income excluding net realized gains (losses) was $2.05 per share, compared with $2.01 per share for the same quarter last year.
(
2
)
Book value increased $129 million during the quarter. Book value per share was up 2% from September 30, 2010, and tangible book value per share decreased 2% in the quarter due to the Rain and Hail transaction. Book value and tangible book value per share now stand at $68.59 and $54.63, respectively. Annualized operating return on average equity for the quarter was 13.2%.
(
3
)
The property and casualty (P&C) combined ratio for the quarter was 90.3%.
 
Net income for the year ended December 31, 2010, was $9.11 per share, compared with $7.55 per share for 2009. For the year ended December 31, 2010, income excluding net realized gains (losses) was $7.79 per share, compared with $8.17 per share for 2009. Book value increased $3.3 billion, up 17% during the year ended December 31, 2010, while tangible book value increased $2.6 billion, up 16%. Annualized operating return on equity for the year was 13.1%. The P&C combined ratio for the year ended December 31, 2010, was 90.2%.
 
Evan G. Greenberg, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ACE Limited, commented: "ACE had a very good fourth quarter and a strong finish to an excellent year, both financially and operationally. During the year, we made important strides to better position our company for the future.
"Our after-tax operating income for the year was nearly $2.7 billion, with strong contributions from both underwriting and investment income, and our book value continued its track record of growth, closing up 17% for the year. Over the last five years, we have grown our per-share book and tangible book value at a compound annual rate of 14.5% and 15.8%, respectively. Our P&C combined ratio for 2010 was 90.2%, which speaks to our strong underwriting culture and cycle management. I believe these standout financial results, which produced an operating return on equity of 13.1%, demonstrate the power of our well-diversified global balance of businesses.
"During the year we added to our executive management ranks, increased the rigor of our underwriting discipline and completed a number of acquisitions that will pay us dividends immediately and, more importantly, over the longer-term. During the quarter, S&P upgraded the financial strength rating of our core operating insurance companies to AA-, acknowledging the strength of our balance sheet and our distinct global franchise. Without a doubt, we ended the year stronger and better positioned to capitalize upon opportunity in 2011 and beyond.
"While the operating environment remains challenging, both economically and competitively, we are optimistic and confident in our ability to continue delivering superior results."
Operating highlights for the quarter ended December 31, 2010, were as follows
(1):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Details of our financial results for our business segments are available in the ACE Limited Financial Supplement. Key segment items for the quarter ended December 31, 2010, include:
 
 
 
 
The company also issued 2011 guidance. Operating income is expected to range between $6.10 and $6.50 per share. Catastrophe losses included in the estimate are $370 million pre-tax ($300 million after-tax). The operating income projections included in this guidance are for current accident year results only and by definition do not include any estimate for prior period reserve development. For 2010, the comparable operating income per share excluding prior period reserve development and including $0.99 of after-tax catastrophe losses was $6.48.
Please refer to the ACE Limited dated December 31, 2010, which is posted on the company's website in the Investor Information section, and access Financial Reports for more detailed information on individual segment performance, together with additional disclosure on reinsurance recoverable, loss reserves, investment portfolio, and capital structure.
Financial Supplement
ACE will host its fourth quarter earnings conference call and webcast on Thursday, February 3, 2011, beginning at 8:30 a.m. ET. The earnings conference call will be available via live and archived webcast at or by dialing 888-318-7470 (within the United States) or 719-325-2392 (international); passcode 7918119. Please refer to the ACE Limited website in the Investor Information section under Calendar of Events for details. A replay of the call will be available for approximately one month. To listen to the replay, dial: 888-203-1112 (in the United States) or 719-457-0820 (international); passcode 7918119.
www.acegroup.com
 
 
Celebrating 25 years of insuring progress, the ACE Group is a global leader in insurance and reinsurance serving a diverse group of clients. Headed by ACE Limited (NYSE:ACE), the ACE Group conducts its business on a worldwide basis with operating subsidiaries in more than 50 countries. Additional information can be found at:
www.acegroup.com
 
is a common performance measurement for insurance companies. We believe this presentation enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. We exclude net realized gains (losses) and net realized gains (losses) included in Other income (expense) related to partially-owned entities because the amounts of these gains (losses) do not relate to their respective operations.
Operating Income or Income excluding net realized gains (losses), net of tax
is calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, policy benefits, policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting income and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including net investment income, other income (expense), interest and income tax expense and net realized gains (losses). Life underwriting income includes net investment income. We believe the use of these measures enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business.
Underwriting income
See reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures on page 26 in the financial supplement. These measures should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
 
NM  not meaningful comparison
:
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Forward-looking statements made in this press release, such as those related to company performance and guidance, recent corporate developments and acquisitions, ACE's products and product mix, economic outlook and insurance market conditions, reflect the company's current views with respect to future events and financial performance and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in these statements. For example, the company's forward-looking statements could be affected by competition, pricing and policy term trends, the levels of new and renewal business achieved, the frequency of unpredictable catastrophic events, actual loss experience, uncertainties in the reserving or settlement process, integration activities and performance of acquired companies, new theories of liability, judicial, legislative, regulatory and other governmental developments, litigation tactics and developments, investigation developments and actual settlement terms, the amount and timing of reinsurance recoverable, credit developments among reinsurers, rating agency action, possible terrorism or the outbreak and effects of war, and economic, political, regulatory, insurance and reinsurance business conditions, as well as management's response to these factors, and other factors identified in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made. The company undertakes no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Variable Annuity (VA) Lines
 
Historical Cash Flow Summary by Quarter
 
 
Amounts represent accrued past premium received and claims paid by quarter, split by benefit type.
 
Death Benefits (GMDB)
 
Premiums and claims from VA contracts reinsuring Guaranteed Minimum Death Benefits (GMDB).
 
At current market levels we expect approximately $105 million of claims and $91 million of premium on death benefits over the next 12 months.
 
Guaranteed Living Benefits (Includes GMIB and GMAB)
 
Premiums and claims from VA contracts reinsuring Guaranteed Minimum Income Benefits (GMIB) and Guaranteed Minimum Accumulation Benefits (GMAB), collectively known as Guaranteed Living Benefits.
 
At current market levels we expect approximately $1 million of claims and $149 million of premium on living benefits over the next 12 months.
 
 
 
 
Net Reinsurance Recoverable by Division
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage-backed Fixed Income Portfolio
 
Market Value at December 31, 2010
 
 
total $12.4 billion, are rated predominantly AAA and comprise 25% of the fixed income portfolio. This compares to a 35% mortgage-backed weighting in representative indices of the U.S. fixed income market. The minimum rating for initial purchases of mortgage-backed securities is AAA.
Mortgage-backed securities
 
with implied or explicit government guarantees total $9.7 billion and represent 89% of the residential mortgage-backed portfolio.
Securities issued by Federal agencies
 
are backed by prime collateral, and broadly diversified in over 220,000 loans. The portfolio's loan-to-value ratio is approximately 70% with an average FICO score of 730. With this conservative loan-to-value ratio and subordinated collateral of 12%, the cumulative 5-year foreclosure rate would have to rise to 18% and real estate values would have to fall 19% from their current levels before principal is impaired. The current foreclosure rate of ACE's non-agency RMBS portfolio is 9%.
Non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities
 
of $1.4 billion are rated predominantly AAA, broadly diversified with over 17,000 loans and seasoned with 79% of the portfolio issued before 2006. The average loan-to-value ratio is approximately 68% with a debt service coverage ratio in excess of 1.7 and weighted average subordinated collateral of 33%. The cumulative foreclosure rate would have to rise to 41% and commercial real estate values would have to fall more than 5% from their current levels before principal is impaired. The current foreclosure rate of the portfolio is about 2.6%.
Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 
 
Mortgage-backed Fixed Income Portfolio
Amortized Cost at December 31, 2010
 
 
 
U.S. Investment Grade Corporate and Asset-backed Fixed Income Portfolio
 
 
U.S. Investment Grade Corporate Fixed Income Portfolio
 
The average credit quality of ACE's US investment grade bond portfolio is high at A.
 
ACE prohibits investments in complex structured securities (e.g. CDOs, CLOs) and over-the-counter derivatives and does not permit the use of portfolio leverage.
 
Corporate bond holdings are highly diversified across industries and geographies. Issuer limits are based on credit rating (AA 2%, A 1%, BBB 0.5% of total portfolio) and are monitored on a daily basis by ACE via an internal compliance system.
 
 
Below Investment Grade Corporate and Asset-backed Fixed Income Portfolio
Market Value at December 31, 2010
 
 
Below Investment Grade Corporate Fixed Income Portfolio
 
ACE manages high yield bonds as a distinct and separate asset class from investment grade bonds. ACE's allocation to high yield bonds is explicitly set by internal management and is targeted to securities in the upper tier of credit quality (BB/B). Our minimum rating for initial purchase is BB/B.
 
Six external investment managers are responsible for high yield security selection and portfolio construction.
 
ACE's high yield managers have a conservative approach to credit selection and very low historical default experience.
 
Securities holdings are highly diversified across industries and are subject to a 1.5% issuer limit as a percentage of high yield allocation. The portfolio comprises over 650 issuers with our largest current issuer exposure at $72 million. ACE monitors position limits on a daily basis through an internal compliance system.
 
Derivative and structured securities (e.g. credit default swaps, CLOs) are not permitted in high yield portfolios.
 
 
Non-U.S. Fixed Income Portfolio
Market Value at December 31, 2010
 
 
Non-U.S. Fixed Income Portfolio
 
ACE's non-U.S. investment grade fixed income portfolios are currency-matched with the insurance liabilities of ACE's non-U.S. operations. 85% of ACE's non-U.S. fixed income is denominated in G7 currencies.
 
Average credit quality of non-U.S. fixed income securities is very high at AA and 53% of holdings are rated AAA or guaranteed by governments or quasi-government agencies.
 
Corporate bond holdings are highly diversified across industries and geographies. Issuer limits are based on credit rating (AA 2%, A 1%, BBB 0.5% of total portfolio) and are monitored on a daily basis by ACE via an internal compliance system.
 
 
Investment portfolio
 
Top 25 Exposures - Fixed Maturity Investments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
December 31, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulation G - Non-GAAP Financial Measures
 
In presenting our results, we have included and discussed certain non-GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures, which may be defined differently by other companies, are important for an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, they should not be viewed as a substitute for measures determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). A reconciliation of book value per common share is provided on the next page.
 
In presenting our segment operating results, we have shown our performance with reference to underwriting results. Underwriting results are calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, policy benefits, policy acquisition costs, and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting results and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including investment income, other income and expenses, interest and income tax expense, and net realized gains (losses).
 
The following non-GAAP measure is a common performance measurement and is defined as income excluding net realized gains (losses) and the related tax expense (benefit). We believe this presentation enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. We exclude net realized gains (losses) and net realized gains (losses) included in other income (expense) related to partially owned entities because the amount of these gains (losses) is heavily influenced by, and fluctuates in part according to, the availability of market opportunities. Income excluding net realized gains (losses) should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Book Value per Common Share
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Income excluding net realized gains (losses) divided by average shareholders' equity for the period excluding unrealized gains (losses) on investments and the deferred tax component included in shareholders' equity. To annualize a quarterly rate multiply by four.
Annualized return on ordinary shareholders' equity (ROE):
 
Shareholders' equity divided by the shares outstanding.
Book value per common share:
 
Combined Insurance Company of America, acquired April 1, 2008.
Combined Insurance:
 
The sum of the loss and loss expense ratio, acquisition cost ratio and the administrative expense ratio excluding life business. Calculated on a GAAP basis.
Combined ratio:
 
Income tax expense divided by the sum of income tax expense and income excluding net realized gains (losses).
Effective tax rate:
 
A group of seven industrialized nations including Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, United Kingdom, and the United States.
G7:
 
Net premiums earned and net investment income less policy benefits, acquisition costs, and administrative expenses.
Life underwriting income:
 
Not meaningful.
NM:
 
Shareholders' equity less goodwill and other intangible assets divided by the shares outstanding.
Tangible book value per common share:
 
Total capitalization less goodwill and other intangible assets.
Tangible capital:
 
Short-term debt, long-term debt, trust preferreds, and shareholders' equity.
Total capitalization:
 


