FILE:ACE/ACE-8K-20121023161922.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 23, 2012, ACE Limited issued a Press Release reporting its third quarter 2012 results and the availability of its third quarter 2012 Financial Supplement. The Press Release and the Financial Supplement are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: October 23, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
- ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE) today reported net income for the quarter ended September 30, 2012, of $1.86 per share, compared with a net loss of $0.11 per share for the same quarter last year.
ZURICH - October 23, 2012
(1)
Income excluding net realized gains (losses) was $2.01 per share, compared with $2.20 per share for the same quarter last year.
(2)
Book value and tangible book value increased 4.7% and 5.0%, respectively, from June 30, 2012. Book value and tangible book value per share now stand at $79.36 and $64.67, respectively. Operating return on equity for the quarter was 11.5%.
(2)
The property and casualty (P&C) combined ratio for the quarter was 92.0%.
 
For the nine months ended September 30, 2012, net income was $5.67 per share, compared with $2.36 per share for 2011. Income excluding net realized gains (losses) was $6.23 per share, compared with $4.94 per share for 2011. Book value increased $2.6 billion, up 10.8% from December 31, 2011, and tangible book value increased $2.4 billion, up 12.5%. The P&C combined ratio for the nine months ended September 30, 2012, was 90.2%.
 
Evan G. Greenberg, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ACE Limited, commented: "ACE had an excellent third quarter marked by strong earnings, outstanding growth in book value, broad-based premium revenue growth and two acquisition announcements that further our global strategy.
"After-tax operating income was $688 million or $2.01 per share. While the drought conditions in the U.S. severely impacted our crop insurance business and reduced operating income by $0.28 per share, as a total company we delivered outstanding underwriting results as demonstrated by a P&C combined ratio of 92% and produced an operating ROE of 11.5%. Moreover, book value grew 4.7% in the quarter and is now up about 11% for the year.
"Premium revenue growth in the quarter was the strongest so far this year with total company net premiums written up 8.6%, or 11.1% when adjusted for the impact of foreign exchange. We continue to benefit from the favorable P&C pricing trend in North America, where we recorded strong double-digit premium growth, and internationally, excluding the impact of foreign exchange, we also registered good growth across a broad spectrum of property and casualty, accident and health, and personal lines businesses, particularly in Asia and Latin America.
"In the last 60 days, we closed an acquisition in Indonesia and announced two separate acquisitions that will significantly enhance our presence and capabilities in Mexico. We are optimistic about our future growth opportunities in these two exciting countries as well as globally. We believe that with our exceptional positioning, growing capabilities and strong balance sheet, our strategic options are accelerating."
 
Operating highlights for the quarter ended September 30, 2012, were as follows:
(1)
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Details of financial results by business segment are available in the ACE Limited Financial Supplement. Key segment items for the quarter ended September 30, 2012, include:
 
 
 
 
The company is updating guidance for full-year 2012. The range is now $7.73 to $8.03 per share of after-tax operating income for the year. First, the update reflects the positive prior period reserve development and lower-than-planned catastrophe losses in the first three quarters of $1.60 per share. Second, the update includes a reduction of $0.57 per share after-tax related to the company's crop insurance business, increased from the second quarter guidance estimate of $0.19 per share after-tax. The guidance for crop insurance provided with second quarter earnings estimated a $68 million after-tax reduction in third quarter operating income due to the drought in the U.S., with an additional reduction of $200 million after-tax possible under an estimated worst-case scenario. The company now expects full-year operating income to be reduced by approximately $195 million after-tax, or approximately $73 million less than the $268 million after-tax worst-case estimate noted above. Finally, the update includes estimated catastrophe losses of $100 million after-tax for the fourth quarter. Guidance for the balance of the year is for the current accident year only.
Please refer to the ACE Limited , dated September 30, 2012, which is posted on the company's website in the Investor Information section, and access Financial Reports for more detailed information on individual segment performance, together with additional disclosure on reinsurance recoverable, loss reserves, investment portfolio and capital structure.
Financial Supplement
ACE will host its third quarter earnings conference call and webcast on Wednesday, October 24, 2012, beginning at 8:30 a.m. Eastern. The earnings conference call will be available via live and archived webcast at or by dialing 800-390-5202 (within the United States) or 719-325-2132 (international); passcode 6724647. Please refer to the ACE Group website in the Investor Information section under Calendar of Events for details. A replay of the call will be available until Wednesday, November 7, 2012. To listen to the replay, dial 888-203-1112 (in the United States) or 719-457-0820 (international); passcode 6724647.
www.acegroup.com
The ACE Group is one of the world's largest multiline property and casualty insurers. With operations in 53 countries, ACE provides commercial and personal property and casualty insurance, personal accident and supplemental health insurance, reinsurance and life insurance to a diverse group of clients. ACE Limited, the parent company of the ACE Group, is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: ACE) and is a component of the S&P 500 index. Additional information can be found at: .
www.acegroup.com
 
 
 
is a common performance measurement for insurance companies. We believe this presentation enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. We exclude net realized gains (losses) and net realized gains (losses) included in other income (expense) related to partially-owned entities because the amount of these gains (losses) is heavily influenced by, and fluctuates in part according to, the availability of market opportunities.
Operating income or income excluding net realized gains (losses), net of tax
is calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, policy benefits, policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting income and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including net investment income, other income (expense), interest and income tax expense and net realized gains (losses). Life underwriting income includes net investment income and gains (losses) from fair value changes in separate account assets that do not qualify for separate account reporting under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). P&C underwriting income and consolidated underwriting income are non-GAAP financial measures. We believe the use of these measures enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business.
Underwriting income
is an annualized non-GAAP financial measure. The ROE numerator includes income adjusted to exclude net realized gains (losses), net of tax. The ROE denominator includes the average shareholders' equity for the period adjusted to exclude unrealized gains (losses) on investments, net of tax. To annualize a quarterly rate, multiply by four. Operating ROE is a useful measure as it enhances the understanding of the return on shareholders' equity by highlighting the underlying profitability relative to shareholders' equity excluding the effect of unrealized gains and losses on our investments.
Operating return on equity (ROE) or ROE calculated using income excluding net realized gains (losses)
is shareholders' equity divided by the shares outstanding.
Book value per common share
is shareholders' equity less goodwill and other intangible assets divided by the shares outstanding.
Tangible book value per common share
See reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures on pages 21-22 in the Financial Supplement. These measures should not be viewed as a substitute for net income, return on equity, or effective tax rate determined in accordance with GAAP.
 
NM - not meaningful comparison
:
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Forward-looking statements made in this press release, such as those related to company performance and guidance, insurance market conditions, and acquisitions and strategic options, reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially, including without limitation, the following: competition, pricing and policy term trends, the levels of new and renewal business achieved, the frequency of unpredictable catastrophic events, actual loss experience, uncertainties in the reserving or settlement process, integration activities and performance of acquired companies, failure of announced acquisitions to close, new theories of liability, judicial, legislative, regulatory and other governmental developments, litigation tactics and developments, investigation developments and actual settlement terms, the amount and timing of reinsurance recoverable, credit developments among reinsurers, rating agency action, possible terrorism or the outbreak and effects of war, and economic, political, regulatory, insurance and reinsurance business conditions, as well as management's response to these factors, and other factors identified in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
 
 
Note: All dollar amounts in the Financial Supplement are rounded. However, percent changes and ratios are calculated using whole dollars. Accordingly, calculations using rounded dollars may differ.
 
 
Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncement:
Shareholders' equity and book value per common share at December 31, 2011 and September 30, 2011 and ROE percentages for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011 have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the adoption of new guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board related to the accounting for costs associated with acquiring or renewing insurance contracts. The adoption of this guidance decreased shareholders' equity by $181 million as of December 31, 2011. The effect of the adoption of the new guidance on net income for the three and nine months ended September 30, 2011 was a decrease of $8 million and $30 million, respectively.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated Constant Dollar
 
 
 
 
Insurance - North American
 
 
 
Insurance - Overseas General
 
 
 
Global Reinsurance
 
 
 
Life
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage-backed Fixed Income Portfolio
Mortgage-backed securities
 
total $13.1 billion, are rated predominantly AA and comprise 23% of the fixed income portfolio. This compares to a 32% mortgage-backed weighting in representative indices of the U.S. fixed income market. The minimum rating for initial purchases of mortgage-backed securities is AA for agency mortgages and AAA for non-agency mortgages.
Mortgage-backed securities
with implied or explicit government guarantees total $11.2 billion and represent 95% of the residential mortgage-backed portfolio.
Securities issued by Federal agencies
are backed by prime collateral, and broadly diversified in over 45,000 loans. The portfolio's original loan-to-value ratio is approximately 67% with an average FICO score of 732. With this conservative loan-to-value ratio and subordinated collateral of 6%, the cumulative 5-year foreclosure rate would have to rise to 18% before principal is significantly impaired. The foreclosure rate of ACE's non-agency RMBS portfolio at September 30, 2012 was 7%.
Non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities
of $1.2 billion are rated predominantly AAA, broadly diversified with over 13,000 loans and seasoned with 40% of the portfolio issued before 2006 and 42% of the portfolio issued after 2009. The average loan-to-value ratio is approximately 65% with a debt service coverage ratio in excess of 1.9 and weighted average subordinated collateral of 29%. The cumulative foreclosure rate would have to rise to 42% before principal is impaired. The foreclosure rate of ACE's commercial mortgage-backed securities portfolio at September 30, 2012 was 2.1%.
Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 
U.S. Corporate and Asset-backed Fixed Income Portfolios
Market Value at September 30, 2012
U.S. Investment Grade Corporate Fixed Income Portfolio
The average credit quality of ACE's US investment grade bond portfolio is high at A.
ACE prohibits investments in complex structured securities (e.g., CDOs, CLOs) and over-the-counter derivatives and does not permit the use of portfolio leverage.
Corporate bond holdings are highly diversified across industries and geographies. Issuer limits are based on credit rating (AA 2%, A 1%, BBB 0.5% of total portfolio) and are monitored on a daily basis by ACE via an internal compliance system.
Market Value at September 30, 2012
 
U.S. Below Investment Grade Corporate Fixed Income Portfolio
ACE manages high yield bonds as a distinct and separate asset class from investment grade bonds. ACE's allocation to high yield bonds is explicitly set by internal management and is targeted to securities in the upper tier of credit quality (BB/B). Our minimum rating for initial purchase is BB/B.
Six external investment managers are responsible for high yield security selection and portfolio construction.
ACE's high yield managers have a conservative approach to credit selection and very low historical default experience.
Securities holdings are highly diversified across industries and are subject to a 1.5% issuer limit as a percentage of high yield allocation. The portfolio comprises over 750 issuers with our largest current issuer exposure at $99 million. ACE monitors position limits on a daily basis through an internal compliance system.
Derivative and structured securities (e.g., credit default swaps, CLOs) are not permitted in high yield portfolios.
 
Non-U.S. Fixed Income Portfolio
September 30, 2012
 
 
Non-U.S. Fixed Income Portfolio
ACE's non-U.S. investment grade fixed income portfolios are currency-matched with the insurance liabilities of ACE's non-U.S. operations.
78% of ACE's non-U.S. fixed income portfolios are denominated in G7 currencies.
Average credit quality of non-U.S. fixed income securities is very high at A and 54% of holdings are rated AAA or guaranteed by governments or quasi-government agencies.
Corporate bond holdings are highly diversified across industries and geographies. Issuer limits are based on credit rating (AA 2%, A 1%, BBB 0.5% of total portfolio) and are monitored on a daily basis by ACE via an internal compliance system.
 
 
 
Eurozone Non-U.S. Fixed Income Portfolio (Excluding United Kingdom)
September 30, 2012
 
Note: ACE has no investments in Greece and Italy
Top 10 ExposuresEurozone Banks (Excluding United Kingdom)
 
 
 
Investment portfolio
Top 25 Exposures - Fixed Maturity Investments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulation GNon-GAAP Financial Measures
In presenting our results, we have included and discussed certain non-GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures, which may be defined differently by other companies, are important for an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, they should not be viewed as a substitute for measures determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). A reconciliation of book value per common share is provided on page 23.
In presenting our segment operating results, we have shown our performance with reference to underwriting results. Underwriting results are calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, policy benefits, policy acquisition costs, and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting results and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including investment income, other income and expenses, interest and income tax expense, and net realized gains (losses). Life underwriting income includes net investment income and gains (losses) from fair value changes in separate account assets that do not qualify for separate account reporting under GAAP.
Loss and loss expense ratio excluding the impact of catastrophe losses and prior period development (PPD) is a non-GAAP financial measure. The loss ratio numerator includes Losses and loss expenses adjusted to exclude catastrophe losses and PPD. The loss ratio denominator includes Net premiums earned adjusted to exclude the amount of reinstatement premiums (expensed) collected. In periods where there are adjustments on loss sensitive policies, these adjustments are excluded from PPD and net earned premiums when calculating this ratio. We believe that excluding the impact of catastrophe losses and PPD provides a better evaluation of our core underwriting performance and enhances the understanding of the trends in our property & casualty business that may be obscured by these items.
Combined ratio excluding catastrophe losses, PPD, and crop is a non-GAAP financial measure. The ratio numerator includes losses and loss expenses, policy acquisition costs, and administrative expenses adjusted to exclude catastrophe losses, PPD, and crop insurance. The ratio denominator includes net premiums earned adjusted to exclude the amount of reinstatement premiums (expensed) collected, net earned premium adjustments on loss sensitive policies and net premiums earned on crop insurance business. We believe that excluding the impact of catastrophe losses, PPD, and crop insurance provides a better evaluation of our core underwriting performance and enhances the understanding of the trends in our property & casualty business that may be obscured by these items.
Operating return on equity (ROE) or ROE calculated using income excluding net realized gains (losses) is an annualized non-GAAP financial measure. The ROE numerator includes income adjusted to exclude net realized gains (losses), net of tax. The ROE denominator includes the average shareholders' equity for the period adjusted to exclude unrealized gains (losses) on investments, net of tax. To annualize a quarterly rate, multiply by four. Operating ROE is a useful measure as it enhances the understanding of the return on shareholders' equity by highlighting the underlying profitability relative to shareholders' equity excluding the effect of unrealized gains and losses on our investments.
Income excluding net realized gains (losses), net of tax, is a common performance measurement for insurance companies and non-GAAP measure. We believe this presentation enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. We exclude net realized gains (losses) and net realized gains (losses) included in other income (expense) related to partially owned entities because the amount of these gains (losses) is heavily influenced by, and fluctuates in part according to, the availability of market opportunities. Income excluding net realized gains (losses) should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with GAAP. The following table presents the reconciliation of Net income (loss) to Income excluding net realized gains (losses):
 
 
 
Regulation GNon-GAAP Financial Measures (continued)
The following table presents the reconciliation of effective tax rate to the effective tax rate on income excluding net realized gains (losses):
 
 
Reconciliation of Book Value per Common Share
 
 
 
 
comprises all segments including Corporate and Other.
ACE Limited Consolidated
Income excluding net realized gains (losses), net of tax, divided by average shareholders' equity for the period excluding unrealized gains (losses) on investments, net of tax. To annualize a quarterly rate multiply by four.
Operating return on equity (ROE) or ROE calculated using income excluding net realized gains (losses):
Shareholders' equity divided by the shares outstanding.
Book value per common share:
Combined Insurance Company of America, acquired April 1, 2008.
Combined Insurance:
The sum of the loss and loss expense ratio, acquisition cost ratio and the administrative expense ratio excluding life business. Calculated on a GAAP basis.
Combined ratio:
Income tax expense excluding tax expense (benefit) on net realized gains (losses) divided by income excluding net realized gains (losses) before tax.
Effective tax rate on income excluding net realized gains (losses):
A group of seven industrialized nations including Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, United Kingdom, and the United States.
G7:
Net premiums earned and net investment income less policy benefits, acquisition costs, and administrative expenses. In addition, Life underwriting income includes gains/losses from fair value changes in separate account assets that do not qualify for separate account reporting under GAAP.
Life underwriting income:
Not meaningful.
NM:
Shareholders' equity less goodwill and other intangible assets divided by the shares outstanding.
Tangible book value per common share:
Total capitalization less goodwill and other intangible assets.
Tangible capital:
Short-term debt, long-term debt, trust preferreds, and shareholders' equity.
Total capitalization:
 


