FILE:ACE/ACE-8K-20120424164700.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 24, 2012, ACE Limited issued a press release reporting its first quarter 2012 results and the availability of its first quarter 2012 Financial Supplement. The Press Release and the Financial Supplement are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and Exhibit 99.2, respectively, and are hereby incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
 
DATE: April 24, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 ACE Limited (NYSE: ACE) today reported net income for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, of $2.84 per share, compared with $0.73 per share for the same quarter last year.
ZURICH  April 24, 2012
(1)
Income excluding net realized gains (losses) was $2.05 per share, compared with $0.76 per share for the same quarter last year.
(2)
Book value and tangible book value increased 4.5% and 5.3%, respectively, from December 31, 2011. Book value and tangible book value per share now stand at $75.09 and $60.74, respectively. Annualized operating return on equity for the quarter was 12.2%.
(2)
The property and casualty (P&C) combined ratio for the quarter was 89.2%.
 
 
Evan G. Greenberg, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of ACE Limited, commented: "ACE had a good first quarter and strong start to the year. After-tax operating income topped $700 million and our operating ROE surpassed 12%. Book value grew 4.5% in the quarter. Our balance sheet is in excellent shape  capital now exceeds $30 billion and shareholders' equity exceeds $25 billion.
 
"Our underwriting results were simply excellent as demonstrated by a P&C combined ratio of 89.2%. We and much of the industry benefited from relatively light catastrophe losses in the quarter, particularly compared to prior year. It's noteworthy that our operating income excluding catastrophes was up 2% over the first quarter last year. As for revenue, total company net premiums written grew 3.7% in the quarter, right in line with our plans. We expect our company's premium growth rate to accelerate as the year progresses.
 
"Insurance rates were in line with or marginally better than our expectations. In fact, this was the strongest quarter yet for rate increases, which were more broad-based. Rates on our U.S. business were up 3.6% on average. We benefited from improved pricing in many of our property-related classes and modestly improved pricing in certain casualty classes. As a result, our customer retention rates improved globally and we incrementally increased our new business writings. At the same time, we continued to shed lines of business, particularly U.S. general market workers' compensation, where pricing for some time has not met our standards for earning an underwriting profit."
 
Operating highlights for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, were as follows:
(1)
 
 
 
Details of our financial results for our business segments are available in the ACE Limited Financial Supplement. Key segment items for the quarter ended March 31, 2012, include:
 
 
The company is issuing updated guidance for full-year 2012 to account for the positive first quarter prior period reserve development and the lower-than-planned catastrophe losses realized in the first quarter. The range is $7.03 to $7.43 per share in after-tax operating income for the year. This includes estimated catastrophe losses of $325 million after tax for the second through fourth quarters.
 
Please refer to the ACE Limited , dated March 31, 2012, which is posted on our website in the Investor Information section, and access Financial Reports for more detailed information on individual segment performance, together with additional disclosure on reinsurance recoverable, loss reserves, investment portfolio and capital structure.
Financial Supplement
 
ACE will host its first quarter earnings conference call and webcast on Wednesday, April 25, 2012, beginning at 8:30 a.m. Eastern. The earnings conference call will be available via live and archived webcast at or by dialing 888-300-2343 (within the United States) or 719-325-2204 (international); passcode 4955002. Please refer to the ACE Limited website in the Investor Information section under Calendar of Events for details. A replay of the call will be available until May 9, 2012. To listen to the replay, dial: 888-203-1112 (in the United States) or 719-457-0820 (international); passcode 4955002.
www.acegroup.com
 
The ACE Group is one of the world's largest multiline property and casualty insurers. With operations in 53 countries, ACE provides commercial and personal property and casualty insurance, personal accident and supplemental health insurance, reinsurance and life insurance to a diverse group of clients. ACE Limited, the parent company of the ACE Group, is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE: ACE) and is a component of the S&P 500 index. Additional information can be found at: .
www.acegroup.com
 
(1)
All comparisons are with the same period last year unless specifically stated.
(2)
Non-GAAP Financial Measures:
 
is a common performance measurement for insurance companies. We believe this presentation enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. We exclude net realized gains (losses) and net realized gains (losses) included in other income (expense) related to partially-owned entities because the amount of these gains (losses) is heavily influenced by, and fluctuates in part according to, the availability of market opportunities.
Operating income or income excluding net realized gains (losses), net of tax
 
is calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, policy benefits, policy acquisition costs and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting income and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including net investment income, other income (expense), interest and income tax expense and net realized gains (losses). Life underwriting income includes net investment income and gains (losses) from fair value changes in separate account assets that do not qualify for separate account reporting under generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). P&C underwriting income and consolidated underwriting income are non-GAAP financial measures. We believe the use of these measures enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business.
Underwriting income
 
is a non-GAAP financial measure. The ROE numerator includes income adjusted to exclude net realized gains (losses), net of tax. The ROE denominator includes the average shareholders' equity for the period adjusted to exclude unrealized gains (losses) on investments, net of tax. To annualize a quarterly rate, multiply by four. Annualized ROE calculated using income excluding realized gains (losses) is a useful measure as it enhances the understanding of the return on shareholders' equity by highlighting the underlying profitability relative to shareholders' equity excluding the effect of unrealized gains and losses on our investments.
Annualized operating return on equity (ROE) or annualized ROE calculated using income excluding net realized gains (losses)
 
is shareholders' equity divided by the shares outstanding.
Book value per common share
 
is shareholders' equity less goodwill and other intangible assets divided by the shares outstanding.
Tangible book value per common share
 
is a non-GAAP financial measure.
Operating effective tax rate or effective tax rate on income excluding net realized gains (losses)
 
See reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures on pages 20-21 in the Financial Supplement. These measures should not be viewed as a substitute for net income, return on equity, or effective tax rate determined in accordance with GAAP.
 
(3)
Refer to the Financial Supplement page 1 for further detail.
 
NM  not meaningful comparison
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements:
 
Forward-looking statements made in this press release, such as those related to company performance and guidance, economic outlook and insurance market conditions, reflect our current views with respect to future events and financial performance and are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements involve risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those set forth in these statements. For example, our forward-looking statements could be affected by competition, pricing and policy term trends, the levels of new and renewal business achieved, the frequency of unpredictable catastrophic events, actual loss experience, uncertainties in the reserving or settlement process, integration activities and performance of acquired companies, new theories of liability, judicial, legislative, regulatory and other governmental developments, litigation tactics and developments, investigation developments and actual settlement terms, the amount and timing of reinsurance recoverable, credit developments among reinsurers, rating agency action, possible terrorism or the outbreak and effects of war, and economic, political, regulatory, insurance and reinsurance business conditions, as well as management's response to these factors, and other factors identified in our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the dates on which they are made. We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
    
 
 
 
 
 
Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncement:
Shareholders' equity and book value per common share at December 31, 2011 and March 31, 2011 and annualized ROE percentages for the three months ended March 31, 2011 have been retrospectively adjusted to reflect the adoption of new guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board related to the accounting for costs associated with acquiring or renewing insurance contracts. The adoption of this guidance decreased shareholders' equity by $181 million as of December 31, 2011. The effect of the adoption of the new guidance on net income for the three months ended March 31, 2011 was $10 million.
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
ACE Limited Consolidated
 
 
 
Insurance - North American
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Life
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Reinsurance Recoverable by Division
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Mortgage-backed Fixed Income Portfolio
Mortgage-backed securities
 
total $12.8 billion, are rated predominantly AA and comprise 24% of the fixed income portfolio. This compares to a 33% mortgage-backed weighting in representative indices of the U.S. fixed income market. The minimum rating for initial purchases of mortgage-backed securities is AA for agency mortgages and AAA for non-agency mortgages.
Mortgage-backed securities
with implied or explicit government guarantees total $10.9 billion and represent 94% of the residential mortgage-backed portfolio.
Securities issued by Federal agencies
are backed by prime collateral, and broadly diversified in over 92,000 loans. The portfolio's original loan-to-value ratio is approximately 67% with an average FICO score of 730. With this conservative loan-to-value ratio and subordinated collateral of 6%, the cumulative 5-year foreclosure rate would have to rise to 10% before principal is significantly impaired. The current foreclosure rate of ACE's non-agency RMBS portfolio is 8%.
Non-agency residential mortgage-backed securities
of $1.2 billion are rated predominantly AAA, broadly diversified with over 14,000 loans and seasoned with 54% of the portfolio issued before 2006 and 32% of the portfolio issued after 2009. The average loan-to-value ratio is approximately 65% with a debt service coverage ratio in excess of 1.8 and weighted average subordinated collateral of 31%. The cumulative foreclosure rate would have to rise to 43% before principal is impaired. The current foreclosure rate of the portfolio is about 2.7%.
Commercial mortgage-backed securities
 
 
U.S. Corporate and Asset-backed Fixed Income Portfolios
 
U.S. Investment Grade Corporate Fixed Income Portfolio
The average credit quality of ACE's US investment grade bond portfolio is high at A.
ACE prohibits investments in complex structured securities (e.g. CDOs, CLOs) and over-the-counter derivatives and does not permit the use of portfolio leverage.
Corporate bond holdings are highly diversified across industries and geographies. Issuer limits are based on credit rating (AA 2%, A 1%, BBB 0.5% of total portfolio) and are monitored on a daily basis by ACE via an internal compliance system.
 
U.S. Below Investment Grade Corporate Fixed Income Portfolio
ACE manages high yield bonds as a distinct and separate asset class from investment grade bonds. ACE's allocation to high yield bonds is explicitly set by internal management and is targeted to securities in the upper tier of credit quality (BB/B). Our minimum rating for initial purchase is BB/B.
Six external investment managers are responsible for high yield security selection and portfolio construction.
ACE's high yield managers have a conservative approach to credit selection and very low historical default experience.
Securities holdings are highly diversified across industries and are subject to a 1.5% issuer limit as a percentage of high yield allocation. The portfolio comprises over 700 issuers with our largest current issuer exposure at $91 million. ACE monitors position limits on a daily basis through an internal compliance system.
Derivative and structured securities (e.g. credit default swaps, CLOs) are not permitted in high yield portfolios.
 
 
 
Non-U.S. Fixed Income Portfolio
March 31, 2012
 
Non-U.S. Fixed Income Portfolio
ACE's non-U.S. investment grade fixed income portfolios are currency-matched with the insurance liabilities of ACE's non-U.S. operations.
79% of ACE's non-U.S. fixed income is denominated in G7 currencies.
Average credit quality of non-U.S. fixed income securities is very high at AA and 54% of holdings are rated AAA or guaranteed by governments or quasi-government agencies.
Corporate bond holdings are highly diversified across industries and geographies. Issuer limits are based on credit rating (AA 2%, A 1%, BBB 0.5% of total portfolio) and are monitored on a daily basis by ACE via an internal compliance system.
 
 
Eurozone Non-U.S. Fixed Income Portfolio (Excluding United Kingdom)
 
Note: ACE has no investments in Greece
Top 10 Exposures - Eurozone Banks (Excluding United Kingdom)
 
Top 10 Exposures - Eurozone Corporate (Excluding United Kingdom)
 
 
 
Investment portfolio
Top 25 Exposures - Fixed Maturity Investments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: As of March 31, 2012, there was $1.9 billion usage of credit facilities on a total commitment of $2.4 billion.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Regulation G - Non-GAAP Financial Measures
In presenting our results, we have included and discussed certain non-GAAP measures. These non-GAAP measures, which may be defined differently by other companies, are important for an understanding of our overall results of operations. However, they should not be viewed as a substitute for measures determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). A reconciliation of book value per common share is provided on page 22.
In presenting our segment operating results, we have shown our performance with reference to underwriting results. Underwriting results are calculated by subtracting losses and loss expenses, policy benefits, policy acquisition costs, and administrative expenses from net premiums earned. We use underwriting results and operating ratios to monitor the results of our operations without the impact of certain factors, including investment income, other income and expenses, interest and income tax expense, and net realized gains (losses). Life underwriting income includes net investment income and gains (losses) from fair value changes in separate account assets that do not qualify for separate account reporting under GAAP.
Loss and loss expense ratio excluding the impact of catastrophe losses and prior period development (PPD) is a non-GAAP financial measure. The loss ratio numerator includes Losses and loss expenses adjusted to exclude catastrophe losses and PPD. The loss ratio denominator includes Net premiums earned adjusted to exclude the amount of reinstatement premiums (expensed) collected. In periods where there are adjustments on loss sensitive policies, these adjustments are excluded from PPD and net earned premiums when calculating this ratio. We believe that excluding the impact of catastrophe losses and PPD provides a better evaluation of our core underwriting performance and enhances the understanding of the trends in our property & casualty business that may be obscured by these items.
Annualized ROE calculated using income excluding net realized gains (losses) is a non-GAAP financial measure. The ROE numerator includes income adjusted to exclude net realized gains (losses), net of tax. The ROE denominator includes the average shareholders' equity for the period adjusted to exclude unrealized gains (losses) on investments, net of tax. To annualize a quarterly rate, multiply by four. Annualized ROE calculated using income excluding realized gains (losses), net of tax, is a useful measure as it enhances the understanding of the return on shareholders' equity by highlighting the underlying profitability relative to shareholders' equity excluding the effect of unrealized gains and losses on our investments.
Income excluding net realized gains (losses), net of tax, is a common performance measurement for insurance companies and non-GAAP measure. We believe this presentation enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting the underlying profitability of our insurance business. We exclude net realized gains (losses) and net realized gains (losses) included in other income (expense) related to partially owned entities because the amount of these gains (losses) is heavily influenced by, and fluctuates in part according to, the availability of market opportunities. Income excluding net realized gains (losses) should not be viewed as a substitute for net income determined in accordance with GAAP.
The following table presents the reconciliation of Net income to Income excluding net realized gains (losses):
 
 
 
 
Regulation G - Non-GAAP Financial Measures (continued)
The following table presents the reconciliation of effective tax rate to the effective tax rate on income excluding net realized gains (losses):
 
The following table presents the reconciliation of annualized ROE calculated using net income to annualized ROE calculated using income excluding net realized gains (losses):
 
 
 
Reconciliation of Book Value per Common Share
 
 
 
 
comprises all segments including Corporate and Other.
ACE Limited Consolidated
Income excluding net realized gains (losses), net of tax, divided by average shareholders' equity for the period excluding unrealized gains (losses) on investments, net of tax. To annualize a quarterly rate multiply by four.
Annualized return on equity calculated using income excluding net realized gains (losses):
Shareholders' equity divided by the shares outstanding.
Book value per common share:
Combined Insurance Company of America, acquired April 1, 2008.
Combined Insurance:
The sum of the loss and loss expense ratio, acquisition cost ratio and the administrative expense ratio excluding life business. Calculated on a GAAP basis.
Combined ratio:
Income tax expense excluding tax expense (benefit) on net realized gains (losses) divided by income excluding net realized gains (losses) before tax.
Effective tax rate on income excluding net realized gains (losses):
A group of seven industrialized nations including Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, United Kingdom, and the United States.
G7:
Net premiums earned and net investment income less policy benefits, acquisition costs, and administrative expenses. In addition, Life underwriting income includes gains/losses from fair value changes in separate account assets that do not qualify for separate account reporting under GAAP.
Life underwriting income:
Not meaningful.
NM:
Shareholders' equity less goodwill and other intangible assets divided by the shares outstanding.
Tangible book value per common share:
Total capitalization less goodwill and other intangible assets.
Tangible capital:
Short-term debt, long-term debt, trust preferreds, and shareholders' equity.
Total capitalization:
 


