FILE:ACE/ACE-8K-20120522153453.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(e) At the company's 2012 annual general meeting, the company's shareholders approved the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, as amended through the fourth amendment (the "ESPP"), increasing the number of common shares available for issuance under the ESPP by 1,500,000 shares, which shares are in addition to the 3,000,000 common shares previously reserved under the ESPP. In addition to increasing the number of common shares available for issuance, the fourth amendment adds a provision excluding certain employees who are a citizen or resident of a foreign jurisdiction and makes clarifying and technical changes to certain defined terms and other provisions in the ESPP. A more complete description of the ESPP is contained in company's proxy statement, dated April 4, 2012, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission, under the heading "Amendment to the ACE Limited Employee Stock Purchase Plan," which is hereby incorporated herein by reference. For the full text of the ESPP, see Exhibit 10.1 hereto, which is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
 
At the company's 2012 annual general meeting, the company's shareholders approved an amendment to Article 6 of the Articles of Association to authorize the company's Board of Directors to increase the company's share capital within two years following the 2012 annual general meeting to a maximum amount equal to CHF 4,237,800,000, or 140,000,000 shares. In connection therewith, the company has undertaken to limit the number of shares (to a maximum of 68,000,000) that it will issue pursuant to, and during the two-year effective period of, this Article 6 share capital authorization without either providing the company's shareholders with the opportunity to exercise pre-emptive rights or seeking specific shareholder approval for such issuance, all as further described in the company's proxy statement dated April 4, 2012. The company's amended Articles of Association containing these amendments will become effective with publication in the Swiss Commercial Gazette, retroactive to their registration in the daily register of the Canton of Zurich, Switzerland on May 18, 2012, the same day the company filed these amendments in the Commercial Register of the Canton of Zurich, Switzerland (the "Swiss Commercial Register").
At the company's 2012 annual general meeting, the company's shareholders also prospectively approved amendments to the company's Articles of Association in conjunction with their approval of payments of a dividend in the form of distribution through par value reduction, as further described in the company's proxy statement dated April 4, 2012. Such amendments will become effective with the registration of each quarterly par value reduction in the Swiss Commercial Register.
A copy of the amended Articles of Association is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
The company convened its annual general meeting of shareholders on May 16, 2012 pursuant to notice duly given. The matters voted upon at the meeting and the results of such voting are set forth below:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Under the company's Articles of Association, shareholder approval of proposals is generally determined by simple majority of votes cast, such that abstentions and broker non-votes are disregarded in the tabulation of the vote to determine approval. The exceptions to this are matters for which a specific vote requirement or tabulation is required by applicable law or by specific provision of the Articles of Association. At the 2012 annual general meeting, abstentions and broker non-votes were not considered in the vote (and thus should be disregarded) with respect for all items above, other than Agenda Item No. 5. With respect to Agenda Item No. 5, which under Article 16 of the company's Articles of Association required the affirmative vote of two-thirds of the votes present (in person or by proxy), broker non-votes and abstentions had the effect of "against" votes because they were counted as present but were not counted as affirmative "for" votes.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
 
DATE: May 22, 2012
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
 
2
 
3
 
4
 
5
 
6
 
7
 
8
 
9
 
10
 
11
 
12
 
13
 
14
 
15
 
16
 
17
 
18
 
19
 
20
 
21

Exhibit 10.1
1.1. . The ACE Limited Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "Plan") has been established by ACE Limited (the "Company") to provide eligible employees of the Company and the Related Companies with an opportunity to acquire a proprietary interest in the Company through the purchase of common shares of the Company ("Stock"). The Plan is intended to qualify as an employee stock purchase plan under section 423 of the Code, and the provisions of the Plan are to be construed in a manner consistent with the requirements of that section.
Purpose
1.2. . The operation and administration of the Plan shall be subject to the provisions of Section 3. Capitalized terms in the Plan shall be defined as set forth in Section 6 or elsewhere in the Plan.
Operation and Administration
2.1. . Plan participation shall be available to (and shall be limited to) all persons who are employees of the Employers, except that the following persons shall not be eligible to participate in the Plan:
Eligibility
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this subsection 2.1, an individual may participate in the Plan for any Subscription Period only if he is employed by an Employer on the first day of that period.
2.2. . The Committee shall establish "Subscription Periods" of not longer than one year for the accumulation of funds necessary for payment of the Purchase Price (as defined in subsection 2.3) of Stock under the Plan. For any Subscription Period, an eligible employee shall become a Plan Participant' by filing, with the Committee, a written payroll deduction authorization with respect to Compensation otherwise payable to the Participant during the period. Such payroll deductions shall be any full percentage of the Compensation of the Participant, or any specified whole dollar amount, up to but not more than 10% of his Compensation in either case. After the beginning of the Subscription Period, and except as otherwise provided in subsection 2.4, a Participant may not alter the rate of his payroll deductions for that period. Subject to the limitations of subsection 2.3, each eligible employee who has elected to become a Participant for a Subscription
Participation Election
Period in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this subsection 2.2 shall be granted on the first day of such Subscription Period an option to purchase (at the applicable Purchase Price) on the Exercise Date (as defined in subsection 2.3) for such Subscription Period up to a number of whole shares of Stock determined by dividing such Participant's accumulated payroll deductions as of such Exercise Date by the applicable Purchase Price. Exercise of the option shall occur as provided in subsection 2.3, unless the Participant has terminated participation in the Plan prior to the Exercise Date as provided in subsection 2.4 or the Participant elects not to exercise the option as provided in subsection 2.3(b). The option shall expire on the last day of the Subscription Period.
2.3. . On the last day of each Subscription Period (the "Exercise Date"), a Participant shall become eligible to exercise his option to purchase the number of whole shares of Stock as his accumulated payroll deductions for the Subscription Period will purchase, subject to the following:
Purchase of Stock
 
 
 
 
2.4. . A Participant may discontinue his participation in the Plan for any Subscription Period, whereupon all of the Participant's payroll deductions for the Subscription Period will be promptly paid to him without interest, and no further payroll deductions will be made from his pay for that period. If a Participant's employment with the Employers terminates during a Subscription Period for any reason, all payroll deductions accumulated by the Participant under the Plan for the period shall be paid to the Participant without interest.
Termination of Participation
3.1. . Subject to the approval of the shareholders of the Company at the Company's 1996 annual meeting of its shareholders, the Plan shall be effective as of the date on which it is adopted by the Board; provided, however, that to the extent that rights are granted under the Plan prior to its approval by shareholders, they shall be contingent on approval of the Plan by the shareholders of the Company. The Plan shall be unlimited in duration and, in the event of Plan termination, shall remain in effect as long as any rights granted under the Plan are outstanding.
Effective Date
3.2. . Shares of Stock to be purchased under the Plan shall be subject to the following:
Shares Subject to Plan
 
 
3.3. .
Adjustments to Shares
(a) If the Company shall effect any subdivision or consolidation of shares of Stock or other capital readjustment, payment of stock dividend, stock split, combination of shares or recapitalization or other increase or reduction of the number of shares of Stock outstanding without receiving compensation therefor in money, services or property, then, subject to the requirements of Code section 423, the Committee shall adjust the number of shares of Stock available under the Plan.
(b) If the Company is reorganized, merged or consolidated or is party to a plan of exchange with another corporation, pursuant to which reorganization, merger, consolidation or plan of exchange the shareholders of the Company receive any shares of stock or other securities or property, or the Company shall distribute securities of another corporation to its shareholders, then, subject to the requirements of Code section 423, there shall be substituted for the shares subject to outstanding rights to purchase Stock under the Plan an appropriate number of shares of each class of stock or amount of other securities or property which were distributed to the shareholders of the Company in respect of such shares.
3.4. . Distribution of shares of Stock or other amounts under the Plan shall be subject to the following:
Limit on Distribution
 
 
 
3.5. . All benefits under the Plan are subject to withholding of all applicable taxes.
Withholding
3.6. . Except as otherwise permitted under Code section 424 and SEC Rule 16b-3, neither the amount of any payroll deductions made with respect to a Participant's compensation nor any Participant's rights to purchase shares of Stock under the Plan may be pledged or hypothecated, nor may they be assigned or transferred other than by will and the laws of descent and distribution. During the lifetime of the Participant, the rights provided to the Participant under the Plan may be exercised only by him.
Transferability
3.7. .
Limitation of Implied Rights
(a) Neither a Participant nor any other person shall, by reason of the Plan, acquire any right in or title to any assets, funds or property of the Employers whatsoever, including, without limitation, any specific funds, assets, or other property which the Employers, in their sole discretion, may set aside in anticipation of a liability under
the Plan. A Participant shall have only a contractual right to the amounts, if any, payable under the Plan, unsecured by any assets of the Employers. Nothing contained in the Plan shall constitute a guarantee by any of the Employers that the assets of the Employers shall be sufficient to pay any benefits to any person.
(b) The Plan does not constitute a contract of employment, and participation in the Plan will not give any employee the right to be retained in the employ of an Employer or any Related Company, nor any right or claim to any benefit under the Plan, unless such right or claim has specifically accrued under the terms of the Plan. Except as otherwise provided in the Plan, no right to purchase shares under the Plan shall confer upon the holder thereof any right as a shareholder of the Company prior to the date on which he fulfills all service requirements and other conditions for receipt of such rights.
3.8. . Evidence required of anyone under the Plan may be by certificate, affidavit, document or other information which the person acting on it considers pertinent and reliable, and signed, made or presented by the proper party or parties.
Evidence
3.9. . Any action required or permitted to be taken by any Employer shall be by resolution of its board of directors, or by action of one or more members of the board (including a committee of the board) who are duly authorized to act for the board, or (except to the extent prohibited by the provisions of Rule 16b-3, applicable local law, the applicable rules of any stock exchange, or any other applicable rules) by a duly authorized officer of the Employer.
Action by Employers
3.10. . Where the context admits, words in any gender shall include any other gender, words in the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular.
Gender and Number
4.1. . The authority to control and manage the operation and administration of the Plan shall be vested in a committee (the "Committee") in accordance with this Section 4.
Administration
4.2. . The Committee shall be selected by the Board, and shall consist of not less than two members of the Board, or such greater number as may be required for compliance with SEC Rule 16b-3.
Selection of Committee
4.3. . The authority to manage and control the operation and administration of the Plan shall be vested in the Committee, subject to the following:
Powers of Committee
 
 
 
4.4. . Except to the extent prohibited by the provisions of Rule 16b-3, applicable local law, the applicable rules of any stock exchange, or any other applicable rules, the Committee may allocate all or any portion of its responsibilities and powers to any one or more of its members and may delegate all or any part of its responsibilities and powers to any person or persons selected by it. Any such allocation or delegation may be revoked by the Committee at any time.
Delegation by Committee
4.5. . The Employers and Related Companies shall furnish the Committee with such data and information as may be required for it to discharge its duties. The records of the Employers and Related Companies as to an employee's or Participant's employment, termination of employment, leave of absence, reemployment and compensation shall be conclusive on all persons unless determined to be incorrect. Participants and other persons entitled to benefits under the Plan must furnish the Committee such evidence, data or information as the Committee considers desirable to carry out the terms of the Plan.
Information to be Furnished to Committee
4.6. . No member or authorized delegate of the Committee shall be liable to any person for any action taken or omitted in connection with the administration of the Plan unless attributable to his own fraud or willful misconduct; nor shall the Employers be liable to any person for any such action unless attributable to fraud or willful misconduct on the part of a director or employee of the Employers. The Committee, the individual members thereof, and persons acting as the authorized delegates of the Committee under the Plan, shall be indemnified by the Employers, to the fullest extent permitted by law, against any and all liabilities, losses, costs and expenses (including legal fees and expenses) of whatsoever kind and nature which may be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against the Committee or its members or authorized delegates by reason of the performance of a Committee function if the Committee or its members or authorized delegates did not act dishonestly or in willful violation of the law or regulation under which such liability, loss, cost or expense arises. This indemnification shall not duplicate but may supplement any coverage available under any applicable insurance.
Liability and Indemnification of Committee
The Board may, at any time, amend or terminate the Plan, provided that, subject to subsection 3.3 (relating to certain adjustments to shares), no amendment or termination may adversely affect the rights of any Participant or beneficiary with respect to shares that have been purchased prior to the date such amendment is adopted by the Board. No amendment of the Plan may be made without approval of the Company's shareholders to the extent that such approval is required to maintain compliance with the requirements of Code section 423.
For purposes of the Plan, the terms listed below shall be defined as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


