FILE:A/A-8K-20020913163617.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
Item 5. Other Events.
On September 13, 2002, each of Chief Executive Officer, Edward W. Barnholt and Chief Financial Officer, Adrian T. Dillon, of Agilent Technologies, Inc. submitted to the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") sworn statements pursuant to SEC order No. 4-460 (the "Statements").
A copy of each of these Statements is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and 99.2, respectively.
Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits
     (a)  Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

EXHIBIT 99.1 STATEMENT UNDER OATH OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER REGARDING FACTS AND CIRCUMSTANCES RELATING TO EXCHANGE ACT FILINGS I, Edward W. Barnholt, state and attest that: (1) To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of Agilent Technologies, Inc., and, except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report: - no covered report contained an untrue statement of a material fact as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed); and - no covered report omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements in the covered report, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed). (2) I have reviewed the contents of this statement with the Company's audit committee. (3) In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement, is a "covered report": - the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2001 of Agilent Technologies, Inc.; - all reports on Form 10-Q, all reports on Form 8-K and all definitive proxy materials of Agilent Technologies, Inc. filed with the Commission subsequent to the filing of the Form 10-K identified above; and - any amendments to any of the foregoing. /s/ Edward W. Barnholt Subscribed and sworn to - -------------------- before me this 13th day of Edward W. Barnholt September 2002. President and Chief Executive Officer /s/ Susan Matthew Hemstreet --------------------------- Notary Public September 13, 2002 My Commission Expires: May 3, 2003 -----------

EXHIBIT 99.2 STATEMENT UNDER OATH OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER REGARDING FACTS AND CIRCUMSTANCES RELATING TO EXCHANGE ACT FILINGS I, Adrian T. Dillon, state and attest that: (1) To the best of my knowledge, based upon a review of the covered reports of Agilent Technologies, Inc., and, except as corrected or supplemented in a subsequent covered report: - no covered report contained an untrue statement of a material fact as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed); and - no covered report omitted to state a material fact necessary to make the statements in the covered report, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading as of the end of the period covered by such report (or in the case of a report on Form 8-K or definitive proxy materials, as of the date on which it was filed). (2) I have reviewed the contents of this statement with the Company's audit committee. (3) In this statement under oath, each of the following, if filed on or before the date of this statement, is a "covered report": - the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2001 of Agilent Technologies, Inc.; - all reports on Form 10-Q, all reports on Form 8-K and all definitive proxy materials of Agilent Technologies, Inc. filed with the Commission subsequent to the filing of the Form 10-K identified above; and - any amendments to any of the foregoing. Subscribed and sworn to /s/ Adrian T. Dillon before me this 13th day of - -------------------- September 2002. Adrian T. Dillon Executive Vice President /s/ Susan Matthew Hemstreet and Chief Financial Officer --------------------------- Notary Public September 13, 2002 My Commission Expires: May 3, 2003 -----------


