FILE:A/A-8K-20030225170721.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
     
Item 5.
Other Events.
     On February 21, 2003, Agilent Technologies, Inc. (the "Company") announced its results for the three months ended January 31, 2003. Information regarding such results and a copy of the financial statements of the Company for the three months ended January 31, 2003 is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
     
Item 7.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(a)   Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: February 25, 2003
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1 On February 21, 2003, Agilent Technologies Inc. reported orders of $1.36 billion and revenue of $1.41 billion for the fiscal first quarter ended Jan. 31, 2003. After $12 million of non-cash amortization charges and $42 million of restructuring expenses, the net first quarter loss from continuing operations was $112 million, or $0.24 per share on a generally accepted accounting principle (GAAP)basis. In addition, the company took a $257 million one-time goodwill write-off in the quarter related to the adoption of a new accounting rule, SFAS 142. "Our first quarter results were disappointing," said Ned Barnholt, Agilent chairman, president and chief executive officer. "Orders were weaker than expected due to a general climate of uncertainty. In addition, margin pressures continued to impact several of our businesses. Based on these results, we are taking additional aggressive cost-cutting actions to return Agilent to profitability during the second half of this year." Barnholt said that Agilent's orders were down 22 percent compared to a year ago in the Americas, about flat in Europe and up 7 percent in Asia. "Our first quarter results reflect a collective hesitation by many of our customers, who are deferring capital expenditures. Geopolitical uncertainty, on top of the general economic weakness we've experienced in the last year and a half, has resulted in a continuing pattern of weak orders." While all of Agilent's business segments were relatively soft in the first quarter, the company said it saw particular weakness in its semiconductor equipment, test and measurement, and chemical analysis businesses compared to prior expectations. To date, Agilent has achieved about $1.25 billion of annualized savings from its previously announced restructuring programs. The company said it had expected to finish this year with a normalized quarterly breakeven cost structure of about $1.57 billion. The new actions Agilent will take in the next few months will reduce the workforce by an additional 4,000 jobs and bring the company's cost structure down an additional $125 million per quarter in order to achieve a fourth quarter breakeven cost structure of $1.45 billion. Segment Results Test and Measurement (in millions of dollars) First quarter Test and Measurement orders were down 8 percent from one year ago and were off 12 percent from the seasonally strong fourth quarter. By market segment, communications test, buoyed by the still strong Asian wireless market, was stronger than general purpose test. Within general purpose test, U.S. government spending was particularly weak. First quarter revenues of $633 million were down 7 percent from last year and off 15 percent sequentially. Restructuring actions helped offset the impact of lower volumes and intense competitive pressures on operating results. The first quarter operating loss of $132 million was $39 million below last year despite $51 million lower revenues. Sequentially, the first quarter operating loss increased a relatively modest $25 million, considering the $114 million reduction in revenues. Additional restructuring, combined with the actions already underway, is expected to bring Test and Measurement to a breakeven by the fourth quarter of this year.
Automated Test (in millions of dollars) First quarter Automated Test orders of $115 million were down 38 percent from the very strong pace of one year earlier, and were off 24 percent sequentially. Automated Test's book-to-bill ratio of 0.85 was consistent with the industry results through January recently reported by Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International (2). The volatility in Automated Test segment orders was due to both the system-on-a-chip (SOC) business, which was down 45 percent from last year but up 31 percent from the prior quarter, and from our flash memory test business, which was down sharply versus both prior year and the prior quarter due to the lumpiness of customer orders. Excluding flash memory test, segment orders were flat sequentially. Revenues of $136 million were about flat with a year ago and off 38 percent sequentially because of declining orders. The first quarter operating loss of $48 million was $4 million greater than last year. Semiconductor Products (in millions of dollars) Semiconductor Products' orders of $381 million were 10 percent above last year and up 5 percent sequentially. Revenues of $367 million were 12 percent higher than one year ago but off 22 percent from strong fourth quarter 2002 results. The book-to-bill ratio of 1.04 compares to 0.77 in the fourth quarter and 1.06 one year ago. Operating results were affected by the decline in ASIC business and the cost of ramping production to meet strong demand for the FBAR filter and E-pHEMT power module. The operating loss of $48 million compares to a $61 million loss one year ago and $21 million of operating profits in the prior quarter. Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis (in millions of dollars) Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis orders of $268 million were 7 percent below one year ago and off 13 percent from the seasonally strong fourth quarter. Within the segment, orders for chemical analytical systems were particularly weak, down 9 percent from a year ago and 13 percent sequentially, as customers delayed spending due to higher oil prices, and geopolitical and economic uncertainty. Pharmaceutical companies also slowed spending in the quarter, with total Life Sciences orders off 3 percent from a year ago and 13 percent sequentially. Revenues of $276 million were flat with a year ago and down 7 percent sequentially. Operating profits of $34 million were about equal to a year ago and off only $9 million sequentially, despite a $22 million decline in revenues.
Agilent ended the quarter with $1.75 billion in cash and equivalents, and generated more than $220 million from the reduction in receivables and inventories. About Agilent Technologies Agilent Technologies Inc. (NYSE: A) is a global technology leader in communications, electronics and life sciences. The company's 35,000 employees serve customers in more than 110 countries. Agilent had net revenue of $6 billion in fiscal year 2002. Agilent management will host a live webcast of its quarterly conference call with the investment community in listen-only mode today at 7 a.m. (PT). Listeners may log on at www.investor.agilent.com and select "conference calls." The webcast will remain on the company site for seven days. A telephone replay of the conference call will be available starting at 11 a.m. (PT) on Feb. 21 through Feb. 28 by dialing +1 719 457 0820 and entering pass code 101496. Safe Harbor Statement This Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements (including, without limitation, information regarding projected workforce reductions and breakeven) that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause results of Agilent to differ materially from management's current expectations. In addition, other risks that Agilent faces in running its operations include: the ability to execute successfully through the current economic downturn and an upturn while it continues to implement significant workforce reductions, the ability to meet and achieve the benefits of its cost reduction goals and otherwise successfully adapt its cost structures to continuing changes in business conditions, the risk that our cost-cutting initiatives will impair our ability to develop products and remain competitive, increasing competitive, pricing and gross margin pressures, the successful implementation of Agilent's ERP and CRM systems and the ability to realize the benefits from these and other IT systems investments, the ability to improve asset performance to adapt to the current economic slowdown and other changes in demand, the ability to successfully introduce new products at the right time and with the right mix, and other risks detailed in the company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Oct. 31, 2002 and its Current Reports on Form 8-K dated Jan. 24 and Feb. 10, 2003. The company assumes no obligation to update the information in this Form 8-K. # # # (1) before restructuring charges in all periods (2) according to Semiconductor Equipment and Materials International press release dated Feb. 18, 2002 (see http://www.semi.org).
AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS) (UNAUDITED) Historical amounts have been reclassified to conform with current period presentation.
AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PAR VALUE AND SHARE AMOUNTS) (UNAUDITED)
AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (IN MILLIONS) (UNAUDITED) * Cash payments for restructuring included in operating activities: 43
AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. TEST AND MEASUREMENT INFORMATION (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PERCENT CHANGES) (UNAUDITED) Loss from operations reflect the results of our reportable segments under Agilent's management reporting system which are not necessarily in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). Loss from operations of our reporting segments excludes restructuring, amortization of intangibles, other one-time and non-operational charges and some residual corporate charges. In general, recorded orders represent firm purchase commitments from our customers with established terms and conditions for products and services that will be delivered within six months. Historical amounts have been reclassified to conform with current period presentation.
AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. SEMICONDUCTOR PRODUCTS INFORMATION (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PERCENT CHANGES) (UNAUDITED) Loss from operations reflect the results of our reportable segments under Agilent's management reporting system which are not necessarily in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). Loss from operations of our reporting segments excludes restructuring, amortization of intangibles, other one-time and non-operational charges and some residual corporate charges. In general, recorded orders represent firm purchase commitments from our customers with established terms and conditions for products that will be delivered within six months. Historical amounts have been reclassified to conform with current period presentation.
AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. AUTOMATED TEST INFORMATION (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PERCENT CHANGES) (UNAUDITED) Loss from operations reflect the results of our reportable segments under Agilent's management reporting system which are not necessarily in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). Loss from operations of our reporting segments excludes restructuring, amortization of intangibles, other one-time and non-operational charges and some residual corporate charges. In general, recorded orders represent firm purchase commitments from our customers with established terms and conditions for products and services that will be delivered within six months. Historical amounts have been reclassified to conform with current period presentation.
AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. LIFE SCIENCES AND CHEMICAL ANALYSIS INFORMATION (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PERCENT CHANGES) (UNAUDITED) Loss from operations reflect the results of our reportable segments under Agilent's management reporting system which are not necessarily in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). Loss from operations of our reporting segments excludes restructuring, amortization of intangibles, other one-time and non-operational charges and some residual corporate charges. In general, recorded orders represent firm purchase commitments from our customers with established terms and conditions for products and services that will be delivered within six months. Historical amounts have been reclassified to conform with current period presentation.
AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. ORDERS AND NET REVENUE FROM CONTINUING OPERATIONS BY GEOGRAPHY FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED JANUARY 31 (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PERCENT CHANGES) (UNAUDITED) In general, recorded orders represent firm purchase commitments from our customers with established terms and conditions for products and services that will be delivered within six months.


