FILE:A/A-8K-20050120164434.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
On January 19, 2005, Agilent Technologies, Inc. (the "Company" or "Agilent") announced that, effective March 1, 2005, immediately after the annual meeting of stockholders of the Company, Edward W. Barnholt will step down as a Director, Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer of Agilent. At that time, William P. Sullivan, 55, who is currently Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer, will succeed Mr. Barnholt as a member of the Board of Directors, President and Chief Executive Officer of Agilent and a member of the Executive Committee. Mr. Barnholt will be Chairman Emeritus to help with the transition.
 
James G. Cullen, 62, who has served on Agilent's Board of Directors since 2000, will assume the position of non-executive chairman effective immediately after the Company's annual meeting on March 1, 2005.
 
Mr. Sullivan has served as Agilent's Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since March 2002. In this capacity, he shares the responsibilities of the president's office with Agilent President and Chief Executive Officer Edward W. Barnholt. Mr. Sullivan also has overall responsibility for Agilent's Electronic Products and Solutions Group, the company's largest business group. Prior to assuming this position, Mr. Sullivan served as Agilent's Senior Vice President, Semiconductor Products Group from August 1999 to March 2002. Before that, Mr. Sullivan held various management positions at Hewlett-Packard. Mr. Sullivan serves on the Board of the Children's Discovery Museum in San Jose, California.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Exhibit
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date: January 20, 2005
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Amy Flores
+1 650 752 5303
amy_flores@agilent.com
 
 
 
PALO ALTO, Calif., Jan. 19, 2005  Agilent Technologies Inc. (NYSE: A) today announced that its board of directors has elected William P. (Bill) Sullivan as the company's next president and chief executive officer, effective March 1, 2005. Sullivan, 55, currently Agilent's executive vice president and chief operating officer, succeeds Edward W. (Ned) Barnholt, who has announced his retirement as chairman, president and CEO of the company he helped launch following its spin-off from Hewlett-Packard in 1999. Barnholt, 61, had previously been an executive vice president of HP and the general manager of its measurement organization that incorporated all of Agilent's business groups.
 
"The past six years as Agilent's CEO have been rewarding ones for me," said Barnholt. "While I will miss this important part of my life, I look forward to what lies ahead. I leave Agilent with a great sense of pride in terms of what we have accomplished. We are financially sound, we have a leaner, more flexible organization, and we have extended our market leadership through continued innovation. We have achieved this thanks to the hard work and dedication of all our outstanding employees around the world.
 
"It's the right time for me to step down, and Bill Sullivan is clearly the right person to lead the company forward," added Barnholt. "He has a proven track record of results, experience in multiple businesses, and strong leadership skills. After many years at HP and Agilent, Bill understands our company very well. I look forward to working with him through the transition."
 
James G. Cullen, 62, who has served on Agilent's board of directors since 2000, will assume the position of non-executive chairman upon Barnholt's retirement in March. At that time, Sullivan will join the board. Barnholt will stay on as chairman emeritus as long as needed to ensure a smooth transition.
 
In addition to his current responsibilities as executive vice president and COO of Agilent, Sullivan has had overall responsibility for the Electronic Products and Solutions Group (EPSG), Agilent's largest business group. He has been instrumental in returning this business to financial health and in helping to lead the company's operational transformation. Sullivan was formerly senior vice president and general manager of Agilent's Semiconductor Products Group. He joined Hewlett-Packard in 1976, and during the course of his career developed considerable expertise in telecommunications, data communications, computers and semiconductors.
 
"I want to acknowledge the tremendous contribution that Ned Barnholt has made to Agilent," said Sullivan. "It has been a privilege to work with him. The past six years have been a roller-coaster ride for all of us, but under Ned's leadership, the company was successfully launched, navigated the downturn and transformed all of its major operations. Agilent is now stronger than ever and is well positioned for future success.
 
"I am delighted and honored to have the opportunity to lead Agilent, one of the world's premier technology companies," Sullivan added. "This is a great organization and I look forward to continuing my work with the outstanding Agilent team."
Sullivan, who was born in Yakima, Wash., received a Bachelor of Science degree from the University of California at Davis.
 
About Agilent Technologies
 
Agilent Technologies Inc. (NYSE: A) is a global technology leader in communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis. The company's 28,000 employees serve customers in more than 110 countries. Agilent had net revenue of $7.2 billion in fiscal year 2004. Information about Agilent is available on the Web at www.agilent.com.
 
 
NOTE TO EDITORS: Further technology, corporate citizenship and executive news is available on the Agilent news site at www.agilent.com/go/news.


