FILE:A/A-8K-20060213061216.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240-14d-2(b))
o
 
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The information in this Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto is furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
On February 13, 2006, Agilent Technologies, Inc. (the "Company") issued its press release announcing financial results for the three months ended January 31, 2006.  A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
We provide non-GAAP financial information in order to provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance and to enhance our investors' overall understanding of our core current financial performance and our prospects for the future. We believe that our investors benefit from seeing our results "through the eyes" of management in addition to the GAAP presentation. Management measures segment and enterprise performance using measures such as those that are disclosed in this release. This information facilitates management's internal comparisons to the company's historical operating results and comparisons to competitors' operating results. Non-GAAP information allows for greater transparency to supplemental information used by management in its financial and operational decision making. Historically, we have reported similar non-GAAP information to our investors and believe that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting.
 
This information is not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. It excludes items, such as restructuring and amortization, that may have a material effect on the company's earnings and earnings per share calculated in accordance with GAAP. Management monitors these items to ensure that expenses are in line with expectations and that our GAAP results are correctly stated but does not use them to measure the ongoing operating performance of the company. The non-GAAP information we provide may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
 
Additional explanation of non-GAAP information is provided in Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following is furnished as an exhibit to this report and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended:
 
99.1  Press release announcing financial results for the three months ended January 31, 2006.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date: February 13, 2006
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
EDITORIAL CONTACTS:                                                          PRGP06005
 
Amy Flores
+1 650 283 2413
amy_flores@agilent.com
 
Jorgen Tesselaar (Europe and Asia)
+31 20 547 2825
jorgen_tesselaar@agilent.com
 
INVESTOR CONTACT:
 
Hilliard Terry
+1 650 752 5329
hilliard_terry@agilent.com
 
 
(NYSE: A) today reported orders of $1.35 billion for the first fiscal quarter ended Jan. 31, 2006, 15 percent above one year ago.  Revenues during the quarter were $1.34 billion, 10 percent above last year.  First quarter GAAP net earnings were $2.82 billion, or $5.83 per diluted share, compared with $103 million, or $0.21 per share, in last year's first quarter.
PALO ALTO, Calif., Feb. 13, 2006 Agilent Technologies Inc.
 
During the first quarter, Agilent sold its Semiconductor Products business for $2.7 billion and its 47 percent share of Lumileds for approximately $1.0 billion.  The pre-tax gain on the sale of these businesses was approximately $2.7 billion.  Also included in GAAP results are $63 million of charges related to the planned spin-off of Semiconductor Test Solutions (STS) and the reduction of Agilent's infrastructure costs.  Excluding these charges and $36 million of non-cash stock compensation expenses, Agilent reported first quarter adjusted net income of $154 million, or $0.32 per share.  On a comparable basis, the company earned $71 million, or $0.15 per share, one year ago. (1)
 
"We are pleased with Agilent's performance in the first quarter of 2006," said Bill Sullivan, Agilent president and chief executive officer.  "We successfully completed the semiconductor-related divestitures and a self -tender offer that returned $3 billion of cash to our owners.  Operationally, we also performed to our commitments, with revenues and adjusted net income at the high end of our expectations after reflecting fewer shares outstanding during the quarter."
 
Sullivan noted that gross margins were at the highest level in five years, that working capital ratios were at a first quarter record low, and that the company achieved its targeted 21 percent Return on Invested Capital(2) during the quarter.  "With backlog at its highest level in 1  years and a continued rapid pace of new product introductions, we are well positioned for the second quarter and 2006."
 
For the second quarter of fiscal 2006, the company expects revenues (including STS) in the range of $1.37 billion to $1.43 billion, up 6 to 12 percent from last year.  Adjusted net income is expected to be in the range of $0.35 to $0.40 per share(3), roughly double last year's comparable earnings. For the full year, the company remains comfortable with the range of analyst estimates for adjusted net income.  Preparations for a planned spin-off of STS continue on schedule, with an initial public offering expected to take place near mid-year 2006.
 
Segment Results
(4)
 
Bio-Analytical Measurement
($ millions except where noted)
 
 
Momentum in Bio-Analytical Measurement was mixed during the first quarter of 2006.  Orders of $378 million were 6 percent above last year and up 11 percent in local currency terms.  Life Sciences orders were up 9
percent, with modest growth from traditional pharmaceutical customers, sustained strength from generic pharmaceutical companies, and accelerating demand for proteomics and genomics products from biotech firms.  Chemical Analysis orders rose 4 percent, with an 8 percent increase in platform sales partially offset by delayed service agreement renewals during the quarter.  Revenues of $373 million were up 5 percent from last year.
 
Segment income from operations of $52 million was $1 million above last year.  A one-point improvement in gross margins was more than offset by a $12 million increase in operating expenses to fund recent acquisitions, for planned new product introductions and for incremental investments in molecular diagnostics.  The first quarter's 14 percent operating margin was equal to last year, while segment Return On Invested Capital (2)fell one point to a still attractive 28 percent.
 
On Feb. 1, 2006, Agilent completed the purchase of Yokogawa Electric Company's 49 percent ownership of Yokogawa Analytical Systems (YAN) for $98 million.
 
Electronic Measurement
(4)
($ millions except where noted)
 
 
Electronic Measurement continued to show good momentum in the first quarter, with orders of $799 million up 8 percent from last year; excluding the impact of a higher dollar, local currency orders were up 11 percent from one year ago.  Communications test orders were up 6 percent, with strength in wireless offset by flat wireline test orders.  General purpose test orders were up 12 percent from one year ago, with strength in Aerospace / Defense and across the oscilloscope product line.  Revenues of $794 million were up only 2 percent from last year due in part to the early Chinese New Year, which impacted deliveries to Asian customers, and to the lumpiness of Operations Support Systems revenues.  Backlog has increased 10 percent over the past year.
First quarter income from operations of $89 million was up $21 million on a $14 million increase in revenue.  Gross margin improved 4 points to 55 percent, and segment operating margin rose 2  points to 11 percent. ROIC (2) improved 7 points to 18 percent based on better operating margins and reductions in working capital.
 
Semiconductor Test Solutions
(4)
($ millions except where noted)
 
 
The rebound in Semiconductor Test Solutions continued to gain momentum in the first quarter, with orders of $176 million up 115 percent from last year.  SOC orders were up 114 percent from last year, with the new PinScale platform representing over 80 percent of new orders.  Memory test orders were up 98 percent, with virtually all orders for the new V5000 series platform.  Revenues of $169 million were 117 percent above one year ago.  Segment book-to-bill of 1.04 compares with an industry average of 0.95.
 
Segment income of $16 million compares with a $40 million loss one year ago.  Gross margins doubled from last year to 44 percent and included an $8 million charge for the discontinuance of certain products, while operating expenses were flat over the period.  Operating margin improved to 9 percent.  Return On Invested Capital(2) during the quarter reached 17 percent.
 
About Agilent Technologies
 
(NYSE: A) is the world's premier measurement company and a technology leader in communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis. The company's 20,000 employees serve customers in more than 110 countries. Agilent had net revenue of $5.1
Agilent Technologies Inc.
billion in fiscal 2005. Information about Agilent is available on the Web at www.agilent.com.
 
Agilent Management will present more details on its first-quarter FY2006 financial results later this morning at its analyst meeting in New York City beginning at 8 a.m. (Eastern).  The event will be webcast live in listen-only mode.  Listeners may log on at www.investor.agilent.com and select "Agilent Analyst Meeting and Q1 Earnings Release."  The webcast will remain available on the company's website for 90 days.
 
A telephone replay of the first half of the meeting during which the Q1 results will be discussed will be available from 2 p.m. (Eastern) today through Feb. 20, 2006.  The replay number is (888) 286-8010 (for international, dial +1(617) 801-6888); enter passcode 36010187.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is subject to the safe harbors created therein. The forward-looking statements contained herein include, but are not limited to, information regarding Agilent's future revenues, earnings and profitability; the pace of new product introductions and future demand for the Company's products and services; the planned spin-off of the Company's Semiconductor Test Solutions business, including the timing of the initial public offering of that business and completion of the spin-off; the Company's revenue and earnings (on a segment and consolidated basis) guidance for the second quarter of fiscal year 2006 and earnings guidance for fiscal year 2006; the Company's opportunities in fiscal year 2006; and future demand for the Company's products and services. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause Agilent's results to differ materially from management's current expectations. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, unforeseen changes in the strength of our customers' businesses; unforeseen changes in the demand for current and new products and technologies; changes in the planned spin-off of the Semiconductor Test Solutions business, including complications in connection with the separation of STS assets from the Company and
difficulties or delays in the expected IPO process due to market conditions or regulatory delays.
 
In addition, other risks that Agilent faces in running its operations include the ability to execute successfully through business cycles while it continues to implement cost reductions; the ability to meet and achieve the benefits of its cost-reduction goals and otherwise successfully adapt its cost structures to continuing changes in business conditions; ongoing competitive, pricing and gross margin pressures; the risk that our cost-cutting initiatives will impair our ability to develop products and remain competitive and to operate effectively; the impact of geopolitical uncertainties on our operations, our markets and our ability to conduct business, the ability to improve asset performance to adapt to changes in demand; the ability to successfully introduce new products at the right time, price and mix, and other risks detailed in Agilent's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Oct. 31, 2005. Forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of Agilent's management and on currently available information. Agilent undertakes no responsibility to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.
 
 
(1) Adjusted net income and adjusted net income per share are non-GAAP measures. Adjusted net income is defined to exclude primarily the impacts of restructuring and asset impairment charges, non-cash stock based compensation, intangible amortization as well as gains and losses from the sale of investments and disposals of businesses net of their tax effects. A reconciliation between adjusted net income and GAAP net income is set forth on page 4 of the attached tables along with additional information regarding the use of this non-GAAP measure.
 
(2)Return On Invested Capital is a non-GAAP measure and is defined as income (loss) from operations less other (income) expense and taxes annualized divided by the average of the two most recent quarter-end balances of assets less net current liabilities. The reconciliation of ROIC can be found on page 5 of the attached tables, along with additional information regarding the use of this non-GAAP measure.
(3)Adjusted net income per share as projected for Q206 is a non-GAAP measure which excludes primarily the impacts of future restructuring and asset impairment charges, non-cash stock based compensation and intangible amortization.  Most of these excluded amounts pertain to events that have not yet occurred and are not currently possible to estimate with a reasonable degree of accuracy. Therefore, no reconciliation to GAAP amounts has been provided.  Future amortization of intangibles is expected to be approximately $5 million per quarter.
 
(4) Historical segment data have been restated to correspond to current presentation.
 
NOTE TO EDITORS: Further technology, corporate citizenship and executive news is available on the Agilent news site at www.agilent.com/go/news.
 
 
 
Historical amounts were reclassified to conform with current period presentation.
 
Income from continuing operations for the first quarter of fiscal 2006 included pre-tax share-based compensation expense under SFAS 123(R) of $36 million related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases.
 
The preliminary income statement is estimated based on our current information.
 
 
The preliminary balance sheet is estimated based on our current information.
 
 
The preliminary cash flow statement is estimated based on our current information.
 
 
We provide adjusted net income and adjusted net income per share amounts in order to provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance and our prospects for the future. These supplemental measures exclude, among other things, the impact of the sale of our businesses and investments from the results of the sales of our products. Some of the exclusions, such as impairments, may be beyond the control of management. Further, some may be less predictable than revenue derived from our core businesses (the day to day business of selling our products and services). These reasons provide the basis for management's belief that the measures are useful.
 
Our management uses non-GAAP measures to evaluate the performance of our core businesses, to estimate future core performance and to compensate employees. Since management finds this measure to be useful, we believe that our investors benefit from seeing our results "through the eyes" of management in addition to seeing our GAAP results. This information facilitates our management's internal comparisons to our historical operating results as well as to the operating results of our competitors.
 
Our management recognizes that items such as restructuring charges and sales of investments can have a material impact on our cash flows and net income. Our GAAP financial statements including our statement of cash flows portray those effects. Although we believe it is useful for investors to see core performance free of special items, investors should understand that the excluded items are actual expenses that impact the cash available to us for other uses. To gain a complete picture of all effects on the Company's profit and loss from any and all events, management does (and investors should) rely upon the GAAP income statement. The non-GAAP numbers focus instead upon the core business of the company, which is only a subset, albeit a critical one, of the Company's performance.
 
Readers are reminded that non-GAAP numbers are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. They should be read in conjunction with the GAAP financial measures. It should be noted as well that our non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
ROIC calculation:(annualized current quarter segment return)/(average of the two most recent quarter-end  balances of Segment Invested Capital)
 
(a)
Segment assets consist of inventory, accounts receivable, property plant and equipment, gross goodwill and other intangibles, deferred taxes and allocated corporate assets.
 
(b)
Includes accounts payable, employee compensation and benefits, other accrued liabilities and allocated corporate liabilities.
 
Historical amounts were reclassified to conform with current period presentation.
 
Return on invested capital (ROIC) is a non-GAAP measure that management believes provides useful supplemental information for management and the investor. ROIC is a tool by which we track how much value we are creating for our shareholders.  Management uses ROIC as a performance measure for our businesses, and our senior managers' compensation is linked to ROIC improvements as well as other performance criteria.  We believe that ROIC provides our management with a means to analyze and improve their business, measuring  segment profitatility in relation to net asset investments.  We acknowledge that ROIC may not be calculated the same way by every company.  We compensate for this limitation by monitoring and providing to the reader a full GAAP income statement and balance sheet.
 
Readers are reminded that non-GAAP numbers are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures.  They should be read in conjunction with the GAAP financial measures.  It should be noted as well that our non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.


