FILE:A/A-8K-20060523135736.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240-14d-2(b))
o
 
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
ITEM 5.02  DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR PRINCIPAL OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF PRINCIPAL OFFICERS
 
Effective May 17, 2006, the Board of Directors of Agilent Technologies, Inc. (the "Company") elected Paul N. Clark to serve in the class of directors that will stand for re-election at the 2009 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Clark and any other person pursuant to which Mr. Clark was elected as a director.
 
Mr. Clark will serve on the Compensation Committee and on the Nominating/Corporate Governance Committee of the Company's Board of Directors.
 
There are no transactions to which the Company is a party and in which Mr. Clark has a material interest that are required to be disclosed under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
 
A copy of the press release announcing this election is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
 (d)
          Exhibits.
 
The following are filed as exhibits to this report:
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
Date:  May 23, 2006

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
PALO ALTO, Calif., May 17, 2006  Agilent Technologies, Inc. (NYSE: A) has appointed Paul N. Clark to its board of directors. Clark is the chairman, president and CEO of ICOS Corporation, a healthcare products manufacturer based in Bothell, Wash.
 
Prior to joining ICOS, Clark served as executive vice president and board member of Abbott Labs, and held executive positions with Marion Laboratories and Sandoz Pharmaceuticals.
 
James Cullen, non-executive chairman of Agilent's Board said, "Paul brings to our board a strong background in the life sciences and pharmaceutical industries, which will be a great asset to us as we continue to pursue growth opportunities in the $20 billion bio-analytical market. We welcome Paul to Agilent, and look forward to his contributions as our newest board member."
 
Clark, 59, holds a Bachelor of Science in Finance from the University of Alabama and a master's in business administration from the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth. He currently serves on the boards of Swedish Hospital, Washington CEO Roundtable, the University of Washington Business School, and the Western Golf Association/Evans Scholars Foundation.
 
About Agilent Technologies
 
(NYSE: A) is the world's premier measurement company and a technology leader in communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis. The company's 20,000 employees serve customers in more than 110 countries. Agilent had net revenue of $5.1 billion in fiscal 2005. Information about Agilent is available on the Web at www.agilent.com.
Agilent Technologies Inc.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Agilent's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended Jan. 31, 2006. Forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of Agilent's management and on currently available information. Agilent undertakes no responsibility to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.
This press release contains forward-looking statements (including, without limitation, statements relating to the benefits of Mr. Clark's background to growth opportunities for the company in the bio-analytical market and the size of the bio-analytical market) that involve risks and uncertainties that could cause results of Agilent Technologies to differ materially from management's current expectations. These risks are detailed in
 
 
NOTE TO EDITORS: Further technology, corporate citizenship and executive news is available on the Agilent news site at www.agilent.com/go/news.
 


