FILE:A/A-8K-20071115161224.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 2.02.             Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The information in this Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto is furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
On November 15, 2007, Agilent Technologies, Inc. (the "Company") issued its press release announcing financial results for the fourth fiscal quarter ended October 31, 2007.  A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
We provide non-GAAP financial information in order to provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance and to enhance our investors' overall understanding of our core current financial performance and our prospects for the future.  We believe that our investors benefit from seeing our results "through the eyes" of management in addition to the GAAP presentation.  Management measures segment and enterprise performance using measures such as those that are disclosed in this release.  This information facilitates management's internal comparisons to the Company's historical operating results and comparisons to competitors' operating results.  Non-GAAP information allows for greater transparency to supplemental information used by management in its financial and operations decision making.  Historically, we have reported similar non-GAAP information to our investors and believe that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting.
 
This information is not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  It excludes items, such as restructuring and amortization, that may have a material effect on the Company's expenses and earnings per share calculated in accordance with GAAP.  Management monitors these items to ensure that expenses are in line with expectations and that our GAAP results are correctly stated but does not use them to measure the ongoing operating performance of the Company.  The non-GAAP information we provide may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
 
Additional explanation of non-GAAP information is provided in Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 5.02.             Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
 
Vice President, Corporate Controllership and Tax for the Company, also became the Company's principal accounting officer.  Mr. Hirsch, 56, has served as our Vice President and Corporate Controller since April 2003. Prior to assuming that position, Mr. Hirsch served as Vice President and Treasurer from September 1999 to April 2003.
On November 15, 2007, Didier Hirsch, who currently serves as
 
Effective as of November 15, 2007, Adrian T. Dillon will discontinue his service as the principal accounting officer of the Company but will remain Executive Vice President, Finance and Administration, and Chief Financial Officer of the Company.
 
Item 8.01.             Other Items.
 
On November 15, 2007, the Company issued a press release announcing that the Board of Directors of the Company approved a share repurchase program of up to $2 billion of the Company's common stock over the next two years.
 
Item 9.01.             Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Exhibit 99.1 is furnished as an exhibit to this report and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
EDITORIAL CONTACTS:
 
Amy Flores
+1 408 345 8194
amy_flores@agilent.com
 
Jorgen Tesselaar (Europe and Asia)
+31 20 547 2825
jorgen_tesselaar@agilent.com
 
 
INVESTOR CONTACT:
 
Rodney Gonsalves
+1 408 345 8948
rodney_gonsalves@agilent.com
 
 
 
 
 
SANTA CLARA, Calif., Nov. 15, 2007  Agilent Technologies Inc.
(NYSE: A) today reported orders of $1.48 billion for the fourth fiscal quarter ended Oct. 31, 2007, 6 percent above one year ago. Revenues during the quarter were $1.45 billion, 9 percent above last year. Fourth quarter GAAP net income was $180 million, or $0.46 per diluted share. Last year's fourth quarter GAAP net income from continuing operations was $126 million, or $0.31 per share.
 
Included in this quarter's GAAP income is $36 million of share-based compensation expense. Excluding this item and $10 million of other net adjustments, Agilent reported fourth quarter adjusted net income of $206 million, or $0.53 per share. On a comparable basis, the company earned $190 million, or $0.45 per share, one year ago.
(1)
 
 
"Agilent had a good fiscal fourth quarter, especially considering the continued divergent trends of our markets," said Bill Sullivan, Agilent president and chief executive officer. "Bio-analytical markets were strong in both Chemical Analysis and Life Sciences, and across all geographies. Electronic measurement markets were very mixed, with strength in aerospace / defense and wireless R&D, a flat profile for wireless handset and electronic manufacturing test, and weakness in computer and semiconductor markets."
 
Total fourth quarter revenues were up 9 percent from last year to $1.45 billion. Adjusted net income per share, at $0.53, was 18 percent above last year's results and near the top of the $0.50 - $0.54 guidance range.
 
Sullivan noted that the Bio-Analytical segment grew at a double-digit pace for the sixth consecutive quarter, and that the segment operating margin was at a record level. "We are seeing sustained strength in our new Liquid Chromatograph, Mass Spectroscopy and Gas Chromatograph platforms, and Stratagene integration activities continue to go well. Last week, we announced the acquisition of Velocity11, adding lab automation to our expanding workflow solutions."
 
"While the Electronic Measurement segment was flat overall, we saw good growth in those areas where we have invested in specific growth initiatives, such as aerospace / defense and wireless R&D," said Sullivan.
 
Fourth quarter Return on Invested Capital
(2)
 reached a new high of 30 percent, a point better than last year's strong performance. Both Receivables Days-Sales-Outstanding and Inventory Days-On-Hand reached new historic lows. Cash generated from operating activities was $398 million in the fourth quarter. During the period, the company repurchased $631 million of its common stock, completing its $2 billion buyback program.
 
Full fiscal 2007 revenues grew 9 percent to $5.4 billion. Adjusted net income per share rose 22 percent to $1.82. Return on Invested Capital reached 27 percent, and cash generated from operating activities during fiscal 2007 was $969 million.
 
Said Sullivan, "Today, Agilent's Board of Directors authorized a new program to repurchase up to $2 billion of Agilent's common shares, reflecting its confidence in Agilent's ability to create superior shareholder value, leveraging our operating model through higher sustainable growth."
 
Looking ahead, Sullivan said the company was comfortable with the range of analyst estimates for FY2008 revenues and adjusted net income per share.
(3)
 For the fiscal first quarter of 2008, revenues are expected to be in the range of $1.35 billion to $1.40 billion, up 5 percent to 9 percent from last year.
 
Comparisons of this year's first quarter adjusted net income will be affected by a change in the timing of Agilent's annual compensation awards program, and by a shift toward more variable compensation. Compared to last year, about $32 million more compensation-related expense will be recognized in Q1FY08. That $0.06 per share cost increase will be offset by a $0.04 reduction in Q2 expense, and by $0.01 reductions in FY08's Q3 and Q4. Reflecting this changed pattern of compensation expense, first quarter adjusted net income is expected to be in the range of $0.38 to $0.43 per share, 15 percent to 30 percent above last year's comparable earnings.
(4)
 
Segment Results
 
Bio-Analytical Measurement
($ millions except where noted)
 
Bio-Analytical Measurement orders were up 16 percent during the fourth quarter from one year ago, and up 11 percent excluding the impact of the acquisition of Stratagene. Revenues of $558 million were up 24 percent from last year, and up 19 percent excluding Stratagene. Revenues were strong in both Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis end markets and were well balanced geographically, with all regions up over 20 percent from one year ago.
Life Sciences revenue was up 30 percent from one year ago, and up 17 percent excluding Stratagene. Sustained strength in the pharmaceutical and biotech markets fueled growth of our 1200 Series liquid chromatography, mass spectrometry and LC/MS platforms as well as demand for microarray applications. Participation in the academic & government market more than doubled over the year, and rose 25 percent organically. Chemical Analysis revenues of $322 million were up 20 percent from last year, driven by continued strength in petrochemical, food safety and environmental end markets. Strong market acceptance of the new 7890 gas chromatograph and continued strength of the LC/MS portfolio drove demand in chemical analysis markets.
 
Segment income from operations of $120 million was $29 million above last year on a $108 million increase in revenues. Operating margins improved one point to 21 percent. Segment Return On Invested Capital
(2)
 dropped 3 points to 33 percent because of a 4-point reduction due to the addition of Stratagene.
 
Electronic Measurement
($ millions except where noted)
 
Fourth quarter Electronic Measurement orders of $912 million were 1 percent above last year. Revenues of $888 million were also up 1 percent, with Americas up 2 percent and Europe up 12 percent, while revenues from Asia were down 4 percent. General Purpose Test revenues were 1 percent ahead of last year, with strength in aerospace / defense offset by weakness in computing and semiconductors. Communications Test revenues were up 1 percent as well, with strength in R&D markets for WiMAX and LTE applications. Handset manufacturing test was down 2 percent from last year.
Fourth quarter income from operations of $133 million was down $4 million from last year on a $10 million increase in revenues. Gross margins were flat with last year while operating margins were off less than a point. Margins were hurt by a $12 million increase in currency-related costs as well as by increased acquisition-related spending. Aggressive asset management enabled segment ROIC
(2)
 to remain stable at 27 percent despite lower segment income.
About Agilent Technologies
 
Agilent Technologies Inc. (NYSE: A) is the world's premier measurement company and a technology leader in communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis. The company's 19,000 employees serve customers in more than 110 countries. Agilent had net revenues of $5.4 billion in fiscal 2007. Information about Agilent is available on the Web at www.agilent.com.
 
Agilent's management will present more details on its fourth quarter FY2007 financial results on a conference call with investors beginning today at 1:30 p.m. (Pacific). This event will be webcast live in listen-only mode. Listeners may log on at www.investor.agilent.com and select "Q4 2007 Agilent Technologies Inc. Earnings Conference Call" in the "News & Events  Calendar of Events" section. The webcast will remain available on the company's Web site for 90 days.
 
A telephone replay of the conference call will be available from 3:30 p.m. (Pacific) today through Nov. 22, 2007. The replay number is +1 888 286 8010 or international callers may dial +1 617 801 6888. The passcode is 76663083.
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is subject to the safe harbors created therein. The forward-looking statements contained herein include, but are not limited to, information regarding Agilent's future revenues, earnings and profitability; the pace of new product introductions and future demand for the Company's products and services; and guidance for the first quarter and for the full fiscal year 2008. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause Agilent's results to differ materially from management's current expectations. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, unforeseen changes in the strength of our customers' businesses, and unforeseen changes in the demand for current and new products and technologies.
 
In addition, other risks that Agilent faces in running its operations include the ability to execute successfully through business cycles while it continues to implement cost reductions; the ability to meet and achieve the benefits of its cost-reduction goals and otherwise successfully adapt its cost structures to continuing changes in business conditions; ongoing competitive, pricing and gross-margin pressures; the risk that our cost-cutting initiatives will impair our ability to develop products and remain competitive and to operate effectively; the impact of geopolitical uncertainties on our operations, our markets and our ability to conduct business; the ability to improve asset performance to adapt to changes in demand; the ability to successfully introduce new products at the right time, price and mix; and other risks detailed in Agilent's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended July 31, 2007. Forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of Agilent's management and on currently available information. Agilent undertakes no responsibility to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.
 
(1)
Adjusted net income and adjusted net income per share are non-GAAP measures. Each of these measures is defined to exclude primarily the impacts of restructuring and asset impairment charges, business separation costs, non-cash share-based compensation, intangible amortization as well as gains and losses from the sale of investments and disposals of businesses net of their tax effects. A reconciliation between adjusted net income and GAAP net income is set forth on page 5 of the attached tables along with additional information regarding the use of this non-GAAP measure.
(2)
Return On Invested Capital is a non-GAAP measure and is defined as income (loss) from operations less other (income) expense and taxes, annualized, divided by the average of the two most recent quarter-end balances of assets less net current liabilities. The reconciliation of ROIC can be found on page 6 of the attached tables, along with additional information regarding the use of this non-GAAP measure.
 
(3)
Adjusted net income per share as projected for Q108 and full year 2008 is a non-GAAP measure which excludes primarily the impacts of future restructuring and asset impairment charges, non-cash stock-based compensation, and intangibles amortization. Most of these excluded amounts pertain to events that have not yet occurred and are not currently possible to estimate with a reasonable degree of accuracy. Therefore, no reconciliation to GAAP amounts has been provided. Future amortization of intangibles is expected to be approximately $13 million per quarter.
 
(4)
Adjusted net income for Q107 of $0.39, adding $32 million of compensation expense, was $0.33 per share.
 
"WiMAX," "Fixed WiMAX," "Mobile WiMAX," "WiMAX Forum," the WiMAX Forum logo, "WiMAX Forum Certified," and the WiMAX Forum Certified logo are trademarks of the WiMAX Forum. All other trademarks are the properties of their respective owners.
 
NOTE TO EDITORS: Further technology, corporate citizenship and executive news is available on the Agilent news site at
www.agilent.com/go/news
.
 
 
 
 
Income from continuing operations for the fourth quarter of fiscal years 2007 and 2006 include pre-tax share-based compensation expense under SFAS No. 123(R) of $36 million and $21 million, respectively, related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases.
 
The preliminary income statement is estimated based on our current information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Income from continuing operations for fiscal years 2007 and 2006 include pre-tax share-based compensation expense under SFAS No. 123(R) of $139 million and $94 million, respectively, related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases.
 
The preliminary income statement is estimated based on our current information.
 
 
 
 
 
The preliminary balance sheet is estimated based on our current information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The preliminary cash flow statement is estimated based on our current information.
 
 
 
 
 
We provide adjusted net income and adjusted net income per share amounts in order to provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance and our prospects for the future. These supplemental measures exclude, among other things, expenses related to share-based compensation, charges related to the amortization of intangibles, the impact of restructuring charges and the sale of our businesses. Some of the exclusions, such as impairments, may be beyond the control of management. Further, some may be less predictable than revenue derived from our core businesses (the day to day business of selling our products and services). These reasons provide the basis for management's belief that the measures are useful.
 
Our management uses non-GAAP measures to evaluate the performance of our core businesses, to estimate future core performance and to compensate employees. Since management finds this measure to be useful, we believe that our investors benefit from seeing our results "through the eyes" of management in addition to seeing our GAAP results. This information facilitates our management's internal comparisons to our historical operating results as well as to the operating results of our competitors.
 
Our management recognizes that items such as share-based compensation expenses, amortization of intangibles and restructuring charges can have a material impact on our cash flows and/or our net income. Our GAAP financial statements including our statement of cash flows portray those effects. Although we believe it is useful for investors to see core performance free of special items, investors should understand that the excluded items are actual expenses that may impact the cash available to us for other uses. To gain a complete picture of all effects on the Company's profit and loss from any and all events, management does (and investors should) rely upon the GAAP income statement. The non-GAAP numbers focus instead upon the core business of the company, which is only a subset, albeit a critical one, of the Company's performance.
 
Readers are reminded that non-GAAP numbers are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. They should be read in conjunction with the GAAP financial measures. It should be noted as well that our non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
 
The preliminary adjusted net income and diluted EPS reconciliation is estimated based on our current information.
 
 
 
 
 
 
ROIC calculation:(annualized current quarter segment return)/(average of the two most recent quarter-endbalances of Segment Invested Capital)
 
(a)
Agilent return is equal to adjusted net income from continuing operations of $206 million minus net interest income after tax of $13 million. Please see "Adjusted Net Income and EPS Reconciliations" for a reconciliation of adjusted net income from continuing operations to GAAP income from continuing operations.
 
(b)
Segment assets consist of inventory, accounts receivable, property plant and equipment, gross goodwill and other intangibles, deferred taxes and allocated corporate assets.
 
(c)
Includes accounts payable, employee compensation and benefits, other accrued liabilities and allocated corporate liabilities.
 
 
Return on invested capital (ROIC) is a non-GAAP measure that management believes provides useful supplemental information for management and the investor. ROIC is a tool by which we track how much value we are creating for our shareholders. Management uses ROIC as a performance measure for our businesses, and our senior managers' compensation is linked to ROIC improvements as well as other performance criteria. We believe that ROIC provides our management with a means to analyze and improve their business, measuring segment profitability in relation to net asset investments. We acknowledge that ROIC may not be calculated the same way by every company. We compensate for this limitation by monitoring and providing to the reader a full GAAP income statement and balance sheet.
 
Readers are reminded that non-GAAP numbers are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. They should be read in conjunction with the GAAP financial measures. It should be noted as well that our non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
 
The preliminary reconciliation of ROIC is estimated based on our current information.
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
EDITORIAL CONTACT:
 
Amy Flores
+1 408 345 8194
amy_flores@agilent.com
 
INVESTOR CONTACT:
 
Rodney Gonsalves
+ 1 408 345 8948
rodney_gonsalves@agilent.com
 
 
 
 
 
SANTA CLARA, Calif., Nov., 15, 2007  Agilent Technologies Inc.
(NYSE: A) today announced that its Board of Directors has approved a share-repurchase program of up to $2 billion of its common stock over the next two years. Agilent completed its previous $2 billion share buyback in October, bringing its cumulative repurchases to $6.466 billion since the program's inception in 2005.
 
"The Board's decision reflects our confidence in Agilent's operating model and strong cash flow," said Bill Sullivan, Agilent president and chief executive officer. "It also demonstrates our continuing commitment to return excess cash to the owners."
 
Agilent anticipates the share-repurchase program will be implemented using a variety of methods, which may include open-market purchases, block trades, accelerated share-repurchase transactions or otherwise, or by any combination of such methods. The number of shares to be repurchased and the timing of any repurchases will depend on factors such as the stock price, economic and market conditions, and corporate and regulatory requirements. The stock-repurchase program may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is subject to the safe harbors created therein. The forward-looking statements contained herein include, but are not limited to, statements relating to the timing of, amounts purchased under and methods of implementation of Agilent's share-repurchase program. Actual events may differ materially from current expectations. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to risks associated with Agilent's ability to complete the share-repurchase program. Forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of Agilent's management and on currently available information. Agilent undertakes no responsibility to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.
 
About Agilent Technologies
 
Agilent Technologies Inc. (NYSE: A) is the world's premier measurement company and a technology leader in communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis. The company's 19,000 employees serve customers in more than 110 countries. Agilent had net revenues of $5.4 billion in fiscal 2007. Information about Agilent is available on the Web at www.agilent.com.
 
 
NOTE TO EDITORS: Further technology, corporate citizenship and executive news is available on the Agilent news site at www.agilent.com/go/news.
 


