FILE:A/A-8K-20070814161514.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 2.02.         Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The information in this Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto is furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
On August 14, 2007, Agilent Technologies, Inc. (the "Company") issued its press release announcing financial results for the third fiscal quarter ended July 31, 2007.  A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
We provide non-GAAP financial information in order to provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance and to enhance our investors' overall understanding of our core current financial performance and our prospects for the future.  We believe that our investors benefit from seeing our results "through the eyes" of management in addition to the GAAP presentation.  Management measures segment and enterprise performance using measures such as those that are disclosed in this release.  This information facilitates management's internal comparisons to the Company's historical operating results and comparisons to competitors' operating results.  Non-GAAP information allows for greater transparency to supplemental information used by management in its financial and operations decision making.  Historically, we have reported similar non-GAAP information to our investors and believe that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting.
This information is not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  It excludes items, such as restructuring and amortization, that may have a material effect on the Company's expenses and earnings per share calculated in accordance with GAAP.  Management monitors these items to ensure that expenses are in line with expectations and that our GAAP results are correctly stated but does not use them to measure the ongoing operating performance of the Company.  The non-GAAP information we provide may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
Additional explanation of non-GAAP information is provided in Exhibit 99.1.
Item 9.01.         Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
The following is furnished as an exhibit to this report and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
EDITORIAL CONTACTS:
Amy Flores
+1 408 345 8194
amy_flores@agilent.com
Jorgen Tesselaar (Europe and Asia)
+31 20 547 2825
jorgen_tesselaar@agilent.com
INVESTOR CONTACT:
Rodney Gonsalves
+1 408 345 8948
rodney_gonsalves@agilent.com
SANTA CLARA, Calif., Aug. 14, 2007  Agilent Technologies Inc. (NYSE: A) today reported orders of $1.31 billion for the third fiscal quarter ended July 31, 2007, 7 percent above one year ago. Revenues during the quarter were $1.37 billion, 11 percent above last year. Third quarter GAAP net income was $185 million, or $0.45 per diluted share.  Last year's third quarter GAAP net income from continuing operations, which included a $65 million, or $0.15 per share, gain from the sale of assets, was $216 million.
Included in this quarter's GAAP income is $27 million of share-based compensation expense. Excluding this item and $18 million of tax and other net benefits, Agilent reported third quarter adjusted net income of $194 million, or $0.48 per share. On a comparable basis, the company earned $166 million, or $0.39 per share, one year ago.
(1)
1
"Agilent met its aggressive performance targets despite very divergent market trends during the third quarter," said Bill Sullivan, Agilent president and chief executive officer.  "Bio-analytical markets were strong across the board, and the performance of our Segment was even more robust.  Electronic measurement markets were solid in the Americas and Europe but surprisingly weak in Asia, particularly Japan.
"As a result, third quarter revenues were up 11 percent from last year to $1.37 billion, just shy of our revised expectations.  Adjusted net income per share, at $0.48, was 23 percent above last year's results and in the middle of our guidance range."
Sullivan noted that, including the impact of the third quarter acquisition of Stratagene, Bio-Analytical segment orders were up 21 percent from last year, while revenues hit a record $500 million, up 19 percent from one year ago.  "Initial integration activities are going well, and we are enthusiastic about the synergy between Stratagene's bio-reagents and Agilent's analytical instruments to better serve customers in both commercial and not-for-profit life sciences applications."
 reached 28 percent, 3 points better than last year's strong performance.  Both Receivables Days-Sales-Outstanding and Inventory Days-On-Hand improved 3 days from one year ago. Cash generated from operating activities was $176 million in the third quarter. During the period, the company repurchased $677 million of its common stock. The company ended the quarter with net cash of $1.5 billion.
Third quarter Return on Invested Capital
(2)
For the fiscal fourth quarter of 2007, Agilent expects a softer than normal seasonal increase in revenues because of weak Asian electronic measurement markets.  Revenues are expected to be in the range of $1.39 billion to $1.43 billion, up 5 percent to 8 percent from last year. Adjusted net income is expected to be in the range of $0.50 to $0.54 per share, 9 percent to 17 percent above last year's comparable earnings.
(3)
Sullivan said, "Near-term weakness in Asian electronic measurement markets does not dampen our expectations for Agilent's performance in fiscal
2
2008.  We anticipate continued momentum in our Bio-Analytical markets and a return to more normal secular growth in Electronic Measurement markets next year.  We continue to leverage our robust operating model, and will benefit from our investments in core products, growth initiatives and acquisitions."
Segment Results
Bio-Analytical Measurement
($ millions except where noted)
 
Bio-Analytical Measurement orders were up 21 percent during the third quarter from one year ago, and up 16 percent excluding the impact of the acquisition of Stratagene.  This marks the fifth consecutive quarter of double-digit orders growth.  Revenues of $500 million were up 19 percent from last year, and up 15 percent excluding Stratagene.  Life Sciences revenues of $209 million were up 22 percent from last year, and 12 percent higher excluding Stratagene. Sustained strength in the pharmaceutical and biotech markets fueled growth of our 1200 Series liquid chromatography, mass spectrometry and LC / MS platforms. Chemical Analysis revenues of $291 million were up 17 percent from last year, with approximately 20 percent rates of growth in food safety, environmental and petrochemical spending driving demand for the new gas chromatography and GC/MS platforms.
 improved 2 points to 29 percent despite a 4-point reduction in ROIC due to the addition of Stratagene.
Segment income from operations of $92 million was $26 million above last year on an $80 million increase in revenues.  Operating margins improved nearly 3 points to 18 percent. Segment Return On Invested Capital
(2)
3
Electronic Measurement
($ millions except where noted)
 
Third quarter Electronic Measurement orders of $810 million were flat compared to last year, with steady 5 percent to 9 percent growth in the Americas and Europe offset by flat Asian orders and a 24 percent decline from Japan. Revenues of $874 million were up 7 percent, with Americas up 12 percent and Europe up 8 percent, while revenues from Asia were up 1 percent. General Purpose Test revenues were 9 percent ahead of last year, with strength in aerospace / defense.  Communications Test revenues were up 3 percent, with particular strength in R&D markets.  Handset manufacturing test was up 11 percent sequentially, but still down 7 percent from last year's third quarter.
 improved 2 points to 26 percent.
Third quarter income from operations of $133 million was up $14 million from last year on a $55 million increase in revenues. Gross margins were flat with last year while operating margins improved less than a point due to increased acquisition-related spending.  Segment ROIC
(2)
About Agilent Technologies
Agilent Technologies Inc. (NYSE: A) is the world's premier measurement company and a technology leader in communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis. The company's 19,000 employees serve customers in more than 110 countries. Agilent had net revenues of $5.0 billion in fiscal 2006. Information about Agilent is available on the Web at www.agilent.com.
Agilent's management will present more details on its third quarter FY2007 financial results on a conference call with investors beginning at 1:30 p.m. (Pacific). This event will be webcast live in listen-only mode. Listeners may log on
4
at www.investor.agilent.com and select "Q3 2007 Agilent Technologies Inc. Earnings Conference Call" in the "News & Events  Calendar of Events" section. The webcast will remain available on the company's Web site for 90 days.
A telephone replay of the conference call will be available from 3:30 p.m. (Pacific) today through Aug. 21, 2007. The replay number is +1 888 286 8010 or international callers may dial +1 617 801 6888. The passcode is 61171511.
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is subject to the safe harbors created therein. The forward-looking statements contained herein include, but are not limited to, information regarding Agilent's future revenues, earnings and profitability; the pace of new product introductions and future demand for the Company's products and services; and guidance for the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2007.  These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause Agilent's results to differ materially from management's current expectations. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, unforeseen changes in the strength of our customers' businesses, and unforeseen changes in the demand for current and new products and technologies.
In addition, other risks that Agilent faces in running its operations include the ability to execute successfully through business cycles while it continues to implement cost reductions; the ability to meet and achieve the benefits of its cost-reduction goals and otherwise successfully adapt its cost structures to continuing changes in business conditions; ongoing competitive, pricing and gross margin pressures; the risk that our cost-cutting initiatives will impair our ability to develop products and remain competitive and to operate effectively; the impact of geopolitical uncertainties on our operations, our markets and our ability to conduct business; the ability to improve asset performance to adapt to changes in demand; the ability to successfully introduce new products at the right time, price and mix; and other risks detailed in Agilent's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended April 30, 2007. Forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of Agilent's management and on currently available information.
5
Agilent undertakes no responsibility to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.
Adjusted net income and adjusted net income per share are non-GAAP measures. Each of these measures is defined to exclude primarily the impacts of restructuring and asset impairment charges, business separation costs, non-cash stock-based compensation, intangible amortization as well as gains and losses from the sale of investments and disposals of businesses net of their tax effects. A reconciliation between adjusted net income and GAAP net income is set forth on page 5 of the attached tables along with additional information regarding the use of this non-GAAP measure.
(1)
(2) Return On Invested Capital is a non-GAAP measure and is defined as income (loss) from operations less other (income) expense and taxes, annualized, divided by the average of the two most recent quarter-end balances of assets less net current liabilities. The reconciliation of ROIC can be found on page 6 of the attached tables, along with additional information regarding the use of this non-GAAP measure.
(3) Adjusted net income per share as projected for Q407 is a non-GAAP measure which excludes primarily the impacts of future restructuring and asset impairment charges, non-cash stock-based compensation, and intangibles amortization.  Most of these excluded amounts pertain to events that have not yet occurred and are not currently possible to estimate with a reasonable degree of accuracy.  Therefore, no reconciliation to GAAP amounts has been provided. Future amortization of intangibles is expected to be approximately $13 million per quarter.
www.agilent.com/go/news.
NOTE TO EDITORS: Further technology, corporate citizenship and executive news is available on the Agilent news site at
6
 
Income from continuing operations for the third quarter of fiscal years 2007 and 2006 include pre-tax share-based  compensation expense under SFAS No. 123(R) of $27 million and $19 million, respectively, related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases. 
The preliminary income statement is estimated based on our current information.
7
 
Income from continuing operations for the first nine months of fiscal years 2007 and 2006 include pre-tax share-based compensation expense under SFAS No. 123(R) of $103 million and $73 million, respectively, related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases.
The preliminary income statement is estimated based on our current information.
8
 
The preliminary balance sheet is estimated based on our current information.
9
 
The preliminary cash flow statement is estimated based on our current information.
10
 
We provide adjusted net income and adjusted net income per share amounts in order to provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance and our prospects for the future. These supplemental measures exclude, among other things, expenses related to share-based compensation, charges related to the amortization of intangibles, the impact of restructuring charges and the sale of our businesses. Some of the exclusions, such as impairments, may be beyond the control of management. Further, some may be less predictable than revenue derived from our core businesses (the day to day business of selling our products and services). These reasons provide the basis for management's belief that the measures are useful.
Our management uses non-GAAP measures to evaluate the performance of our core businesses, to estimate future core performance and to compensate employees. Since management finds this measure to be useful, we believe that our investors benefit from seeing our results "through the eyes" of management in addition to seeing our GAAP results. This information facilitates our management's internal comparisons to our historical operating results as well as to the operating results of our competitors.
Our management recognizes that items such as share-based compensation expenses, amortization of intangibles and restructuring charges can have a material impact on our cash flows and/or our net income. Our GAAP financial statements including our statement of cash flows portray those effects. Although we believe it is useful for investors to see core performance free of special items, investors should understand that the excluded items are actual expenses that may impact the cash available to us for other uses. To gain a complete picture of all effects on the Company's profit and loss from any and all events, management does (and investors should) rely upon the GAAP income statement. The non-GAAP numbers focus instead upon the core business of the company, which is only a subset, albeit a critical one, of the Company's performance.
Readers are reminded that non-GAAP numbers are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. They should be read in conjunction with the GAAP financial measures. It should be noted as well that our non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
The preliminary adjusted net income and diluted EPS reconciliation is estimated based on our current information.
11
 
ROIC calculation:(annualized current quarter segment return)/(average of the two most recent quarter-end balances of Segment Invested Capital)
(a) Agilent return is equal to adjusted net income from continuing operations of $194 million minus net interest income after tax of $18 million. Please see "Adjusted Net Income and EPS Reconciliations" for a reconciliation of adjusted net income from continuing operations to GAAP income from continuing operations.
(b) Segment assets consist of inventory, accounts receivable, property plant and equipment, gross goodwill and other intangibles, deferred taxes and allocated corporate assets.
(c) Includes accounts payable, employee compensation and benefits, other accrued liabilities and allocated corporate liabilities.
 
Return on invested capital (ROIC) is a non-GAAP measure that management believes provides useful supplemental information for management and the investor.  ROIC is a tool by which we track how much value we are creating for our shareholders.  Management uses ROIC as a performance measure for our businesses, and our senior managers' compensation is linked to ROIC improvements as well as other performance criteria.  We believe that ROIC provides our management with a means to analyze and improve their business, measuring segment profitability in relation to net asset investments.  We acknowledge that ROIC may not be calculated the same way by every company.  We compensate for this limitation by monitoring and providing to the reader a full GAAP income statement and balance sheet.
Readers are reminded that non-GAAP numbers are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures.  They should be read in conjunction with the GAAP financial measures.  It should be noted as well that our non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
The preliminary reconciliation of ROIC is estimated based on our current information.
12


