FILE:A/A-8K-20070514161726.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
Item 1.01.              Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On May 11, 2007, Agilent Technologies, Inc. (the "Company") entered into a Five Year Credit Agreement (the "Credit Agreement") by and among the Company, certain lenders party thereto (the "Lenders"), and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administration agent.
The Credit Agreement provides for a $300 million unsecured credit facility (the "Facility") that will expire on May 11, 2012.  The Company will use amounts borrowed under the Facility for general corporate purposes.  The Company is not borrowing under the Facility at this time, but may borrow under the Facility from time to time as opportunities and needs arise.
Loans under the Credit Agreement will bear interest either at: (i) the greater of (a) JPMorgan's prime rate in effect from time to time and (b) the federal funds effective rate in effect form time to time plus 0.5%, or (ii) the applicable London interbank offered rate plus the applicable margin for such loans, which ranges between 0.270% and 0.650%, based on the Company's senior debt credit ratings as published by Standard & Poor's Ratings Services and Moody's Investors Service, Inc., and which is 0.425% at the Company's current credit ratings. The applicable London interbank offered rate, if utilized, will be increased by 0.10% for any period in which the aggregate principal amount of advances and letters of credit under the Facility is equal to or exceeds $150 million. The Company will pay an annual facility fee during the term of the Credit Agreement which varies depending on the Company's credit ratings. At the Company's current ratings, the facility fee will be 0.125% per year, or $375,000 per year.
The Credit Agreement contains customary representations and warranties as well as customary affirmative and negative covenants. Negative covenants include, among others, limitations on incurrence of liens, and limitations on incurrence of indebtedness by the Company's subsidiaries.  In addition, the Credit Agreement requires that the Company maintain a ratio of adjusted consolidated debt to consolidated EBITDA of not greater than 3.25 to 1.00, and a ratio of consolidated EBITDA to consolidated interest expense of not less than 3.00 to 1.00.
                The Credit Agreement contains customary events of default. Upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an event of default, the Lenders may declare the outstanding advances and all other obligations under the Credit Agreement immediately due and payable.
J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. and Citigroup Global Markets Inc. are acting as joint lead arrangers and joint bookrunners for the Facility.
The description of the Credit Agreement contained herein is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Credit Agreement, a copy of which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 2.02.              Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
The information in this Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto is furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
On May 14, 2007, the Company issued its press release announcing financial results for the second fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2007.  A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
2
We provide non-GAAP financial information in order to provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance and to enhance our investors' overall understanding of our core current financial performance and our prospects for the future.  We believe that our investors benefit from seeing our results "through the eyes" of management in addition to the GAAP presentation.  Management measures segment and enterprise performance using measures such as those that are disclosed in this release.  This information facilitates management's internal comparisons to the company's historical operating results and comparisons to competitors' operating results.  Non-GAAP information allows for greater transparency to supplemental information used by management in its financial and operations decision making.  Historically, we have reported similar non-GAAP information to our investors and believe that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting.
This information is not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  It excludes items, such as restructuring and amortization, that may have a material effect on the Company's expenses and earnings per share calculated in accordance with GAAP.  Management monitors these items to ensure that expenses are in line with expectations and that our GAAP results are correctly stated but does not use them to measure the ongoing operating performance of the Company.  The non-GAAP information we provide may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
Additional explanation of non-GAAP information is provided in Exhibit 99.1.
Item 2.03.
Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant.
                                         
On May 11, 2007, the Company entered into the Credit Agreement described in Item 1.01 above, which information is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
Item 9.01.              Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
The following Exhibit No. 99.1 is furnished as an exhibit to this report and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended:
 
3
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:  May 14, 2007
4
 
 
 
5

 
Exhibit 10.1
EXECUTION COPY
 
i
 
 
ii
 
 
iii
 
 
 
iv
FIVE-YEAR CREDIT AGREEMENT dated as of May 11, 2007 (the ""), among AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. (the ""), a Delaware corporation, the LENDERS party hereto and JPMORGAN CHASE BANK, N.A., as Administrative Agent.
Agreement
Company
The parties hereto hereby agree as follows:
SECTION 1.01.   As used in this Agreement, the following terms have the meanings specified below:
Defined Terms.
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Alternate Base Rate.
ABR
"" means an Accession Agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit E among an Increasing Lender, the Company and the Administrative Agent.
Accession Agreement
"" means, at any time, (a) all Indebtedness of the Company and the Subsidiaries at such time other than World Trade Indebtedness, plus (b) Adjusted World Trade Indebtedness at such time, minus (c) all Indebtedness at such time consisting of obligations of the Company and the Subsidiaries as account parties in respect of letters of credit and letters of guaranty that do not support Indebtedness, all determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.  In the event that the Company or any Subsidiary shall have completed since any date as of which Adjusted Consolidated Total Indebtedness is to be determined an acquisition or disposition of any Person, division or business unit in which the aggregate consideration paid or received shall have exceeded $300,000,000, Adjusted Consolidated Total Indebtedness shall be determined for such period on a pro forma basis as if such acquisition or disposition, and any related incurrence or repayment of Indebtedness, had occurred on such date.
Adjusted Consolidated Total Indebtedness
"" means, with respect to any LIBOR Borrowing for any Interest Period, an interest rate per annum (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/16 of 1%) equal to the product of (a) the LIBO Rate for such Interest Period multiplied by (b) the Statutory Reserve Rate.
Adjusted LIBO Rate
"" means, at any time, an amount (but not less than zero) equal to (a) the aggregate amount of all World Trade Indebtedness at such time minus (b) the Adjusted World Trade Restricted Cash at such time.
Adjusted World Trade Indebtedness
"" means, at any time, (a) the aggregate amount of all World Trade Restricted Cash at such time minus (b) an amount equal to the aggregate Taxes that would become payable by the Company and the Subsidiaries in the event such World Trade Restricted Cash were remitted through a dividend or series of dividends to the Company, assuming an effective combined income tax rate of 25%.
Adjusted World Trade Restricted Cash
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its capacity as administrative agent for the Lenders hereunder.
Administrative Agent
"" means an Administrative Questionnaire in a form supplied by the Administrative Agent.
Administrative Questionnaire
"" means, with respect to a specified Person, another Person that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediaries, Controls or is Controlled by or is under common Control with the Person specified.
Affiliate
"" means, for any day, a rate per annum equal to the greater of (a) the Prime Rate in effect on such day and (b) the Federal Funds Effective Rate in effect on such day plus 1/2 of 1%. Any change in the Alternate Base Rate due to a change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate shall be effective from and including the effective date of such change in the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate, respectively.
Alternate Base Rate
"" means, with respect to any Lender, the percentage of the total Commitments represented by such Lender's Commitment.  If the Commitments have terminated or expired, the Applicable Percentages shall be determined based upon the Commitments most recently in effect, giving effect to any assignments.
Applicable Percentage
"" means, for any day, with respect to any LIBOR Revolving Loan or the facility fees payable hereunder, the applicable rate per annum set forth below under the caption "LIBOR Margin" or "Facility Fee", as the case may be, based upon the ratings by S&P and Moody's, respectively, applicable on such date to the Index Debt and the Utilization Percentage on such date:
Applicable Rate
 
2
For purposes of the foregoing, (a) if either Moody's or S&P shall not have in effect a rating for the Index Debt (other than by reason of the circumstances referred to in the last sentence of this definition), then such rating agency shall be deemed to have established a rating in Category 5; (b) if the ratings established or deemed to have been established by Moody's and S&P for the Index Debt shall fall within different Categories, the Applicable Rate shall be based on the higher of the two ratings unless one of the two ratings is two or more Categories lower than the other, in which case the Applicable Rate shall be determined by reference to the Category next below that of the higher of the two ratings; and (c) if the ratings established or deemed to have been established by Moody's and S&P for the Index Debt shall be changed (other than as a result of a change in the rating system of Moody's or S&P), such change shall be effective as of the date on which it is first publicly announced by the applicable rating agency.  Each change in the Applicable Rate shall apply during the period commencing on the effective date of such change and ending on the date immediately preceding the effective date of the next such change. If the rating system of Moody's or S&P shall change, or if either such rating agency shall cease to be in the business of rating corporate debt obligations, the Company and the Lenders shall negotiate in good faith to amend this definition to reflect such changed rating system or the unavailability of ratings from such rating agency and, pending the effectiveness of any such amendment, the Applicable Rate shall be determined by reference to the rating most recently in effect prior to such change or cessation.
"" means an Assignment and Assumption entered into by a Lender and an assignee (with the consent of any party whose consent is required by Section 10.04), and accepted by the Administrative Agent, in the form of Exhibit A or any other form approved by the Administrative Agent.
Assignment and Assumption
"" means, with respect to any Sale-Leaseback Transaction, the present value (discounted at the rate set forth or implicit in the terms of the lease included in such Sale-Leaseback Transaction) of the total obligations of the lessee for rental payments (other than amounts required to be paid on account of taxes, maintenance, repairs, insurance, assessments, utilities, operating and labor costs and other items that do not constitute payments for property rights) during the remaining term of the lease included in such Sale-Leaseback Transaction (including any period for which such lease has been extended).  In the case of any lease that is terminable by the lessee upon payment of a penalty, the Attributable Debt shall be the lesser of the Attributable Debt determined assuming termination on the first date such lease may be terminated (in which case the Attributable Debt shall also include the amount of the penalty, but no rent shall be considered as required to be paid under such lease subsequent to the first date upon which it may be so terminated) or the Attributable Debt determined assuming no such termination.
Attributable Debt
"" means the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the earlier of the Maturity Date and the date of termination of the Commitments.
Availability Period
3
"" means the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System of the United States of America.
Board
"" means the Company or any Borrowing Subsidiary.
Borrower
"" means (a) Revolving Loans of the same Type and to the same Borrower, made, converted or continued on the same date and, in the case of LIBOR Loans, as to which a single Interest Period is in effect, or (b) a Swingline Loan.
Borrowing
"" means a request by a Borrower for a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.03.
Borrowing Request
"" means any Subsidiary that has been designated as a Borrowing Subsidiary pursuant to Section 2.20 and that has not ceased to be a Borrowing Subsidiary as provided in such Section.
Borrowing Subsidiary
"" means a Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement substantially in the form of Exhibit C.
Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement
"" means a Borrowing Subsidiary Termination substantially in the form of Exhibit D.
Borrowing Subsidiary Termination
"" means any day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks in New York City are authorized or required by law to remain closed; , that when used in connection with a LIBOR Loan, the term "Business Day" shall also exclude any day on which banks in London are not open for general business.
Business Day
provided
"" of any Person means the obligations of such Person to pay rent or other amounts under any lease of (or other arrangement conveying the right to use) real or personal property (or a combination thereof), which obligations are required to be classified and accounted for as capital leases on a balance sheet of such Person under GAAP, and the amount of such obligations shall be the capitalized amount thereof determined in accordance with GAAP.
Capital Lease Obligations
"" means (a) the acquisition of ownership, directly or indirectly, beneficially or of record, by any Person or group (within the meaning of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules of the SEC thereunder as in effect on the date hereof), of shares representing more than 35% of the aggregate ordinary voting power represented by the issued and outstanding capital stock of the Company; or (b) occupation of a majority of the seats (other than vacant seats) on the board of directors of the Company by Persons who were neither (i) nominated by the board of directors of the Company nor (ii) appointed by directors so nominated.
Change in Control
"" means (a) the adoption of any law, rule or regulation after the date of this Agreement, (b) any change in any law, rule or regulation or in the interpretation or application thereof by any Governmental Authority after the date of this Agreement or (c) compliance by any Lender or any Issuing Bank (or, for purposes of
Change in Law
4
Section 2.15(b), by any lending office of such Lender or such Issuing Bank or by such Lender's or such Issuing Bank's holding company, if any) with any request, guideline or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any Governmental Authority made or issued after the date of this Agreement.
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are Revolving Loans or Swingline Loans.
Class
"" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
Code
"" means, with respect to each Lender, the commitment of such Lender to make Revolving Loans and to acquire participations in Letters of Credit and Swingline Loans hereunder, expressed as an amount representing the maximum aggregate amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure hereunder, as such commitment may be reduced or increased from time to time pursuant to Sections 2.08 or pursuant to assignments by or to such Lender pursuant to Section 10.04.  The initial amount of each Lender's Commitment is set forth on Schedule 2.01, or in the Assignment and Assumption pursuant to which such Lender shall have assumed its Commitment, as applicable. The initial aggregate amount of the Lenders' Commitments is $300,000,000.
Commitment
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in the heading of this Agreement.
Company
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.09.
Consenting Lender
"" means, for any period, Consolidated Net Income for such period plus (a) without duplication and to the extent deducted in determining such Consolidated Net Income, the sum of (i) Consolidated Interest Expense for such period, (ii) consolidated income tax expense for such period, (iii) all amounts attributable to depreciation and amortization for such period, (iv) non-cash charges for such period (including, without limitation, non-cash charges for impairment of goodwill and non-cash charges associated with employee compensation for such period), and (v) non-recurring cash charges or expenses in connection with dispositions, in an aggregate amount for any period of four fiscal quarters not to exceed $25,000,000, minus (b) without duplication and to the extent included in determining such Consolidated Net Income, the sum of (i) all extraordinary gains for such period, (ii) equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliates and other minority interest net income for such period (except to the extent actually distributed or paid to the Company or a Subsidiary, (iii) interest income for such period and (iv) all cash payments in such period in respect of items that were reflected in any prior period as non-cash charges of the sort referred to in subclauses (iv) and (v) of the preceding clause (a), all determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP. In the event that the Company or any Subsidiary shall have completed since the beginning of the relevant period an acquisition or disposition of any Person, division or business unit in which the aggregate consideration paid or received shall have exceeded
Consolidated EBITDA
5
$300,000,000, Consolidated EBITDA shall be determined for such period on a basis as if such acquisition or disposition, and any related incurrence or repayment of Indebtedness, had occurred at the beginning of such period.
pro forma
"" means, for any period, total interest expense (including that properly attributable to Capital Leases in accordance with GAAP and amortization of debt discount and debt issuance costs) of the Company and the Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, including all capitalized interest, all commissions, discounts and other fees and charges owed with respect to letters of credit and bankers' acceptance financings and net costs under interest rate protection agreements (including amortization of discount), all as determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP, but excluding that portion of interest expense with respect to the World Trade Indebtedness that does not exceed the interest income attributable to World Trade Restricted Cash.  In the event that the Company or any Subsidiary shall have completed since the beginning of the relevant period an acquisition or disposition of any Person, division or business unit in which the aggregate consideration paid or received shall have exceeded $300,000,000, Consolidated Interest Expense shall be determined for such period on a basis as if such acquisition or disposition, and any related incurrence or repayment of Indebtedness, had occurred at the beginning of such period.
Consolidated Interest Expense
pro forma
"" means, for any period, the net income or loss of the Company and the Subsidiaries for such period determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP; that, to the extent included therein, there shall be excluded the net income or loss attributable to any discontinued operations of the Company and the Subsidiaries.
Consolidated Net Income
provided
"" means, at any time, the stockholders' equity of the Company at the end of the then most recent period of four fiscal quarters for which consolidated financial statements of the Company have been delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(a) or 5.01 (b) or, prior to the delivery of any such financial statements, at January 31, 2007, determined on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP.
Consolidated Stockholders' Equity
"" means the possession, directly or indirectly, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management or policies of a Person, whether through the ability to exercise voting power, by contract or otherwise.  "" and "" have meanings correlative thereto.
Control
Controlling
Controlled
"" means the Company, in its capacity as a Borrower and as a guarantor of the Obligations of the other Borrowers pursuant to Article IX, and each Borrowing Subsidiary.
Credit Party
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.09.
Declining Lender
"" means any event or condition that constitutes, or upon notice or lapse of time or both would become, an Event of Default.
Default
6
"" means the date on which the conditions specified in Section 4.01 are satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 10.02).
Effective Date
"" means all material laws, rules, regulations, codes, ordinances, orders, decrees, judgments, injunctions, notices or binding agreements issued, promulgated or entered into by any Governmental Authority, relating in any way to the environment, preservation or reclamation of natural resources, the management, release or threatened release of any Hazardous Material or to health and safety matters.
Environmental Laws
"" means any liability, contingent or otherwise (including any liability for damages, costs of environmental remediation, fines, penalties or indemnities), of the Company or any Subsidiary directly or indirectly resulting from or based upon (a) violation of any Environmental Law, (b) the generation, use, handling, transportation, storage, treatment or disposal of any Hazardous Materials, (c) exposure to any Hazardous Materials, (d) the release or threatened release of any Hazardous Materials into the environment or (e) any contract, agreement or other consensual arrangement pursuant to which liability is assumed or imposed with respect to any of the foregoing.
Environmental Liability
"" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended from time to time, and any final regulations promulgated and the rulings issued thereunder.
ERISA
"" means any trade or business (whether or not incorporated) that, together with the Company, is treated as a single employer under Section 414(b) or (c) of the Code or, solely for purposes of Section 302 of ERISA and Section 412 of the Code, is treated as a single employer under Section 414 of the Code.
ERISA Affiliate
"" means (a) any "reportable event", as defined in Section 4043 of ERISA or the regulations issued thereunder with respect to a Plan (other than an event for which the 30-day notice period is waived); (b) the existence with respect to any Plan of an "accumulated funding deficiency" (as defined in Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA and, on and after the effectiveness of Title I of the Pension Act, any failure by any Plan to satisfy the minimum funding standards (within the meaning of Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA) applicable to such Plan), whether or not waived; (c) the filing pursuant to Section 412(d) of the Code or Section 303(d) of ERISA of an application for a waiver of the minimum funding standard with respect to any Plan or the failure to make any required contribution to a Multiemployer Plan; (d) the incurrence by the Company or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability under Title IV of ERISA with respect to the termination of any Plan or Multiemployer Plan; (e) the receipt by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate from the PBGC or a plan administrator of any notice relating to an intention to terminate any Plan or Plans or to appoint a trustee to administer any Plan; (f) the incurrence by the Company or any of its ERISA Affiliates of any liability with respect to the withdrawal or partial withdrawal from any Plan or Multiemployer Plan; (g) the receipt by the Company or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, or the receipt by any Multiemployer Plan from the Company or any ERISA Affiliate of any notice, concerning the imposition of Withdrawal
ERISA Event
Liability or a determination that a Multiemployer Plan is, or is expected to be, insolvent or in reorganization, within the meaning of Title IV of ERISA (or, after the effectiveness of Title II of the Pension Act, that it is in endangered or critical status, within the meaning of Section 305 of ERISA); or (h) on and after the effectiveness of Title I of the Pension Act, a determination that any Plan is or is expected to be, in "at-risk" status (as defined in Section 303(i)(4)(A) of ERISA or Section 430(i)(4)(A) of the Code).
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Article VII.
Event of Default
"" means, with respect to the Administrative Agent, any Lender, any Issuing Bank or any other recipient of any payment to be made by or on account of any Obligation hereunder, (a) income or franchise taxes imposed on (or measured by) its net income by the United States of America, or by the jurisdiction under the laws of which such recipient is organized or in which its principal office is located or, in the case of any Lender, in which its applicable lending office is located, (b) any branch profit taxes imposed by the United States of America or any similar tax imposed by any other jurisdiction in which such recipient is located and (c) in the case of a Foreign Lender, any withholding tax that is imposed by the United States of America (or any political subdivision thereof) on payments by the Company or a Borrowing Subsidiary organized in the United States of America from an office within such jurisdiction to the extent such tax is in effect and applicable to such payments on the date hereof or at the time such Foreign Lender becomes a party to this Agreement (or designates a new lending office) or is attributable to such Foreign Lender's failure to comply with Section 2.17(e), except to the extent that such Foreign Lender (or its assignor, if any) was entitled, at the time of designation of a new lending office (or assignment), to receive additional amounts with respect to such withholding tax pursuant to Section 2.17(a).
Excluded Taxes
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.09.
Existing Maturity Date
"" means, for any day, the weighted average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published on the next succeeding Business Day by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or, if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/100 of 1%) of the quotations for such day for such transactions received by the Administrative Agent from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it.
Federal Funds Effective Rate
"" means, with respect to any Borrower, the chief executive officer, the chief financial officer, the principal accounting officer, the treasurer, any assistant treasurer or the controller of such Borrower.
Financial Officer
"" means any Lender that is organized under the laws of a jurisdiction other than the United States of America, a State thereof or the District of Columbia.
Foreign Lender
"" means generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America.
GAAP
"" means the government of the United States of America, any other nation or any political subdivision thereof, whether state or local, and any agency, authority, instrumentality, regulatory body, court, central bank or other similar governmental entity exercising executive, legislative, judicial, taxing, regulatory or administrative powers or functions of or pertaining to government.
Governmental Authority
"" of or by any Person (the "") means any obligation, contingent or otherwise, of the guarantor guaranteeing or having the economic effect of guaranteeing any Indebtedness or other obligation of any other Person (the "") in any manner, whether directly or indirectly, and including any obligation of the guarantor, direct or indirect, (a) to purchase or pay (or advance or supply funds for the purchase or payment of) such Indebtedness or other obligation or to purchase (or to advance or supply funds for the purchase of) any security for the payment thereof, (b) to purchase or lease property, securities or services for the purpose of assuring the owner of such Indebtedness or other obligation of the payment thereof, (c) to maintain working capital, equity capital or any other financial statement condition or liquidity of the primary obligor so as to enable the primary obligor to pay such Indebtedness or other obligation or (d) as an account party in respect of any letter of credit or letter of guaranty issued to support such Indebtedness or obligation; that the term Guarantee shall not include endorsements for collection or deposit in the ordinary course of business.
Guarantee
guarantor
primary obligor
provided
"" means all explosive or radioactive substances or wastes and all hazardous or toxic substances, wastes or other pollutants, including petroleum or petroleum distillates, asbestos or asbestos containing materials, polychlorinated biphenyls, radon gas, infectious or medical wastes and all other substances or wastes of any nature regulated pursuant to any Environmental Law.
Hazardous Materials
"" means, in respect of any one or more Hedging Agreements, after taking into account the effect of any legally enforceable netting agreements relating to such Hedging Agreements, (a) for any date on or after the date such Hedging Agreements have been closed out and termination values determined in accordance therewith (but not yet paid), such termination values, and (b) for any date prior to the date referenced in clause (a), the mark-to-market values for such Hedging Agreements, determined based on one or more mid-market or other readily available quotations provided by any recognized dealer in Hedging Agreements of such type (which may include a Lender or any Affiliate of a Lender).
Hedge Termination Value
"" means any interest rate protection agreement, foreign currency exchange agreement, commodity price protection agreement or other interest or currency exchange rate or commodity price hedging arrangement.
Hedging Agreement
"" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.08(d).
Increasing Lender
"" of any Person means, without duplication, (a) all obligations of such Person for borrowed money, (b) all obligations of such Person evidenced by bonds, debentures, notes or similar instruments, (c) all obligations of such Person under conditional sale or other title retention agreements relating to property acquired by such Person, (d) all obligations of such Person in respect of the deferred purchase price of property or services (excluding (i) accounts payable incurred in the ordinary course of business and (ii) earn-outs, hold-backs, and similar deferred payment of consideration in acquisitions (but only to the extent that no payment is then owed thereunder)), (e) all Indebtedness of others secured by (or for which the holder of such Indebtedness has an existing right, contingent or otherwise, to be secured by) any Lien on property owned or acquired by such Person, whether or not the Indebtedness secured thereby has been assumed, (f) all Guarantees by such Person of Indebtedness of others, (g) all Capital Lease Obligations of such Person, (h) all Securitization Transactions of such Person, (i) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person as an account party in respect of letters of credit and letters of guaranty, (j) all obligations, contingent or otherwise, of such Person in respect of bankers' acceptances and (k) all Repurchase Obligations. The Indebtedness of any Person shall include the Indebtedness of any other entity (including any partnership in which such Person is a general partner) to the extent such Person is liable therefor as a result of such Person's ownership interest in or other relationship with such entity, except to the extent the terms of such Indebtedness provide that such Person is not liable therefor.
Indebtedness
"" means Taxes other than Excluded Taxes.
Indemnified Taxes
"" means senior, unsecured, long-term indebtedness for borrowed money of the Company that is not guaranteed by any other Person or subject to any other credit enhancement.
Index Debt
"" means the Confidential Information Memorandum dated April 2007 relating to the Company and the Transactions.
Information Memorandum
"" means a request by a Borrower to convert or continue a Revolving Borrowing in accordance with Section 2.07.
Interest Election Request
"" means (a) with respect to any ABR Loan (other than a Swingline Loan), the last day of each March, June, September and December, (b) with respect to any LIBOR Loan, the last day of the Interest Period applicable to the Borrowing of which such Loan is a part and, in the case of a LIBOR Borrowing with an Interest Period of more than three months' duration, each day prior to the last day of such Interest Period that occurs at intervals of three months' duration after the first day of such Interest Period and (c) with respect to any Swingline Loan, the day that such Swingline Loan is required to be repaid.
Interest Payment Date
"" means, with respect to any LIBOR Borrowing, the period commencing on the date of such Borrowing and ending on the numerically corresponding day in the calendar month that is one, two, three or six months (or, if agreed to by each Lender, one or two weeks or nine or twelve months) thereafter, as the applicable
Interest Period
Borrower may elect; that (a) if any Interest Period would end on a day other than a Business Day, such Interest Period shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day unless such next succeeding Business Day would fall in the next calendar month, in which case such Interest Period shall end on the next preceding Business Day and (b) any Interest Period pertaining to a LIBOR Borrowing that commences on the last Business Day of a calendar month (or on a day for which there is no numerically corresponding day in the last calendar month of such Interest Period) shall end on the last Business Day of the last calendar month of such Interest Period.  For purposes hereof, the date of a Borrowing initially shall be the date on which such Borrowing is made and thereafter shall be the effective date of the most recent conversion or continuation of such Borrowing.
provided
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Citibank N.A. and each other Lender that shall have become an Issuing Bank hereunder as provided in Section 2.05(j) (other than any Person that shall have ceased to be an Issuing Bank as provided in Section 2.05(k)), each in its capacity as an issuer of Letters of Credit hereunder. Each Issuing Bank may, in its discretion, arrange for one or more Letters of Credit to be issued by Affiliates of such Issuing Bank, in which case the term "Issuing Bank" shall include any such Affiliate with respect to Letters of Credit issued by such Affiliate.
Issuing Bank
"" means a payment made by any Issuing Bank in respect of a Letter of Credit.
LC Disbursement
"" means, at any time, (a) the aggregate undrawn amount of all outstanding Letters of Credit at such time plus (b) the aggregate amount of all LC Disbursements that have not yet been reimbursed by or on behalf of the applicable Borrowers at such time.  The LC Exposure of any Lender at any time shall be its Applicable Percentage of the aggregate LC Exposure at such time.
LC Exposure
"" means, (a) with respect to any Lender, (i) an Affiliate of such Lender or (ii) any entity (whether a corporation, partnership, trust or otherwise) that is engaged in making, purchasing, holding or otherwise investing in bank loans and similar extensions of credit in the ordinary course of its business and is administered or managed by a Lender or an Affiliate of such Lender and (b) with respect to any Lender that is a fund which invests in bank loans and similar extensions of credit, any other fund that invests in bank loans and similar extensions of credit and is managed by the same investment advisor as such Lender or by an Affiliate of such investment advisor.
Lender Affiliate
"" means the Persons listed on Schedule 2.01 and any other Person that shall have become a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption or an Accession Agreement, other than any such Person that ceases to be a party hereto pursuant to an Assignment and Assumption.  Unless the context otherwise requires, the term "Lenders" includes the Swingline Lender.
Lenders
"" means any letter of credit issued and outstanding under this Agreement.
Letter of Credit
"" means, with respect to any LIBOR Borrowing for any Interest Period, the applicable Screen Rate at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period, as the rate for dollar deposits with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period.  In the event that no Screen Rate is available at such time for any reason, then the "LIBO Rate" with respect to such LIBOR Borrowing for such Interest Period shall be the rate at which dollar deposits of $5,000,000 and for a maturity comparable to such Interest Period are offered by the principal London office of the Administrative Agent in immediately available funds in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m., London time, two Business Days prior to the commencement of such Interest Period.
LIBO Rate
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether such Loan, or the Loans comprising such Borrowing, are bearing interest at a rate determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate.
LIBOR
"" means (a) any mortgage, deed of trust, lien, pledge, hypothecation, encumbrance, charge or security interest, (b) the interest of a vendor or a lessor under any conditional sale agreement, capital lease or title retention agreement (or any financing lease having substantially the same economic effect as any of the foregoing), (c) in the case of securities, any purchase option, call or similar right of a third party with respect to such securities and (d) any assignment or sale of any income or revenues (including accounts receivable) or rights in respect thereof.
Lien
"" means the loans made by the Lenders to the Borrowers pursuant to this Agreement.
Loans
"" means an event or condition that has resulted or would be materially likely to result in (a) a materially adverse change in the business, assets, operations or financial condition of the Company and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, (b) material impairment of the ability of the Company to perform its obligations hereunder or (c) material impairment of the rights of or benefits available to the Lenders or the Administrative Agent hereunder.
Material Adverse Effect
"" means Indebtedness (other than the Loans and Letters of Credit), or obligations in respect of one or more Hedging Agreements, of any one or more of the Company and the Subsidiaries in an aggregate principal amount exceeding $100,000,000.  For purposes of determining Material Indebtedness, the "principal amount" of the obligations of the Company or any Subsidiary in respect of any Hedging Agreements at any time shall be the Hedge Termination Value thereof at such time.
Material Indebtedness
"" means any Subsidiary (a) that is a Subsidiary Borrower, (b) the consolidated assets of which equal 5% or more of the consolidated assets of the Company and the Subsidiaries as of the last day of the most recent fiscal quarter of the Company or (b) the consolidated revenues of which equal 5% or more of the consolidated revenues of the Company and the Subsidiaries for the most recent period of four consecutive fiscal quarters; that if at the end of the most recent fiscal
Material Subsidiary
provided
quarter or for the most recent period of four consecutive fiscal quarters the consolidated assets or consolidated revenues of all Subsidiaries that under clauses (b) and (c) above would not constitute Material Subsidiaries shall have exceeded 15% of the consolidated assets or 15% of the consolidated revenues of the Company  and the Subsidiaries, then one or more of such excluded Subsidiaries shall for all purposes of this Agreement be deemed to be Material Subsidiaries in descending order based on the amounts of their consolidated assets until such excess shall have been eliminated.
"" means May 11, 2012, as such date may be extended pursuant to Section 2.09.
Maturity Date
"" means a request by the Company, substantially in the form of Exhibit F hereto or such other form as shall be approved by the Administrative Agent, for the extension of the Maturity Date pursuant to Section 2.09.
Maturity Date Extension Request
"" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc., or any successor by merger or consolidation to its business.
Moody's
"" means a multiemployer plan as defined in Section 4001(a)(3) of ERISA to which the Company or any ERISA Affiliate (other than any Person considered an ERISA Affiliate only pursuant to subsection (m) or (o) of Code Section 414) is making or accruing an obligation to make contributions, or has within any of the preceding six plan years made or accrued an obligation to make contributions.
Multiemployer Plan
"" means, with respect to any Borrower, the due and punctual payment of (i) the principal of and premium, if any, and interest (including interest accruing during the pendency of any bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or other similar proceeding, regardless of whether allowed or allowable in such proceeding) on the Loans made to such Borrower, when and as due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, upon one or more dates set for prepayment or otherwise, (ii) each payment required to be made by such Borrower under this Agreement in respect of any Letter of Credit, when and as due, including payments in respect of reimbursement of LC Disbursements, interest thereon and obligations to provide cash collateral and (iii) all other monetary obligations, including fees, costs, expenses and indemnities, whether primary, secondary, direct, contingent, fixed or otherwise (including monetary obligations incurred during the pendency of any bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or other similar proceeding, regardless of whether allowed or allowable in such proceeding), of such Borrower under this Agreement.
Obligations
"" means any and all present or future stamp or documentary taxes or any other excise or property taxes, charges or similar levies arising from any payment made hereunder or from the execution, delivery or enforcement of, or otherwise with respect to, this Agreement.
Other Taxes
"" means the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation referred to and defined in ERISA and any successor entity performing similar functions.
PBGC
"" shall mean the Pension Protection Act of 2006, as amended.
Pension Act
"" means:
Permitted Liens
(a) Liens imposed by law for Taxes that are not yet due and payable or are being contested in compliance with Section 5.05;
(b) statutory Liens of landlords, carriers, warehousemen, mechanics, materialmen and suppliers, and similar Liens imposed by Law, in each case incurred in the ordinary course of business for sums not yet delinquent by more than 30 days or being contested in good faith;
(c) Liens incurred and pledges and deposits made in the ordinary course of business in connection with workers' compensation, disability or unemployment insurance, old-age pensions, retiree health benefits and other similar plans or programs and other social security laws or regulations;
(d) deposits to secure the performance of (or to secure letters of credit or letters of guarantee that secure the performance of) bids, trade contracts, leases, statutory obligations, surety and appeal bonds, performance bonds and other obligations of a like nature, in each case in the ordinary course of business;
(e) leases, licenses, subleases or sublicenses granted to others (other than as security for Indebtedness) not interfering in any material respect with the ordinary conduct of the business of the Company and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole;
(f) (i) easements, covenants, conditions, restrictions, zoning restrictions, building codes, land use laws, leases, subleases, licenses, rights of way, minor irregularities in, or lack of, title and similar encumbrances affecting real property,
(ii) with respect to any lessee's or licensee's interest in real or personal property, mortgages, liens, rights and obligations and other encumbrances arising by, through or under any owner, lessor or licensor thereof and (iii) leases, licenses, rights and obligations in connection with patents, copyrights, trademarks, tradenames and other intellectual property, in each case that do not secure the payment of Indebtedness to the extent, in the case of each of clauses (i), (ii) and (iii), that the Liens referred to therein do not, in the aggregate, materially detract from the value of the affected property as used by the Company or any Subsidiary in the ordinary course of business or interfere in any material respect with the ordinary conduct of the business of the Company and the Subsidiaries, taken as a whole;
(g) judgment liens in respect of judgments that do not constitute an Event of Default under clause (k) of Article VII, and deposits securing appeal or other surety bonds related to such judgments;
(h) Liens in favor of any Governmental Authority (i) to secure partial progress, advance or other payments pursuant to any contract or statute or (ii) to secure any Indebtedness incurred for the purpose of financing all or part of the purchase price or cost of constructing or improving the property subject to such Liens;
(i) Liens in favor of customs and revenue authorities arising as a matter of law to secure payment of customs duties in connection with the importation of goods;
(j) customary landlords' Liens under leases to which such Person is a party;
(k) Liens arising under short-term repurchase agreements or reverse repurchase agreements with respect to US Treasury securities or other cash equivalent investments, short-term securities lending and securities borrowing agreements and similar transactions employed in connection with the management of cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments;
(l) normal and customary rights of setoff, banker's Liens and similar rights in respect of deposits of cash, or in respect of investment securities accounts, in favor of banks or other depository institutions; and
(m) sales, assignments, transfers or dispositions of accounts receivable in the ordinary course of business for purposes of collection (but not as part of any Securitization Transaction or factoring arrangement).
"" means any natural person, corporation, limited liability company, trust, joint venture, association, company, partnership, Governmental Authority or other entity.
Person
"" means any employee pension benefit plan (other than a Multiemployer Plan) subject to the provisions of Title IV of ERISA or Section 412 of the Code or Section 302 of ERISA, and in respect of which the Company or any ERISA Affiliate is (or, if such plan were terminated, would under Section 4069 of ERISA be deemed to be) an "employer" as defined in Section 3(5) of ERISA.
Plan
"" means the rate of interest per annum publicly announced from time to time by JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. as its prime rate in effect at its principal office in New York City. Each change in the Prime Rate shall be effective from and including the date such change is publicly announced as being effective.
Prime Rate
"" has the meaning set forth in Section 10.04(c).
Register
"" means, with respect to any specified Person, such Person's Affiliates and the respective directors, officers, employees, agents and advisors of such Person and such Person's Affiliates.
Related Parties
"" means, at any time, the sum of (a) the World Trade Indebtedness at such time and (b) the aggregate amount of all other repurchase obligations of the Company and the Subsidiaries at such time, in each case to the extent such amounts would be shown as long-term debt on a consolidated balance sheet of the Company as of such time prepared in accordance with GAAP and in a manner consistent with the financial statements referred to in Section 3.05.
Repurchase Obligations
"" means, at any time, Lenders having Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Commitments representing more than 50% of the aggregate Revolving Credit Exposures and unused Commitments at such time.
Required Lenders
"" means, with respect to any Lender at any time, the sum at such time, without duplication, of (a) the principal amounts of such Lender's outstanding Revolving Loans, (b) the aggregate amount of such Lender's LC Exposure and (c) the aggregate amount of such Lender's Swingline Exposure.
Revolving Credit Exposure
"" means a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.01.
Revolving Loan
"" means any arrangement whereby the Company or a Subsidiary shall sell or transfer any property, real or personal, used or useful in its business, whether now owned or hereinafter acquired, and thereafter rent or lease such property or other property that it intends to use for substantially the same purpose or purposes as the property sold or transferred; that any such arrangement entered into within 180 days after the acquisition or construction of the subject property shall not be deemed to be a "Sale-Leaseback Transaction".
Sale-Leaseback Transaction
provided
"" means, in respect of the LIBO Rate for any Interest Period, the British Bankers Association Interest Settlement Rate for such Interest Period as set forth on the applicable page of the Telerate Service (and if such page is replaced or such service ceases to be available, another page or service displaying the appropriate rate designated by the Administrative Agent).
Screen Rate
"" means the Securities and Exchange Commission, or any Governmental Authority succeeding to the functions of said Commission.
SEC
"" means any transfer by the Company or any Subsidiary of accounts receivable or interests therein (a) to a trust, partnership, corporation or other entity, which transfer is funded in whole or in part, directly or indirectly, by the incurrence or issuance by the transferee or successor transferee of indebtedness or other securities that are to receive payments from, or that represent interests in, the cash flow derived from such accounts receivable or interests therein, or (b) directly to one or more investors or other purchasers.  The "amount" or "principal amount" of any Securitization Transaction shall be deemed at any time to be the aggregate principal or stated amount of the Indebtedness or other securities referred to in such clause or, if there shall be no such principal or stated amount, the uncollected amount of the Receivables transferred pursuant to such Securitization Transaction net of any such Receivables that have been written off as uncollectible.
Securitization Transaction
"" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., or any successor by merger or consolidation to its business.
S&P
"" means a fraction (expressed as a decimal), the numerator of which is the number one and the denominator of which is the number one minus the aggregate of the maximum reserve percentages (including any marginal, special, emergency or supplemental reserves) expressed as a decimal established by the Board to which the Administrative Agent is subject for LIBOR funding (currently referred to as "LIBOR Liabilities" in Regulation D of the Board).  Such reserve percentages shall include those imposed pursuant to such Regulation D.  LIBOR Loans shall be deemed to constitute LIBOR funding and to be subject to such reserve requirements without benefit of or credit for proration, exemptions or offsets that may be available from time to time to any Lender under such Regulation D or any comparable regulation. The Statutory Reserve Rate shall be adjusted automatically on and as of the effective date of any change in any reserve percentage.
Statutory Reserve Rate
"" means, with respect to any Person (the "") at any date, any corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity the accounts of which would be consolidated with those of the parent in the parent's consolidated financial statements if such financial statements were prepared in accordance with GAAP as of such date, as well as any other corporation, limited liability company, partnership, association or other entity (a) of which securities or other ownership interests representing more than 50% of the equity or more than 50% of the ordinary voting power or, in the case of a partnership, more than 50% of the general partnership interests are, as of such date, owned, controlled or held, or (b) that is, as of such date, otherwise Controlled, by the parent or one or more subsidiaries of the parent or by the parent and one or more subsidiaries of the parent.
subsidiary
parent
"" means any subsidiary of the Company.
Subsidiary
"" means, at any time, the aggregate principal amount of all Swingline Loans outstanding at such time.  The Swingline Exposure of any Lender at any time shall be such Lender's Applicable Percentage of the aggregate Swingline Exposure.
Swingline Exposure
"" means JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its capacity as lender of Swingline Loans hereunder.
Swingline Lender
"" means a Loan made pursuant to Section 2.04.
Swingline Loan
"" means any and all present or future taxes, levies, imposts, duties, deductions, charges or withholdings imposed by any Governmental Authority.
Taxes
"" means the execution, delivery and performance by the Company and the other Borrowers of this Agreement, the borrowing of Loans, the use of proceeds thereof and the issuance of Letters of Credit hereunder.
Transactions
"", when used in reference to any Loan or Borrowing, refers to whether the rate of interest on such Loan, or on the Loans comprising such Borrowing, is determined by reference to the Adjusted LIBO Rate or the Alternate Base Rate.
Type
"" means the Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001.
USA Patriot Act
"" means any Borrowing Subsidiary that is a US Subsidiary.
US Borrowing Subsidiary
"" or "" means the lawful currency of the United States of America.
US Dollars
$
"" means any Subsidiary that is organized under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or the District of Columbia.
US Subsidiary
"" means the percentage produced by dividing (a) the Revolving Credit Exposures by (b) the total Commitments, unless the Commitments shall have been terminated, in which case the Utilization Percentage shall be 100%.
Utilization Percentage
"" means liability to a Multiemployer Plan as a result of a complete or partial withdrawal from such Multiemployer Plan, as such terms are defined in Part I of Subtitle E of Title IV of ERISA.
Withdrawal Liability
"" means, at any time, the amount of the repurchase obligations at such time of Agilent Technologies World Trade, Inc., a wholly owned Subsidiary, under the World Trade Master Repurchase Agreement that would be shown as long-term debt on a consolidated balance sheet of the Company as of such time prepared in accordance with GAAP and in a manner consistent with the financial statements referred to in Section 3.05.
World Trade Indebtedness
"" means the Master Repurchase Agreement dated as of January 27, 2006, among Agilent Technologies World Trade, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, and Fenway Capital, LLC.
World Trade Master Repurchase Agreement
"" means, at any time, the aggregate amount of all cash and cash equivalents held at such time by Agilent Technologies (Cayco) Limited, an exempted company incorporated with limited liability under the laws of the Cayman Islands and a Subsidiary all the common equity of which is indirectly owned by the Company, in a custody account established in its name with The Bank of New York Trust Company (Cayman) Limited pursuant to that certain Amended and Restated Global Custody Agreement (CP Investments), dated as of January 27, 2006, between AT Cayco and a custodian.
World Trade Restricted Cash
SECTION 1.02. For purposes of this Agreement, Loans may be classified and referred to by Class (, a "Revolving Loan") or by Type (, a "LIBOR Loan") or by Class and Type (, a "LIBOR
Classification of Loans and Borrowings.
e.g.
e.g.
e.g.
Revolving Loan").  Borrowings also may be classified and referred to by Class (, a "Revolving Borrowing") or by Type (, a "LIBOR Borrowing") or by Class and Type (, a "LIBOR Revolving Borrowing").
e.g.
e.g.
e.g.
SECTION 1.03.   The definitions of terms herein shall apply equally to the singular and plural forms of the terms defined.  Whenever the context may require, any pronoun shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine and neuter forms.  The words "include", "includes" and "including" shall be deemed to be followed by the phrase "without limitation".  The word "will" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect as the word "shall".  Unless the context requires otherwise (a) any definition of or reference to any agreement, instrument or other document herein shall be construed as referring to such agreement, instrument or other document as from time to time amended, supplemented or otherwise modified (subject to any restrictions on such amendments, supplements or modifications set forth herein), (b) any reference herein to any Person shall be construed to include such Person's successors and assigns, (c) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder", and words of similar import, shall be construed to refer to this Agreement in its entirety and not to any particular provision hereof, (d) all references herein to Articles, Sections, Exhibits and Schedules shall be construed to refer to Articles and Sections of, and Exhibits and Schedules to, this Agreement and (e) the words "asset" and "property" shall be construed to have the same meaning and effect and to refer to any and all tangible and intangible assets and properties, including cash, securities, accounts and contract rights.
Terms Generally.
SECTION 1.04. Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all terms of an accounting or financial nature shall be construed in accordance with GAAP, as in effect from time to time; that, if the Company notifies the Administrative Agent that the Company requests an amendment to any provision hereof to eliminate the effect of any change occurring after the date hereof in GAAP or in the application thereof on the operation of such provision (or if the Administrative Agent notifies the Company that the Required Lenders request an amendment to any provision hereof for such purpose), regardless of whether any such notice is given before or after such change in GAAP or in the application thereof, then such provision shall be interpreted on the basis of GAAP as in effect and applied immediately before such change shall have become effective until such notice shall have been withdrawn or such provision amended in accordance herewith.
Accounting Terms; GAAP.
provided
SECTION 2.01.   Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, each Lender agrees to make Revolving Loans to the Company and the Borrowing Subsidiaries from time to time during the Availability Period in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding that will not result in (a) such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure exceeding its Commitment or (b) the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures exceeding the total Commitments.  Within the foregoing
Commitments.
limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrowers may borrow, prepay and reborrow Revolving Loans.
SECTION 2.02. (a) Each Revolving Loan shall be made as part of a Borrowing consisting of Revolving Loans made by the Lenders ratably in accordance with their respective Commitments.  The failure of any Lender to make any Revolving Loan required to be made by it shall not relieve any other Lender of its obligations hereunder; that the Commitments of the Lenders are several and no Lender shall be responsible for any other Lender's failure to make Revolving Loans as required.
Loans and Borrowings.
provided
(b) Subject to Section 2.14, each Revolving Borrowing shall be comprised entirely of ABR Loans or LIBOR Loans, as the applicable Borrower may request in accordance herewith.  Each Swingline Loan shall be an ABR Loan.  Each Lender at its option may make any Loan by causing any domestic or foreign branch or Affiliate of such Lender to make such Loan; that any exercise of such option shall not affect the obligation of the applicable Borrower to repay such Loan in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
provided
(c) At the commencement of each Interest Period for any LIBOR Revolving Borrowing, and at the time each ABR Revolving Borrowing is made, such Borrowing shall be in an aggregate amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $5,000,000; that an ABR Revolving Borrowing may be in an aggregate amount that is equal to the entire unused balance of the Commitments or that is required to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as contemplated by Section 2.05(e).  Each Swingline Loan shall be in an integral multiple of $1,000,000.  Borrowings of more than one Type may be outstanding at the same time; that there shall not at any time be more than a total of 10 LIBOR Revolving Borrowings outstanding.
provided
provided
(d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Borrowers shall not be entitled to request, or to elect to convert or continue, any Borrowing if the Interest Period requested with respect thereto would end after the Maturity Date.
SECTION 2.03. To request a Revolving Borrowing, the applicable Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent by telephone, confirmed promptly by hand delivery or fax to the Administrative Agent of a written Borrowing Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by a Financial Officer of such Borrower, (a) in the case of a LIBOR Revolving Borrowing, not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, three Business Days before the date of the proposed Borrowing and (b) in the case of an ABR Revolving Borrowing, not later than 2:00 p.m., New York City time, one Business Day before the date of the proposed Borrowing. Each such telephonic and written Borrowing Request shall be irrevocable and shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
Requests for Revolving Borrowings.
(a) the Borrower requesting such Borrowing;
(b) the principal amount of such Borrowing;
(c) the date of such Borrowing, which shall be a Business Day;
(d) the Type of such Borrowing;
(e) in the case of a LIBOR Borrowing, the initial Interest Period to be applicable thereto, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period";
(f) the location and number of the account to which funds are to be disbursed, which shall comply with the requirements of Section 2.06; and
(g) in the case of a Borrowing by a Borrowing Subsidiary that is not a US Borrowing Subsidiary, the jurisdiction from which payments of the principal and interest on such Borrowing will be made.
If no election as to the Type of Revolving Borrowing is specified, then the requested Revolving Borrowing shall be an ABR Revolving Borrowing.  If no Interest Period is specified with respect to any requested LIBOR Revolving Borrowing, then the applicable Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration. Promptly following receipt of a Borrowing Request in accordance with this Section, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of the amount of such Lender's Loan to be made as part of the requested Borrowing.
SECTION 2.04. (a) Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Swingline Lender agrees to make Swingline Loans to the Company and the Borrowing Subsidiaries from time to time during the Availability Period in an aggregate principal amount at any time outstanding that will not result in (i) the aggregate principal amount of outstanding Swingline Loans exceeding $30,000,000 or (ii) the sum of the total Revolving Credit Exposures exceeding the total Commitments; that the Swingline Lender shall not be required to make a Swingline Loan to refinance an outstanding Swingline Loan. Within the foregoing limits and subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, the Borrowers may borrow, prepay and reborrow Swingline Loans.
Swingline Loans.
provided
(b) To request a Swingline Loan, the applicable Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent by telephone, confirmed promptly by hand delivery or fax, not later than 1:00 p.m., New York City time, on the day of a proposed Swingline Loan.  Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the requested date of such Swingline Loan (which shall be a Business Day) and the principal amount of  such Swingline Loan. The Administrative Agent will promptly advise the Swingline Lender of any such notice received by it. The Swingline Lender shall make each Swingline Loan available to applicable Borrower by means of a credit to the general deposit account of such Borrower with the Swingline Lender (or, in the case of a Swingline Loan made to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as provided in Section 2.05(e), by remittance to the applicable Issuing Bank) by 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the requested date of such Swingline Loan.
(c) The Swingline Lender may by written notice given to the Administrative Agent not later than 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on any Business Day require the Lenders to acquire participations on such Business Day in all or a portion of the Swingline Loans outstanding. Such notice shall specify the aggregate amount of Swingline Loans in which the Lenders will participate.  Promptly following receipt of such notice, the Administrative Agent will give notice thereof to each Lender, specifying in such notice such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such Swingline Loan or Loans.  Each Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees, upon receipt of notice as provided above, to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of the Swingline Lender, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of such Swingline Loan or Loans.  Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations pursuant to this paragraph in Swingline Loans is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever.  Each Lender shall comply with its obligations under this paragraph by wire transfer of immediately available funds, in the same manner as provided in Section 2.06 with respect to Revolving Loans made by such Lender (and Section 2.06 shall apply, mutatis mutandis, to the payment obligations of the Lenders), and the Administrative Agent shall promptly pay to the Swingline Lender the amounts so received by it from the Lenders.  The Administrative Agent shall notify the relevant Borrower of any participations in any Swingline Loan acquired pursuant to this paragraph, and thereafter payments in respect of such Swingline Loan shall be made to the Administrative Agent and not to the Swingline Lender.  Any amounts received by the Swingline Lender from the relevant Borrower (or other party on behalf of such Borrower) in respect of a Swingline Loan after receipt by the Swingline Lender of the proceeds of a sale of participations therein shall be promptly remitted to the Administrative Agent; any such amounts received by the Administrative Agent shall be promptly remitted by the Administrative Agent to the Lenders that shall have made their payments pursuant to this paragraph and to the Swingline Lender, as their interests may appear; that any such payment so remitted shall be repaid to the Swingline Lender or to the Administrative Agent, as applicable, if and to the extent such payment is required to be refunded to any Borrower for any reason. The purchase of participations in a Swingline Loan pursuant to this paragraph shall not relieve any Borrower of any default in the payment thereof.
provided
SECTION 2.05. (a) .  Subject to the terms and conditions set forth herein, any Borrower may request any Issuing Bank to issue Letters of Credit (or to amend, renew or extend outstanding Letters of Credit) for its own account or, so long as the Company is a joint and several co-applicant with respect thereto, for the account of any Subsidiary, in a form reasonably acceptable to the Administrative Agent and the applicable Issuing Bank, at any time and from time to time during the Availability Period. In the event of any inconsistency between the terms and conditions of this Agreement and the terms and conditions of any form of letter of credit application or other agreement submitted by any Borrower to, or entered into by any Borrower with, an Issuing Bank relating to any Letter of Credit, the terms and conditions of this Agreement shall control.  The Company unconditionally and irrevocably agrees that, in connection with any Letter of Credit issued for the account of any Subsidiary as provided
Letters of Credit.
General
in the first sentence of this paragraph, the Company will be fully responsible for the reimbursement of LC Disbursements, the payment of interest thereon and the payment of fees due under Section 2.12(b) to the same extent as if it were the sole account party in respect of such Letter of Credit (the Company hereby irrevocably waiving any defenses that might otherwise be available to it as a guarantor of the obligations of any Subsidiary that shall be an account party in respect of any such Letter of Credit).
(b) .  To request the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or the amendment, renewal or extension of an outstanding Letter of Credit), the requesting Borrower shall deliver (or transmit by electronic communication, if arrangements for doing so have been approved by the applicable Issuing Bank) to the applicable Issuing Bank and the Administrative Agent, reasonably in advance of the requested date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension, a notice requesting the issuance of a Letter of Credit, or identifying the Letter of Credit to be amended, renewed or extended, and specifying the date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension (which shall be a Business Day), the date on which such Letter of Credit is to expire (which shall comply with paragraph (c) of this Section), the amount of such Letter of Credit, the name and address of the beneficiary thereof and such other information as shall be reasonably necessary to enable the applicable Issuing Bank to prepare, amend, renew or extend such Letter of Credit.  If requested by the applicable Issuing Bank, the applicable Borrower also shall submit a letter of credit application on such Issuing Bank's standard form in connection with any request for a Letter of Credit.  A Letter of Credit shall be issued, amended, renewed or extended only if (and upon issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of each Letter of Credit the applicable Borrower shall be deemed to represent and warrant that), after giving effect to such issuance, amendment, renewal or extension (i) the LC Exposure shall not exceed $50,000,000, (ii) the total Revolving Credit Exposures will not exceed the total Commitments and (iii) in the event the Maturity Date shall have been extended as provided in Section 2.09, the LC Exposures attributable to Letters of Credit expiring after any Existing Maturity Date shall not exceed the total Commitments that have been extended to a date after the expiration date of the last of such Letters of Credit.
Notice of Issuance, Amendment, Renewal, Extension; Certain Conditions
(c)   Each Letter of Credit shall expire at or prior to the close of business on the earlier of (i) the date one year after the date of the issuance of such Letter of Credit (or, in the case of any renewal or extension thereof, one year after such renewal or extension) and (ii) the date that is five Business Days prior to the Maturity Date. A Letter of Credit may provide for automatic renewals for additional periods of up to one year subject to a right on the part of the applicable Issuing Bank to prevent any such renewal from occurring by giving notice to the beneficiary during a specified period in advance of any such renewal, and the failure of such Issuing Bank to give such notice by the end of such period shall for all purposes hereof be deemed an extension of such Letter of Credit; that in no event shall any Letter of Credit, as extended from time to time, expire after the date that is five Business Days prior to the Maturity Date.
Expiration Date.
provided
(d)   By the issuance of a Letter of Credit (or an amendment to a Letter of Credit increasing the amount thereof) and without any further action on the
Participations.
 
part of the applicable Issuing Bank or the Lenders, the applicable Issuing Bank hereby grants to each Lender, and each Lender hereby acquires from such Issuing Bank, a participation in such Letter of Credit equal to such Lender's Applicable Percentage from time to time of the aggregate amount available to be drawn under such Letter of Credit.  In consideration and in furtherance of the foregoing, each Lender hereby absolutely and unconditionally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for the account of such Issuing Bank, such Lender's Applicable Percentage of each LC Disbursement made by such Issuing Bank and not reimbursed by the applicable Borrower on the date due as provided in paragraph (e) of this Section, or of any reimbursement payment required to be refunded to the applicable Borrower for any reason.  Each Lender acknowledges and agrees that its obligation to acquire participations pursuant to this paragraph in respect of Letters of Credit is absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstance whatsoever, including any amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or the occurrence and continuance of a Default or reduction or termination of the Commitments, and that each such payment shall be made without any offset, abatement, withholding or reduction whatsoever.
(e)   If an Issuing Bank shall make any LC Disbursement in respect of a Letter of Credit, the applicable Borrower shall reimburse such LC Disbursement by paying to the Administrative Agent an amount equal to such LC Disbursement not later than 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on the date that such LC Disbursement is made, if such Borrower shall have received notice of such LC Disbursement prior to 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on such date, or, if such notice has not been received by such Borrower prior to such time on such date, then not later than 3:00 p.m., New York City time, on (i) the Business Day that such Borrower receives such notice, if such notice is received prior to 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on the day of receipt, or (ii) the Business Day immediately following the day that such Borrower receives such notice, if such notice is not received prior to such time on the day of receipt; that the applicable Borrower may, subject to the conditions to borrowing set forth herein, request in accordance with Section 2.03 or 2.04 that such payment be financed with an ABR Revolving Borrowing or a Swingline Loan in an equivalent amount and, to the extent so financed, such Borrower's obligation to make such payment shall be discharged and replaced by the resulting ABR Revolving Borrowing or Swingline Loan. If such Borrower fails to make such payment when due, the applicable Issuing Bank shall notify the Administrative Agent of such failure in accordance with Section 2.05(l), and the Administrative Agent shall in turn notify each Lender of the applicable LC Disbursement, the amount of the payment then due from such Borrower in respect thereof and such Lender's Applicable Percentage thereof.  Promptly following receipt of such notice, each Lender shall pay to the Administrative Agent its Applicable Percentage of the payment then due from such Borrower, in the same manner as provided in Section 2.06 with respect to Revolving Loans made by such Lender (and Section 2.06 shall apply, , to the payment obligations of the Lenders), and the Administrative Agent shall promptly pay to such Issuing Bank the amounts so received by it from the Lenders.  Promptly following receipt by the Administrative Agent of any payment from a Borrower pursuant to this paragraph, the Administrative Agent shall distribute such payment to such Issuing Bank or, to the extent that Lenders have made payments pursuant to this paragraph to reimburse such Issuing
Reimbursement.
provided
mutatis
mutandis
Bank, then to such Lenders and such Issuing Bank, as their interests may appear.  Any payment made by a Lender pursuant to this paragraph to reimburse such Issuing Bank for any LC Disbursement (other than the funding of ABR Revolving Loans or a Swingline Loan as contemplated above) shall not constitute a Loan and shall not relieve the applicable Borrower of its obligation to reimburse such LC Disbursement.
(f)   Each Borrower's obligation to reimburse LC Disbursements as provided in paragraph (e) of this Section shall be absolute, unconditional and irrevocable, and shall be performed strictly in accordance with the terms of this Agreement under any and all circumstances whatsoever and irrespective of
Obligations Absolute.
(i) any lack of validity or enforceability of any Letter of Credit or this Agreement or any term or provision therein, (ii) any draft or other document presented under a Letter of Credit proving to be forged, fraudulent or invalid in any respect or any statement therein being untrue or inaccurate in any respect, (iii) payment by the applicable Issuing Bank under a Letter of Credit against presentation of a draft or other document that does not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit or (iv) any other event or circumstance whatsoever, whether or not similar to any of the foregoing, that might, but for the provisions of this Section, constitute a legal or equitable discharge of, or provide a right of setoff against, the applicable Borrower's obligations hereunder.  None of the Administrative Agent, the Lenders, any Issuing Bank or any of their Related Parties shall have any liability or responsibility by reason of or in connection with the issuance or transfer of any Letter of Credit or any payment or failure to make any payment thereunder (irrespective of any of the circumstances referred to in the preceding sentence), or any error, omission, interruption, loss or delay in transmission or delivery of any draft, notice or other communication under or relating to any Letter of Credit (including any document required to make a drawing thereunder), any error in interpretation of technical terms or any consequence arising from causes beyond the control of such Issuing Bank; that nothing in this Section shall be construed to excuse an Issuing Bank from liability to the applicable Borrower to the extent of any direct damages (as opposed to consequential damages, claims in respect of which are hereby waived by each Borrower to the extent permitted by applicable law) suffered by such Borrower that are caused by such Issuing Bank's failure to exercise care when determining whether drafts and other documents presented under a Letter of Credit comply with the terms thereof.  The parties hereto expressly agree that, in the absence of gross negligence or willful misconduct on the part of an Issuing Bank (as finally determined by a non-appealable judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction), such Issuing Bank shall be deemed to have exercised care in each such determination.  In furtherance of the foregoing and without limiting the generality thereof, the parties agree that, with respect to documents presented that appear on their face to be in substantial compliance with the terms of a Letter of Credit, an Issuing Bank may, in its sole discretion, either accept and make payment upon such documents without responsibility for further investigation, regardless of any notice or information to the contrary, or refuse to accept and make payment upon such documents if such documents are not in strict compliance with the terms of such Letter of Credit.
provided
(g) The applicable Issuing Bank shall, promptly following its receipt thereof, examine all documents purporting to represent a
Disbursement Procedures.
demand for payment under a Letter of Credit.  Such Issuing Bank shall promptly notify the Administrative Agent and the applicable Borrower by telephone (confirmed by fax) of such demand for payment and whether such Issuing Bank has made or will make an LC Disbursement thereunder; that any failure to give or delay in giving such notice shall not relieve the applicable Borrower of its obligation to reimburse such Issuing Bank and the Lenders with respect to any such LC Disbursement.
provided
(h)   If an Issuing Bank shall make any LC Disbursement, then, unless the applicable Borrower shall reimburse such LC Disbursement in full on the date such LC Disbursement is made, the unpaid amount thereof shall bear interest, for each day from and including the date such LC Disbursement is made to but excluding the date that such Borrower reimburses such LC Disbursement at the rate per annum then applicable to ABR Revolving Loans; that, if such Borrower fails to reimburse such LC Disbursement when due pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section, then Section 2.13(c) shall apply.  Interest accrued pursuant to this paragraph shall be for the account of the applicable Issuing Bank, except that interest accrued on and after the date of payment by any Lender pursuant to paragraph (e) of this Section to reimburse such Issuing Bank shall be for the account of such Lender to the extent of such payment.
Interim Interest.
provided
(i) If any Event of Default shall occur and be continuing, on the Business Day that the Company receives notice from the Administrative Agent or the Required Lenders (or, if the maturity of the Loans has been accelerated, Lenders with LC Exposures representing more than 50% of the aggregate amount of LC Exposure) demanding the deposit of cash collateral pursuant to this paragraph, each applicable Borrower shall deposit in respect of each outstanding Letter of Credit issued for such Borrower's account (or, in the case of the Company, with respect to which it is a co-applicant), in an account with the Administrative Agent, in the name of the Administrative Agent and for the benefit of the Lenders and the applicable Issuing Bank, an amount in cash equal to the portion of the LC Exposure attributable to such Letter of Credit as of such date plus any accrued and unpaid interest thereon; that the obligation to cash collateralize shall become effective immediately, and such deposit shall become immediately due and payable, without demand or other notice of any kind, upon the occurrence of any Event of Default with respect to the Company or any Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of Article VII.  Each such deposit shall be held by the Administrative Agent as collateral for the payment and performance of the obligations of the Borrowers under this Agreement.  The Administrative Agent shall have exclusive dominion and control, including the exclusive right of withdrawal, over such account. Other than any interest earned on the investment of such deposits, which investments shall be made at the option and sole discretion of the Administrative Agent and at the Borrowers' risk and expense, such deposits shall not bear interest.  Interest or profits, if any, on such investments shall accumulate in such account.  Monies in such account shall be applied by the Administrative Agent to reimburse the applicable Issuing Banks for LC Disbursements for which they have not been reimbursed and, to the extent not so applied, shall be held for the satisfaction of the reimbursement obligations of the Borrowers for the LC Exposure at such time or, if the maturity of the Loans has been accelerated (but subject to the consent of Lenders with LC Exposures representing more than 50% of the aggregate amount of LC Exposure), be applied to satisfy other
Cash Collateralization.
provided
obligations of the Borrowers under this Agreement.  If the Borrowers are required to provide cash collateral hereunder as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Default, such cash collateral (to the extent not applied as aforesaid) shall be returned to the Borrowers within three Business Days after all Events of Default have been cured or waived.
(j)   From time to time, the Company may by notice to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders designate as additional Issuing Banks one or more Lenders that agree to serve in such capacity as provided below. The acceptance by a Lender of any appointment as an Issuing Bank hereunder shall be evidenced by an agreement, which shall be in a form satisfactory to the Company and the Administrative Agent, executed by such Lender, the Company and the Administrative Agent and, from and after the effective date of such agreement, (i) such Lender shall have all the rights and obligations of an Issuing Bank under this Agreement and (ii) references herein to the term "Issuing Bank" shall be deemed to include such Lender in its capacity as an Issuing Bank.
Designation of Additional Issuing Banks.
(k)   The Company may terminate the appointment of any Issuing Bank as an "Issuing Bank" hereunder by providing a written notice thereof to such Issuing Bank and the Administrative Agent.  Any such termination shall become effective upon the earlier of (i) such Issuing Bank acknowledging receipt of such notice and (ii) the 10th Business Day following the date of the delivery thereof.  At the time any such termination shall become effective, the Company shall pay all unpaid fees accrued for the account of the terminated Issuing Bank pursuant to Section 2.12(b).  From and after the effective date of any such termination, the terminated Issuing Bank shall remain a party hereto and shall continue to have all the rights and obligations of an Issuing Bank under this Agreement with respect to Letters of Credit issued by it prior to such replacement, but shall not issue additional Letters of Credit.
Termination of an Issuing Bank.
(l)   Unless otherwise agreed by the Administrative Agent, each Issuing Bank shall report in writing to the Administrative Agent (i) on or prior to each Business Day on which such Issuing Bank issues, amends, renews or extends any Letter of Credit, the date of such issuance, amendment, renewal or extension, and the face amounts of the Letters of Credit issued, amended, renewed or extended by it and outstanding after giving effect to such issuance, amendment, renewal or extension (and whether the amounts thereof shall have changed), it being understood that such Issuing Bank shall not effect any issuance, renewal, extension or amendment resulting in an increase in the aggregate amount of the Letters of Credit issued by it without first obtaining written confirmation from the Administrative Agent that such increase is then permitted under this Agreement, (ii) on any Business Day on which such Issuing Bank makes any LC Disbursement, the date and amount of such LC Disbursement, (iii) on any Business Day on which the applicable Borrower fails to reimburse an LC Disbursement required to be reimbursed to such Issuing Bank on such day, the date of such failure and the amount of such LC Disbursement and (iv) on any other Business Day, such other information as the Administrative Agent shall reasonably request as to the Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank.
Issuing Bank Reports.
SECTION 2.06. (a) Each Lender shall make each Loan to be made by it hereunder on the proposed date thereof by wire transfer of immediately available funds by 1:30 p.m., New York City time, to the account of the Administrative Agent most recently designated by it for such purpose by notice to the Lenders. The Administrative Agent will make such Revolving Loans available to the applicable Borrower by promptly crediting the amounts so received, in like funds, to the account designated by such Borrower in the applicable Borrowing Request; that ABR Revolving Loans made to finance the reimbursement of an LC Disbursement as provided in Section 2.05(e) shall be remitted by the Administrative Agent to the applicable Issuing Bank.
Funding of Borrowings.
provided
(b) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Lender prior to the proposed date of any Revolving Borrowing that such Lender will not make available to the Administrative Agent such Lender's share of such Revolving Borrowing, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Lender has made such share available on such date in accordance with paragraph (a) of this Section and may, in reliance upon such assumption, make available to the applicable Borrower a corresponding amount.  In such event, if a Lender has not in fact made its share of the applicable Revolving Borrowing available to the Administrative Agent, then the applicable Lender and such Borrower severally agree to pay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand such corresponding amount with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is made available to such Borrower to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at (i) in the case of such Lender, the rate reasonably determined by the Administrative Agent to be the cost to it of funding such amount or (ii) in the case of such Borrower, the interest rate applicable to the subject Revolving Loan pursuant to Section 2.13 (it being understood that nothing in this paragraph shall require any Borrower to pay any interest in duplication of the interest payable under such Section).
SECTION 2.07. (a) Each Revolving Borrowing initially shall be of the Type specified in the applicable Borrowing Request and, in the case of a LIBOR Borrowing, shall have an initial Interest Period as specified in such Borrowing Request. Thereafter, the applicable Borrower may elect to convert such Revolving Borrowing to a Revolving Borrowing of a different Type or to continue such Revolving Borrowing and, in the case of a LIBOR Borrowing, may elect Interest Periods therefor, all as provided in this Section and on terms consistent with the other provisions of this Agreement.  A Borrower may elect different options with respect to different portions of an affected Revolving Borrowing, in which case each such portion shall be allocated ratably among the Lenders holding the Loans comprising such Revolving Borrowing and the Loans resulting from an election made with respect to any such portion shall be considered a separate Revolving Borrowing.  This Section shall not apply to Swingline Loans, which may not be converted or continued.
Interest Elections.
(b) To make an election pursuant to this Section, the electing Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent of such election by telephone by the time that a Borrowing Request would be required under Section 2.03 if such Borrower were requesting a Revolving Borrowing of the Type resulting from such election to be made
on the effective date of such election. Each such Interest Election Request shall be irrevocable and shall be confirmed promptly by hand delivery or fax to the Administrative Agent of a written Interest Election Request in a form approved by the Administrative Agent and signed by a Financial Officer on behalf of the applicable Borrower. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Section, a Borrower shall not be permitted to elect an Interest Period for LIBOR Loans that does not comply with Section 2.02(d).
(c) Each telephonic and written Interest Election Request shall specify the following information in compliance with Section 2.02:
(i) the Borrowing to which such Interest Election Request applies and, if different options are being elected with respect to different portions thereof, the portions thereof to be allocated to each resulting Borrowing (in which case the information to be specified pursuant to clauses (iii) and (iv) below shall be specified for each resulting Borrowing;
(ii) the effective date of the election made pursuant to such Interest Election Request, which shall be a Business Day;
(iii) the Type of the resulting Borrowing; and
(iv) if the resulting Borrowing is to be a LIBOR Borrowing, the Interest Period to be applicable thereto after giving effect to such election, which shall be a period contemplated by the definition of the term "Interest Period".
If any such Interest Election Request requests a LIBOR Revolving Borrowing but does not specify an Interest Period, then the applicable Borrower shall be deemed to have selected an Interest Period of one month's duration.
(d) Promptly following receipt of an Interest Election Request, the Administrative Agent shall advise each Lender of the details thereof and of such Lender's portion of each resulting Revolving Borrowing.
(e) If the applicable Borrower fails to deliver a timely Interest Election Request with respect to a LIBOR Revolving Borrowing prior to the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto, then, unless such Borrowing is repaid as provided herein, at the end of such Interest Period, such Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Revolving Borrowing.
(f) Notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof, if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and the Administrative Agent, at the request of the Required Lenders, so notifies the Borrowers, then, so long as an Event of Default is continuing (i) no outstanding Revolving Borrowing may be converted to or continued as a LIBOR Borrowing and (ii) unless repaid, each LIBOR Revolving Borrowing shall be converted to an ABR Revolving Borrowing at the end of the Interest Period applicable thereto.
SECTION 2.08.
Termination, Reduction and Increase of Commitments.
(a) Unless previously terminated, the Commitments shall terminate on the Maturity Date.
(b) The Company may at any time terminate, or from time to time reduce, the Commitments; that (i) each reduction of the Commitments shall be in an amount that is an integral multiple of $1,000,000 and not less than $10,000,000 and (ii) the Company shall not terminate or reduce the Commitments if, after giving effect thereto and any concurrent prepayment of the Loans in accordance with Section 2.11, the total Revolving Credit Exposures would exceed the total Commitments.
provided
(c) The Company shall notify the Administrative Agent of any election to terminate or reduce the Commitments under paragraph (b) of this Section at least three Business Days prior to the effective date of such termination or reduction, specifying such election and the effective date thereof. Promptly following receipt of any notice, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof.  Each notice delivered by the Company pursuant to this Section shall be irrevocable; that a notice of termination of the Commitments delivered by the Company may state that such notice is conditioned upon the effectiveness of other credit facilities, in which case such notice may be revoked by the Company (by notice to the Administrative Agent on or prior to the specified effective date) if such condition is not satisfied.  Any termination or reduction of the Commitments shall be permanent.  Each reduction of the Commitments shall be made ratably among the Lenders in accordance with their respective Commitments.
provided
(d) The Company may from time to time, by written notice to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly deliver a copy to each of the Lenders) executed by the Company and one or more financial institutions (which may include any Lender) that are willing to extend a Commitment or, in the case of any such financial institution that is already a Lender, to increase its Commitment (any such financial institution referred to in this Section being called an ""), cause the total Commitments to be increased by such new or incremental Commitments of the Increasing Lenders, in an amount for each Increasing Lender as set forth in such notice; that (i) the aggregate principal amount of any increase in the total Commitments made pursuant to this Section shall not be less than $25,000,000 and the aggregate principal amount of all such increases shall not exceed $200,000,000, (ii) each Increasing Lender, if not already a Lender hereunder, shall be subject to the prior written approval of the Administrative Agent, each Issuing Bank and the Swingline Lender (which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld) and (iii) each Increasing Lender, if not already a Lender hereunder, shall become a party to this Agreement by completing and delivering to the Administrative Agent a duly executed Accession Agreement.  New Commitments and increases in Commitments created pursuant to this Section shall become effective
Increasing Lender
provided
(A) in the case of an Increasing Lender already a Lender under this Agreement, on the date specified in the applicable notice delivered pursuant to this Section and (B) in the case of an Increasing Lender not already a Lender under this Agreement, on the effective date of the applicable Accession Agreement.  Upon the effectiveness of any Accession Agreement to which any Increasing Lender is a party, such Increasing Lender shall thereafter be deemed to be a party to this Agreement and shall be entitled to all rights,
benefits and privileges accorded a Lender hereunder and subject to all obligations of a Lender hereunder. Upon the effectiveness of any increase pursuant to this Section in the Commitment of a Lender already a party hereto, Schedule 2.01 shall be deemed to have been amended to reflect the increased Commitment of such Lender.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no increase in the aggregate Commitments (or in the Commitment of any Lender) shall become effective under this Section unless (i) the Administrative Agent shall have received documents consistent with those delivered under paragraphs (b) and
(c) of Section 4.01 as to the corporate power and authority of the Borrowers to borrow hereunder after giving effect to such increase and (ii) on the date of such increase, the conditions set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.02 shall be satisfied (with all references in such paragraphs to a Borrowing being deemed to be references to such increase and without giving effect to the parenthetical in Section 4.02(a)) and the Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate to that effect dated such date and executed by a Financial Officer of the Company.  Following any extension of a new Commitment or increase of a Lender's Commitment pursuant to this paragraph, any Loans outstanding prior to the effectiveness of such increase or extension shall continue outstanding until the ends of the respective Interests Periods applicable thereto, and shall then be repaid and, if the Borrowers shall so elect, refinanced with new Revolving Loans made pursuant to Section 2.01(a) ratably in accordance with the Commitments in effect following such extension or increase.
SECTION 2.09.   The Company may, by delivery of a Maturity Date Extension Request to the Administrative Agent (which shall promptly deliver a copy to each of the Lenders) not less than 45 days and not more than 75 days prior to any anniversary of the Effective Date, request that the Lenders extend the Maturity Date for an additional period of one year; that there shall be no more than two extensions of the Maturity Date pursuant to this Section.  Each Lender shall, by notice to the Company and the Administrative Agent given not later than the 20th day after the date of the Administrative Agent's receipt of the Company's Maturity Date Extension Request, advise the Company whether or not it agrees to the requested extension (each Lender agreeing to a requested extension being called a "", and each Lender declining to agree to a requested extension being called a ""). Any Lender that has not so advised the Company and the Administrative Agent by such day shall be deemed to have declined to agree to such extension and shall be a Declining Lender.  If Lenders constituting the Required Lenders shall have agreed to a Maturity Date Extension Request, then the Maturity Date shall, as to the Consenting Lenders, be extended to the first anniversary of the Maturity Date theretofore in effect. The decision to agree or withhold agreement to any Maturity Date Extension Request shall be at the sole discretion of each Lender.  The Commitment of any Declining Lender shall terminate on the Maturity Date in effect prior to giving effect to any such extension (such Maturity Date being called the ""). The principal amount of any outstanding Loans made by Declining Lenders, together with any accrued interest thereon and any accrued fees and other amounts payable to or for the account of such Declining Lenders hereunder, shall be due and payable on the Existing Maturity Date, and on the Existing Maturity Date the Borrowers shall also make such other prepayments of their Loans pursuant to Section 2.11 as shall be required in order that, after giving effect to the termination of the Commitments of, and all payments
Extension of Maturity Date.
provided
Consenting Lender
Declining Lender
Existing Maturity Date
to, Declining Lenders pursuant to this sentence, the total Revolving Credit Exposures would not exceed the total Commitments.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this paragraph, the Company shall have the right, pursuant to Section 2.19(b), at any time prior to the Existing Maturity Date, to replace a Declining Lender with a Lender or other financial institution that will agree to the applicable Maturity Date Extension Request, and any such replacement Lender shall for all purposes constitute a Consenting Lender.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no extension of the Maturity Date pursuant to this paragraph shall become effective unless on the anniversary of the Effective Date that immediately follows the date on which the Company delivers the applicable Maturity Date Extension Request, the conditions set forth in Section 4.02 shall be satisfied (with all references in such Section to a Borrowing being deemed to be references to such increase and without giving effect to the parenthetical in Section 4.02(a))  and the Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate to that effect dated such date and executed by a Financial Officer of the Company.
SECTION 2.10. (a) Each Borrower hereby unconditionally promises to pay to (i) the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Revolving Loan made to such Borrower on the Maturity Date and (ii) the Swingline Lender the then unpaid principal amount of each Swingline Loan made to such Borrower on the earlier of the Maturity Date and the first Business Day after such Swingline Loan is made that is the 15th day or the last day of a calendar month and that is at least two Business Days after the day on which such Swingline Loan shall have been made; that on each date on which a Revolving Borrowing is made by a Borrower, such Borrower shall repay all Swingline Loans then outstanding for the account of such Borrower.
Repayment of Loans; Evidence of Debt.
provided
(b) Each Lender shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of each Borrower to such Lender resulting from each Loan made by such Lender, including the amounts of principal and interest payable and paid to such Lender from time to time hereunder.
(c) The Administrative Agent shall maintain accounts in which it shall record (i) the amount of each Loan made hereunder, the Class and Type thereof and the Interest Period applicable thereto, (ii) the amount of any principal or interest due and payable or to become due and payable from each Borrower to each Lender hereunder and (iii) the amount of any sum received by the Administrative Agent hereunder for the account of the Lenders and each Lender's share thereof.
(d) The entries made in the accounts maintained pursuant to paragraph (b) or (c) of this Section shall be evidence of the existence and amounts of the obligations recorded therein absent manifest error; that the failure of any Lender or the Administrative Agent to maintain such accounts or any error therein shall not in any manner affect the obligation of any Borrower to repay the Loans in accordance with the terms of this Agreement.
prima facie
provided
(e) Any Lender may request that Loans made by it be evidenced by a promissory note.  In such event, each Borrower shall prepare, execute and deliver to such
Lender a promissory note payable to the order of such Lender (or, if requested by such Lender, to such Lender and its registered assigns) and in a form approved by the Company and the Administrative Agent.  Thereafter, the Loans evidenced by such promissory note and interest thereon shall at all times (including after assignment pursuant to Section 10.04) be represented by one or more promissory notes in such form payable to the order of the payee named therein (or, if such promissory note is a registered note, to such payee and its registered assigns).
SECTION 2.11. (a) Any Borrower shall have the right at any time and from time to time to prepay any Borrowing of such Borrower in whole or in part, subject to prior notice in accordance with paragraph (d) of this Section.
Prepayment of Loans.
(b) If the total Revolving Credit Exposures shall exceed the aggregate Commitments, then the Borrowers shall prepay one or more Revolving Borrowings or Swingline Loans (and, if no Revolving Borrowings or Swingline Loans are outstanding, deposit cash collateral in an account with the Administrative Agent pursuant to Section 2.05(i)) in the amount necessary to eliminate such excess.
(c) Prior to any optional or mandatory prepayment of Borrowings hereunder, the Borrowers shall select the Borrowing or Borrowings to be prepaid and shall specify such selection in the notice of such prepayment pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section.
(d) The applicable Borrower shall notify the Administrative Agent (and, in the case of prepayment of a Swingline Loan, the Swingline Lender) by a written notice signed by a Financial Officer on behalf of the applicable Borrower of any prepayment of a Borrowing hereunder (i) in the case of a LIBOR Borrowing not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, three Business Days before the date of such prepayment (or, in the case of a prepayment under paragraph (b) above, as soon thereafter as practicable), (ii) in the case of an ABR Revolving Borrowing, not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the date of such prepayment and (iii) in the case of prepayment of a Swingline Loan, not later than 12:00 noon, New York City time, on the date of prepayment.  Each such notice shall be irrevocable and shall specify the prepayment date and the principal amount of each Borrowing or portion thereof to be prepaid; that, if a notice of optional prepayment is given in connection with a conditional notice of termination of the Commitments as contemplated by Section 2.08(c), then such notice of prepayment may be revoked if such notice of termination is revoked in accordance with Section 2.08(c). Promptly following receipt of any such notice, the Administrative Agent shall advise the Lenders of the contents thereof. Each optional partial prepayment of any Borrowing shall be in an amount that would be permitted in the case of an advance of a Borrowing of the same Type as provided in Section 2.02.  Each prepayment of a Borrowing shall be applied ratably to the Loans included in the prepaid Borrowing.
provided
SECTION 2.12. (a) The Company agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a facility fee, which shall accrue at the Applicable Rate on the daily amount of the Commitment of such Lender (whether used or unused) during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding
Fees.
the date on which such Commitment terminates; that if such Lender continues to have any Revolving Credit Exposure after its Commitment terminates, then such facility fee shall continue to accrue on the daily amount of such Lender's Revolving Credit Exposure from and including the date on which its Commitment terminates to but excluding the date on which such Lender ceases to have any Revolving Credit Exposure.  Accrued facility fees shall be payable in arrears on the last day of March, June, September and December of each year, commencing on the first such date to occur after the Effective Date, and on the date on which the Commitments shall have terminated and the Lenders shall have no Revolving Credit Exposure.  All facility fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).
provided
(b) The Company agrees to pay (i) to the Administrative Agent for the account of each Lender a participation fee with respect to its participations in Letters of Credit, which shall accrue at the same Applicable Rate used to determine the interest rate applicable to LIBOR Revolving Loans on the average daily amount of such Lender's LC Exposure (excluding any portion thereof attributable to unreimbursed LC Disbursements) during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the later of the date on which such Lender's Commitment terminates and the date on which such Lender ceases to have any LC Exposure, and (ii) to each Issuing Bank a fronting fee, which shall accrue at 0.125% per annum on the average daily amount of the LC Exposure attributable to Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank (excluding any portion thereof attributable to unreimbursed LC Disbursements) during the period from and including the Effective Date to but excluding the later of the date of termination of the Commitments and the date on which there ceases to be any LC Exposure, as well as such Issuing Bank's standard fees with respect to the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or processing of drawings thereunder.  Accrued participation fees and fronting fees shall be payable in arrears on the last day of March, June, September and December of each year, commencing on the first such date to occur after the Effective Date; that all such fees shall be payable on the date on which the Commitments terminate and any such fees accruing after the date on which the Commitments terminate shall be payable on demand.  Any other fees payable to the Issuing Bank pursuant to this paragraph shall be payable within 10 days after demand.  All participation fees and fronting fees shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days and shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).
provided
(c) The Company agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, for its own account, fees payable in the amounts and at the times separately agreed upon between the Company and the Administrative Agent.
(d) All fees payable hereunder shall be paid on the dates due, in immediately available funds, to the Administrative Agent (or to the Issuing Banks, in the case of fees payable to it) for distribution to the Persons entitled thereto.  Fees paid shall not be refundable under any circumstances.
SECTION 2.13. (a) The Loans comprising each ABR Borrowing (including each Swingline Loan) shall bear interest at the Alternate Base Rate.
Interest.
(b) The Loans comprising each LIBOR Revolving Borrowing shall bear interest at the Adjusted LIBO Rate for the Interest Period in effect for such Borrowing plus the Applicable Rate.
(c) Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any principal of or interest on any Loan or any fee or other amount payable by any Borrower hereunder is not paid when due, whether at stated maturity, upon acceleration or otherwise, such overdue amount shall bear interest, after as well as before judgment, at a rate per annum equal to (i) in the case of overdue principal of any Loan, 2% per annum plus the rate otherwise applicable to such Loan as provided in the preceding paragraphs of this Section or (ii) in the case of any other amount, 2% per annum plus the rate applicable to ABR Loans as provided in paragraph (a) of this Section.
(d) Accrued interest on each Loan shall be payable in arrears on each Interest Payment Date for such Loan and upon termination of the Commitments; that (i) interest accrued pursuant to paragraph (c) of this Section shall be payable on demand, (ii) in the event of any repayment or prepayment of any Loan (other than a prepayment of an ABR Revolving Loan prior to the end of the Availability Period), accrued interest on the principal amount repaid or prepaid shall be payable on the date of such repayment or prepayment and (iii) in the event of any conversion of any LIBOR Revolving Loan prior to the end of the current Interest Period therefor, accrued interest on such Loan shall be payable on the effective date of such conversion.
provided
(e) All interest hereunder shall be computed on the basis of a year of 360 days, except that interest computed by reference to the Alternate Base Rate at times when the Alternate Base Rate is based on the Prime Rate shall be computed on the basis of a year of 365 days (or 366 days in a leap year), and in each case shall be payable for the actual number of days elapsed (including the first day but excluding the last day).  The applicable Adjusted LIBO Rate or Alternate Base Rate shall be determined by the Administrative Agent, and such determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
SECTION 2.14.   If prior to the commencement of any Interest Period for a LIBOR Borrowing:
Alternate Rate of Interest.
(a) the Administrative Agent determines (which determination shall be conclusive absent manifest error) that adequate and reasonable means do not exist for ascertaining the Adjusted LIBO Rate for such Interest Period; or
(b) the Administrative Agent is advised by the Required Lenders that the Adjusted LIBO Rate for such Interest Period will not adequately and fairly reflect the cost to such Lenders of making or maintaining the Loans included in such Borrowing for such Interest Period;
then the Administrative Agent shall give notice thereof to the applicable Borrower and the Lenders by telephone or fax as promptly as practicable thereafter and, until the Administrative Agent notifies the applicable Borrower and the Lenders that the circumstances giving rise to such notice no longer exist, (i) any Interest Election Request that requests the conversion of any Revolving Borrowing to, or continuation of any Revolving Borrowing as, an affected LIBOR Borrowing shall be ineffective, (ii) any affected LIBOR Borrowing that is requested to be continued shall be continued as an ABR Borrowing and (ii) any Borrowing Request for an affected LIBOR Borrowing shall be deemed to be a request for an ABR Revolving Borrowing.
SECTION 2.15. . (a) If any Change in Law shall:
Increased Costs
(i) impose, modify or deem applicable any reserve, special deposit or similar requirement against assets of, deposits with or for the account of or credit extended by, any Lender (except any such reserve requirement reflected in the Adjusted LIBO Rate) or any Issuing Bank; or
(ii) impose on any Lender, any Issuing Bank or the London or European interbank market any other condition affecting this Agreement or LIBOR Loans or any Letter of Credit or participations therein;
and the result of any of the foregoing shall be to increase the cost to such Lender of making or maintaining any LIBOR Loan (or of maintaining its obligation to make any such Loan) or to increase the cost to such Lender or Issuing Bank of participating in, issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit or to reduce the amount of any sum received or receivable by such Lender or Issuing Bank hereunder (whether of principal, interest or otherwise), then the applicable Borrower will pay to such Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, for such additional costs incurred or reduction suffered.
(b) If any Lender or Issuing Bank determines in good faith that any Change in Law regarding capital requirements has or would have the effect of reducing the rate of return on such Lender's or Issuing Bank's capital or on the capital of such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company, if any, as a consequence of this Agreement or the Loans made by, or participations in Letters of Credit held by, such Lender, or the Letters of Credit issued by such Issuing Bank, to a level below that which such Lender or Issuing Bank or such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company would have achieved but for such Change in Law (taking into consideration such Lender's or Issuing Bank's policies and the policies of such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company with respect to capital adequacy), then from time to time the applicable Borrower will pay to such Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, such additional amount or amounts as will compensate such Lender or Issuing Bank or such Lender's or Issuing Bank's holding company for any such reduction suffered.
(c) If the cost to any Lender of making or maintaining any Loan or the cost to any Lender or any Issuing Bank of participating in, issuing or maintaining any Letter of Credit to a Borrowing Subsidiary is increased (or the amount of any sum
received or receivable by any Lender or any Issuing Bank (or its applicable lending office) is reduced) by an amount deemed in good faith by such Lender or such Issuing Bank, as the case may be, to be material, by reason of the fact that such Borrowing Subsidiary is incorporated in, has its principal place of  business in, or borrows from, a jurisdiction outside the United States, such Borrowing Subsidiary shall indemnify such Lender or such Issuing Bank from time to time for such increased cost or reduction.
(d) A certificate of a Lender or Issuing Bank setting forth the amount or amounts necessary to compensate such Lender or Issuing Bank or its holding company, as the case may be, as specified in paragraph (a), (b) or (c) of this Section and the manner in which such amount or amounts have been determined, shall be delivered to the Company and shall be conclusive absent manifest error.  The Company shall pay or cause the applicable Borrower to pay such Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
(e) Failure or delay on the part of any Lender or Issuing Bank to demand compensation pursuant to this Section shall not constitute a waiver of such Lender's or Issuing Bank's right to demand such compensation; that the applicable Borrower shall not be required to compensate a Lender or Issuing Bank pursuant to this Section for any increased costs or reductions incurred more than 180 days prior to the date that such Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, notifies the Company of the Change in Law or other circumstance giving rise to such increased costs or reductions and of such Lender's or Issuing Bank's intention to claim compensation therefor; that, if the Change in Law or other circumstance giving rise to such increased costs or reductions is retroactive, then the 180-day period referred to above shall be extended to include the period of retroactive effect thereof.
provided
provided further
(f) The foregoing provisions of this Section shall not apply to Taxes, which shall be governed solely by Section 2.17.
SECTION 2.16. In the event of (a) the payment of any principal of any LIBOR Loan other than on the last day of an Interest Period applicable thereto (including as a result of an Event of Default or an optional prepayment of Loans), (b) the conversion of any LIBOR Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto, (c) the failure to borrow, convert, continue or prepay any Loan on the date or in the amount specified in any notice delivered pursuant hereto or (d) the assignment of any LIBOR Loan other than on the last day of the Interest Period applicable thereto as a result of a request by the Company pursuant to Section 2.19, then, in any such event, the applicable Borrower shall compensate each Lender for the loss, cost and expense (but not for any anticipated profits) attributable to such event. In the case of a LIBOR Loan, such loss, cost or expense to any Lender shall be deemed to include an amount determined by such Lender to be the excess, if any, of
Break Funding Payments.
(i) the amount of interest that would have accrued on the principal amount of such Loan had such event not occurred, at the Adjusted LIBO Rate that would have been applicable to such Loan (and, for avoidance of doubt, without giving effect to any Applicable Rate that would otherwise have been applicable thereto), for the period from the date of such event to the last day of the then current Interest Period therefor (or, in the case of a failure
to borrow, convert or continue, for the period that would have been the Interest Period for such Loan), over (ii) the amount of interest that would accrue on such principal amount for such period at the interest rate that such Lender would bid were it to bid, at the commencement of such period, for deposits of a comparable amount and period from other banks in the London interbank market.  A certificate of any Lender setting forth any amount or amounts that such Lender is entitled to receive pursuant to this Section shall be delivered to the applicable Borrower and shall be conclusive absent manifest error.  The applicable Borrower shall pay such Lender the amount shown as due on any such certificate within 10 days after receipt thereof.
SECTION 2.17. (a) Any and all payments by or on account of any obligation of any Credit Party hereunder shall be made free and clear of and without deduction for any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes; that if any Borrower shall be required to deduct any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes from such payments, then (i) the sum payable shall be increased as necessary so that after making all required deductions (including deductions applicable to additional sums payable under this Section) the Administrative Agent, the applicable Lender or the applicable Issuing Bank (as the case may be) receives an amount equal to the sum it would have received had no such deductions been made, (ii) such Borrower shall make such deductions and (iii) such Borrower shall pay the full amount deducted to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
Taxes.
provided
(b) In addition, the Borrowers shall pay any Other Taxes to the relevant Governmental Authority in accordance with applicable law.
(c) The relevant Borrower shall indemnify the Administrative Agent, each Lender and each Issuing Bank, within 10 days after written demand therefor, for the full amount of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes paid by the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such Issuing Bank, as the case may be, on or with respect to any payment by or on account of any obligation of such Borrower hereunder (including Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes imposed or asserted on or attributable to amounts payable under this Section) and any penalties, interest and reasonable expenses arising therefrom or with respect thereto, whether or not such Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes were correctly or legally imposed or asserted by the relevant Governmental Authority.  A certificate as to the amount of such payment or liability delivered to the Company by a Lender or an Issuing Bank, or by the Administrative Agent on its own behalf or on behalf of a Lender or an Issuing Bank, shall be conclusive absent manifest error.
(d) As soon as practicable after any payment of Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes by any Borrower to a Governmental Authority, such Borrower shall deliver to the Administrative Agent the original or a certified copy of a receipt issued by such Governmental Authority evidencing such payment, a copy of the return reporting such payment or other evidence of such payment reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent.
(e) Any Lender that is entitled to an exemption from or reduction of withholding tax under the law of the jurisdiction in which any Borrower is resident or
located, or any treaty to which such jurisdiction is a party, with respect to payments under this Agreement shall deliver to the Company (with a copy to the Administrative Agent), at the time or times prescribed by applicable law, such properly completed and executed documentation prescribed by applicable law or reasonably requested by the Company as will permit such payments to be made without withholding or at a reduced rate; that such Lender has received written notice from the Company advising it of the availability of such exemption or reduction and containing all applicable documentation (together, if requested by such Lender, with a certified English translation thereof). Each Lender shall promptly notify the Company at any time it determines that it is no longer in a position to provide any such previously delivered documentation to the Company.
provided
(f) If the Administrative Agent or a Lender determines, in its sole discretion, that it has received a refund of any Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes as to which it has been indemnified by a Borrower or with respect to which a Borrower has paid additional amounts pursuant to this Section, it shall pay over such refund to such Borrower (but only to the extent of indemnity payments made, or additional amounts paid, by such Borrower under this Section with respect to the Indemnified Taxes or Other Taxes giving rise to such refund), net of all out-of-pocket expenses of the Administrative Agent or such Lender and without interest (other than any interest paid by the relevant Governmental Authority with respect to such refund); , that such Borrower, upon the request of the Administrative Agent or such Lender, agrees to repay the amount paid over to such Borrower (plus any penalties, interest or other charges imposed by the relevant Governmental Authority) to the Administrative Agent or such Lender in the event the Administrative Agent or such Lender is required to repay such refund to such Governmental Authority. This Section shall not be construed to require the Administrative Agent or any Lender to make available its tax returns (or any other information relating to its taxes which it deems confidential) to any Borrower or any other Person.
provided
SECTION 2.18. (a) Each Borrower shall make each payment required to be made by it hereunder (whether of principal, interest, fees or reimbursement of LC Disbursements or otherwise) prior to the time required hereunder for such payment or, if no such time is expressly required, prior to 1:00 p.m., New York City time, on the date when due, in immediately available funds, without set-off or counterclaim.  Any amounts received after such time on any date may, in the discretion of the Administrative Agent, be deemed to have been received on the next succeeding Business Day for purposes of calculating interest thereon. All such payments shall be made to the Administrative Agent for the account of the applicable Lenders to such account as the Administrative Agent shall from time to time specify in one or more notices delivered to the Company, except that payments to be made directly to an Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender as provided herein shall be so directly made and payments pursuant to Sections 2.15, 2.16, 2.17 and 10.03 shall be made directly to the Persons entitled thereto.  The Administrative Agent shall distribute any such payments received by it for the account of any other Person to the appropriate recipient promptly following receipt thereof.  If any payment hereunder shall be due on a day that is not a Business Day, the date for payment shall be extended to the next succeeding Business Day and, in the case of any payment accruing
Payments Generally; Pro Rata Treatment; Sharing of  Set-offs.
interest, interest thereon shall be payable for the period of such extension.  All payments hereunder and under each other Loan Document shall be made in US Dollars.  Any payment required to be made by the Administrative Agent hereunder shall be deemed to have been made by the time required if the Administrative Agent shall, at or before such time, have taken the necessary steps to make such payment in accordance with the regulations or operating procedures of the clearing or settlement system used by the Administrative Agent to make such payment.
(b) If at any time insufficient funds are received by and available to the Administrative Agent to pay fully all amounts of principal, unreimbursed LC Disbursements, interest and fees then due hereunder, such funds shall be applied (i) first, towards payment of interest and fees then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of interest and fees then due to such parties, and (ii) second, towards payment of principal and unreimbursed LC Disbursements then due hereunder, ratably among the parties entitled thereto in accordance with the amounts of principal and unreimbursed LC Disbursements then due to such parties.
(c) If any Lender shall, by exercising any right of set-off or counterclaim or otherwise, obtain payment in respect of any principal of or interest on any of its Revolving Loans or participations in LC Disbursements or Swingline Loans resulting in such Lender receiving payment of a greater proportion of the aggregate amount of its Revolving Loans and participations in LC Disbursements or Swingline Loans and accrued interest thereon than the proportion received by any other Lender, then the Lender receiving such greater proportion shall purchase (for cash at face value) participations in the Revolving Loans, LC Disbursements or Swingline Loans to the extent necessary so that the benefit of all such payments shall be shared by the Lenders ratably in accordance with the aggregate amount of principal of and accrued interest on their respective Revolving Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans; that (i) if any such participations are purchased and all or any portion of the payment giving rise thereto is recovered, such participations shall be rescinded and the purchase price restored to the extent of such recovery, without interest, and (ii) the provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to apply to any payment made by any Borrower pursuant to and in accordance with the express terms of this Agreement or any payment obtained by a Lender as consideration for the assignment of or sale of a participation in any of its Loans or participations in LC Disbursements or Swingline Loans to any assignee or participant, other than to the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate thereof (as to which the provisions of this paragraph shall apply).  Each Credit Party consents to the foregoing and agrees, to the extent it may effectively do so under applicable law, that any Lender acquiring a participation pursuant to the foregoing arrangements may exercise against such Credit Party rights of set-off and counterclaim with respect to such participation as fully as if such Lender were a direct creditor of such Credit Party in the amount of such participation.
provided
(d) Unless the Administrative Agent shall have received notice from a Borrower prior to the date on which any payment is due to the Administrative Agent for the account of any Lenders or Issuing Bank hereunder that the such Borrower will not
make such payment, the Administrative Agent may assume that such Borrower has made such payment on such date in accordance herewith and may, in reliance upon such assumption, distribute to the applicable Lenders or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, the amount due.  In such event, if such Borrower has not in fact made such payment, then each applicable Lender or Issuing Bank, as the case may be, severally agrees to repay to the Administrative Agent forthwith on demand the amount so distributed to such Lender or Issuing Bank with interest thereon, for each day from and including the date such amount is distributed to it to but excluding the date of payment to the Administrative Agent, at a rate determined by the Administrative Agent in accordance with banking industry rules on interbank compensation.
(e) If any Lender shall fail to make any payment required to be made by it pursuant to Section 2.04(c), 2.05(e), 2.06(b) or 2.18(d), then the Administrative Agent may, in its discretion (notwithstanding any contrary provision hereof), apply any amounts thereafter received by the Administrative Agent for the account of such Lender to satisfy such Lender's obligations under such Sections until all such unsatisfied obligations are fully paid.
SECTION 2.19. (a) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.15, or if any Credit Party is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.17, then such Lender shall use reasonable efforts to designate a different lending office for funding or booking its Loans hereunder or to assign its rights and obligations hereunder to another of its offices, branches or affiliates, if, in the judgment of such Lender, such designation or assignment (i) would eliminate or reduce amounts payable pursuant to Section 2.15 or 2.17, as the case may be, in the future and (ii) would not subject such Lender to any unreimbursed cost or expense and would not otherwise be disadvantageous to such Lender.  The Company hereby agrees to pay all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by any Lender in connection with any such designation or assignment.
Mitigation Obligations; Replacement of Lenders.
(b) If any Lender requests compensation under Section 2.15, or if any Credit Party is required to pay any additional amount to any Lender or any Governmental Authority for the account of any Lender pursuant to Section 2.17 or if any Lender is a Declining Lender, then the Company may, at its sole expense and effort, upon notice to such Lender and the Administrative Agent, require such Lender to assign and delegate, without recourse (in accordance with and subject to the restrictions contained in Section 10.04), all its interests, rights and obligations under this Agreement to an assignee that shall assume such obligations (which assignee may be another Lender, if a Lender accepts such assignment); that (i) the Company shall have received the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, each Issuing Bank and the Swingline Lender (which consent shall not unreasonably be withheld), (ii) such Lender shall have received payment of an amount equal to the outstanding principal of its Loans and participations in LC Disbursements and Swingline Loans, accrued interest thereon, accrued fees and all other amounts payable to it hereunder, from the assignee (to the extent of such outstanding principal and accrued interest and fees) or the Company (in the case of all other amounts), (iii) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a claim
provided
for compensation under Section 2.15 or payments required to be made pursuant to Section 2.17, such assignment will result in a reduction in such compensation or payments and (iv) in the case of any such assignment resulting from a Lender being a Declining Lender, the assignee shall have agreed to the applicable Maturity Date Extension Request.  A Lender shall not be required to make any such assignment and delegation if, prior thereto, as a result of a waiver by such Lender or otherwise, the circumstances entitling the Company to require such assignment and delegation cease to apply.
SECTION 2.20. The Company may at any time and from time to time designate any Subsidiary as a Borrowing Subsidiary by delivery to the Administrative Agent of a Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement executed by such Subsidiary and the Company, and upon such delivery such Subsidiary shall for all purposes of this Agreement be a Borrowing Subsidiary and a party to this Agreement until the Company shall have executed and delivered to the Administrative Agent a Borrowing Subsidiary Termination with respect to such Subsidiary, whereupon such Subsidiary shall cease to be a Borrowing Subsidiary and a party to this Agreement.  Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, no Borrowing Subsidiary Termination will become effective as to any Borrowing Subsidiary at a time when any principal of or interest on any Loan to or any Letter of Credit issued for the account of such Borrowing Subsidiary shall be outstanding hereunder; that such Borrowing Subsidiary Termination shall be effective to terminate the right of such Borrowing Subsidiary to make further Borrowings under this Agreement.  As soon as practicable upon receipt of a Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement, the Administrative Agent shall make a copy thereof available to each Lender.
Designation of Borrowing Subsidiaries.
provided
The Company and each other Borrower represents and warrants to the Lenders and the Issuing Banks that:
SECTION 3.01.   Each of the Company and its Subsidiaries is duly organized, validly existing and in good standing (to the extent such concept is recognized in the jurisdiction of organization thereof) under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization, has all requisite power and authority to carry on its business as now conducted and, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, would not be materially likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect, is qualified to do business in, and is in good standing in, every jurisdiction where such qualification is required.
Organization; Powers.
SECTION 3.02. The Transactions are within each Credit Party's corporate powers and have been duly authorized by all necessary corporate and, if required, stockholder action.  This Agreement has been duly executed and delivered by each Credit Party and constitutes a legal, valid and binding
Authorization; Enforceability.
obligation of each Credit Party, enforceable in accordance with its terms, subject to applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or other laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject to general principles of equity, regardless of whether considered in a proceeding in equity or at law.
SECTION 3.03. The Transactions (a) do not require any consent or approval of, registration or filing with, or any other action by, any Governmental Authority, except such as have been obtained or made and are in full force and effect, (b) will not violate the charter, by-laws or other organizational documents of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, (c) will not violate any applicable law, rule or regulation or any order of any Governmental Authority, (d) will not violate or result in a default under any indenture, agreement or other instrument binding upon the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or its assets, or give rise to a right thereunder to require any payment to be made by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, and (e) will not result in the creation or imposition of any Lien on any asset of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries pursuant to the terms of any indenture, agreement or other instrument binding on the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, except in each case (other than in the case of clause (b)), where the absence of such consent or approval, or the failure to make such registration or filing, or take such other action, or such violation, default, payment or Lien would not be materially likely, individually or in the aggregate, to have a Material Adverse Effect.
Governmental Approvals; No Conflicts.
SECTION 3.04.
Financial Condition; No Material Adverse Change.
(a) The Company has heretofore furnished to the Lenders (i) its consolidated balance sheets and statements of operations, stockholders equity and cash flows as of the end of and for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2006, reported on by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, and (ii) its consolidated balance sheet and statement of operations and cash flows as of the end of and for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2007, certified by a Financial Officer of the Company (which certification requirement shall be deemed satisfied by the execution by a Financial Officer of the certification required to be filed by the SEC pursuant to Item 601 of Regulation S-K). Such financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position and results of operations and cash flows of the Company and its consolidated Subsidiaries as of such dates and for such periods in accordance with GAAP, subject, in the case of such quarterly financial statements, to normal year-end adjustments and the absence of footnotes.
(b) Since October 31, 2006, through the date of this Agreement, there has been no material adverse change in the business, assets, operations or financial condition of the Company and its Subsidiaries, taken as a whole.
SECTION 3.05. (a) There are no actions, suits or proceedings by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority pending against or, to the knowledge of the Company, threatened against or affecting the Company or any of its Subsidiaries (i) that would be materially likely, individually or in the aggregate, to result in a Material Adverse Effect or (ii) that involve this Agreement or the Transactions.
Litigation and Environmental Matters.
(b) Except with respect to any matters that, individually or in the aggregate, would not be materially likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect, neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries (i) has failed to comply with any Environmental Law or to obtain, maintain or comply with any permit, license or other approval required under any Environmental Law, (ii) has become subject to any Environmental Liability, (iii) has received notice of any claim with respect to any Environmental Liability or (iv) knows of any basis for any Environmental Liability.
SECTION 3.06. Each of the Company and its Subsidiaries is in compliance with all laws, rules, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority applicable to it or its property and all indentures, agreements and other instruments binding upon it or its property, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, has not resulted and would not be materially likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect.  No Default has occurred and is continuing.
Compliance with Laws and Agreements.
SECTION 3.07.   Neither the Company nor any of its Subsidiaries is an "investment company" as defined in, or subject to regulation under, the Investment Company Act of 1940.
Investment Company Status.
SECTION 3.08. (a) Each of the Company and its Subsidiaries has good title to, or valid leasehold interests in, all its real and personal property material to its business, except where the failure to have such title or such leasehold interests, individually or in the aggregate, has not resulted in and would not be materially likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Properties.
(b) Each of the Company and its Subsidiaries owns, or is licensed to use, all trademarks, tradenames, copyrights, patents and other intellectual property material to its business, and the use thereof by the Company and its Subsidiaries does not infringe upon the rights of any other Person, except for any such infringements that, individually or in the aggregate, would not be materially likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
SECTION 3.09. No part of the proceeds of any Loan or any Letter of Credit will be used, whether directly or indirectly, and whether immediately, incidentally or ultimately, for any purpose that entails a violation of the provisions of the Regulations of the Board, including Regulation U or X.  Not more than 25% of the value of the assets of the Company individually, or of the Company and the Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis, subject to any provision of this Agreement under which the sale, pledge or disposition of assets is restricted (within the meaning of Regulation U), will consist of margin stock (as defined in Regulation U).
Federal Reserve Regulations.
SECTION 3.10.   The Company and its Subsidiaries have timely filed or caused to be filed all Tax returns and reports required to have been filed and have paid or caused to be paid all Taxes required to have been paid by them pursuant to said Tax returns or pursuant to any assessment received by them, except (a) any Taxes that are being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings and for which the Company or such Subsidiary, as applicable, has set aside on its books adequate reserves (to the extent
Taxes.
required by GAAP) or (b) to the extent that the failure to do so would not, individually or in the aggregate, be materially likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
SECTION 3.11.   No ERISA Event has occurred or is reasonably expected to occur that, when taken together with all other such ERISA Events for which liability is reasonably expected to occur, would be materially likely to be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
ERISA.
SECTION 3.12.   Neither the Information Memorandum nor any of the other reports, financial statements, certificates or other information (taken as a whole) furnished by or on behalf of the Borrowers to the Administrative Agent or any Lender in connection with the negotiation of this Agreement or delivered hereunder (as modified or supplemented by other information so furnished) contains any material misstatement of fact or omits to state any material fact necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading; that, with respect to projected financial information, the Borrowers represent only that such information was prepared in good faith based upon assumptions believed by them to be reasonable at the time made and at the time so furnished.
Disclosure.
provided
SECTION 4.01.   The obligations of the Lenders to make Loans and of the Issuing Banks to issue Letters of Credit hereunder shall not become effective until the date on which each of the following conditions is satisfied (or waived in accordance with Section 10.02):
Effective Date.
(a) The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received from each party hereto either (i) a counterpart of this Agreement signed on behalf of such party or (ii) written evidence satisfactory to the Administrative Agent (which may include facsimile or other electronic image scan transmission of a signed signature page of this Agreement) that such party has signed a counterpart of this Agreement.
(b) The Administrative Agent shall have received a favorable written opinion (addressed to the Administrative Agent and the Lenders and dated the Effective Date) of (i) D. Craig Nordlund, Senior Vice President and General Counsel of the Company and (ii) Fenwick & West LLP, counsel for the Company, substantially in the form of Exhibit B and covering such other matters relating to the Company, this Agreement or the Transactions as the Required Lenders shall reasonably request.
(c) The Administrative Agent shall have received such documents and certificates as the Administrative Agent or its counsel may reasonably request relating to the organization, existence and good standing of the Company, the authorization of the Transactions and any other legal matters relating to the Company, this Agreement or the Transactions, all in form and substance satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
 
(d) The Administrative Agent shall have received a certificate, dated the Effective Date and signed by the President, a Vice President or a Financial Officer of the Company, confirming compliance with the conditions set forth in paragraphs (a) and (b) of Section 4.02.
(e) The Administrative Agent shall have received all fees and other amounts due and payable on or prior to the Effective Date, including, to the extent invoiced, reimbursement or payment of all out-of-pocket expenses required to be reimbursed or paid by the Company hereunder.
(f) The Administrative Agent and Lenders shall have received, at least five Business Days prior to the Effective Date, all documentation and other information relating to the Company requested by them for purposes of ensuring compliance with applicable "know your customer" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including the USA Patriot Act.
The Administrative Agent shall notify the Company and the Lenders of the Effective Date, and such notice shall be conclusive and binding.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, this Agreement shall not become effective unless each of the foregoing conditions is satisfied (or waived pursuant to Section 10.02) on or prior to May 11, 2007.
SECTION 4.02. The obligation of each Lender to make a Loan on the occasion of any Borrowing, and of each Issuing Bank to issue, amend, renew or extend any Letter of Credit, is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions:
Each Credit Event.
(a) The representations and warranties of the Borrowers set forth in this Agreement (other than, with respect to any Borrowing occurring after the Effective Date, the representations set forth in Sections 3.04(b) and 3.05(a)) shall be true and correct on and as of the date of such Borrowing or the date of issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of such Letter of Credit, as applicable.
(b) At the time of and immediately after giving effect to such Borrowing or the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of such Letter of Credit, as applicable, no Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
Each Borrowing and each issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of a Letter of Credit shall be deemed to constitute a representation and warranty by the applicable Borrower on the date thereof as to the matters specified in paragraphs (a) and (b) of this Section.
SECTION 4.03. The obligation of the Lenders to make Loans to, and the obligations of the Issuing Banks to issue Letters of Credit for the account of, any Borrowing Subsidiary is subject to the satisfaction of the following conditions:
Initial Credit Event for each Borrowing Subsidiary.
(a) The Administrative Agent (or its counsel) shall have received the Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement with respect to such Borrowing Subsidiary, duly executed by all parties thereto.
(b) The Administrative Agent shall have received such documents (including such legal opinions) as the Administrative Agent or its counsel may reasonably request relating to the formation, existence and good standing of such Borrowing Subsidiary, the authorization and legality of the Transactions insofar as they relate to such Borrowing Subsidiary and any other legal matters relating to such Borrowing Subsidiary, its Borrowing Subsidiary Agreement or such Transactions, all in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Administrative Agent and its counsel.
(c) The Administrative Agent and Lenders shall have received, at least five Business Days prior to the making of such Loan or issuance of such Letters of Credit, all documentation and other information relating to such Borrowing Subsidiary requested by them for purposes of ensuring compliance with applicable "know your customer" and anti-money laundering rules and regulations, including the USA. Patriot Act.
Until the Commitments have expired or been terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder have been paid in full, all LC Disbursements have been reimbursed and all Letters of Credit have expired or been terminated, the Company and each other Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
SECTION 5.01. The Company will furnish to the Administrative Agent and each Lender:
Financial Statements and Other Information.
(a) within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year of the Company (or, if earlier, the date on which the Company files the same with the SEC), a copy of its audited consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows as of the end of and for such year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the previous fiscal year, accompanied by a report of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP or other independent public accountants of recognized national standing (without a "going concern" or like qualification or exception and without any qualification or exception as to the scope of the related audit) to the effect that such consolidated financial statements present fairly in all material respects the financial position and results of operations and cash flows of the Company and the consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied;
(b) within 60 days after the end of each of the first three fiscal quarters of each fiscal year of the Company (or, if earlier, the date on which the Company files the same with the SEC), a copy of its consolidated balance sheet and related statements of operations as of the end of and for such fiscal quarter and  the then elapsed portion of the fiscal year and its related statement of cash flows for the then elapsed portion of the fiscal year, setting forth in each case in comparative form the figures for the corresponding period or periods of (or, in the case of the balance sheet, as of the end of) the previous fiscal year, all certified by one of its Financial Officers as presenting fairly in all material respects the financial position and results of operations and cash flows of the Company and the consolidated Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in accordance with GAAP consistently applied, subject to normal year-end audit adjustments and the absence of footnotes (which certification requirement shall be deemed satisfied by the execution by a Financial Officer of the certification required to be filed with the SEC pursuant to Item 601 of Regulation S-K);
(c) concurrently with any delivery of financial statements under clause
(a) or (b) above, a certificate signed by a Financial Officer of the Company
(i) certifying as to whether a Default has occurred and is continuing and, if a Default has occurred and is continuing, specifying the details thereof and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto and (ii) setting forth reasonably detailed calculations demonstrating compliance with Sections 6.07 and 6.08;
(d) promptly after the same become publicly available, copies of all periodic and other reports, proxy statements and other materials filed by the Company or any Subsidiary with the SEC, or distributed by the Company to its stockholders generally, as the case may be; and
(e) promptly following any request therefor, such other information regarding the operations, business affairs and financial condition of the Company, any other Borrower or any Subsidiary, or compliance with the terms of this Agreement, as the Administrative Agent or any Lender (acting through the Administrative Agent) may reasonably request.
Information required to be delivered pursuant to this Section shall be deemed to have been delivered if such information, or one or more annual or quarterly reports containing such information, shall have been posted by the Administrative Agent on an IntraLinks or similar site to which the Lenders have been granted access or shall be available on the website of the SEC at http://www.sec.gov or the website of the Company at http://www.agilent.com and a confirming notice of such posting or availability shall have been delivered to the Administrative Agent (it being agreed that such notice may be delivered by electronic communication to an e-mail address provided by the Administrative Agent to the Company for such purpose, as such e-mail address may be modified by the Administrative Agent from time to time).  Information required to be delivered pursuant to this Section may also be delivered by electronic communications pursuant to procedures approved by the Administrative Agent.
SECTION 5.02.   The Company will furnish to the Administrative Agent prompt written notice of the following:
Notices of Material Events.
(a) the occurrence of any Default;
(b) the filing or commencement of any action, suit or proceeding by or before any arbitrator or Governmental Authority against the Company or any Subsidiary that would be materially likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect;
(c) the occurrence of any ERISA Event that, alone or together with any other ERISA Events that have occurred, would be materially likely to be expected to result in liability of the Company and the Subsidiaries in an aggregate amount exceeding $100,000,000; and
(d) any other development that has resulted, or in the judgment of the Company would be materially likely to result, in a Material Adverse Effect.
Each notice delivered under this Section shall be accompanied by a statement of a Financial Officer setting forth the details of the event or development requiring such notice (or referring to a description of such event or development in the publicly available SEC filings of the Company) and any action taken or proposed to be taken with respect thereto.
SECTION 5.03.   The Company will, and will cause each Subsidiary to, do or cause to be done all things necessary to preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect its legal existence, except as otherwise permitted by Section 6.04; that this Section shall not require the preservation of the legal existence of any Subsidiary that is not a Borrower if the Company shall determine that the preservation of such existence is no longer necessary or desirable in the conduct of the business of the Company and the Subsidiaries taken as a whole.
Existence.
provided
SECTION 5.04. Except as otherwise permitted by Section 6.04 or where the failure to do so would be materially likely to result in a Material Adverse Effect, the Company will, and will cause each Subsidiary to, at all times (a) do or cause to be done all things reasonably necessary to preserve, renew and keep in full force and effect the rights, licenses, permits, franchises, patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade names material to the conduct of its business and (b) maintain, preserve and protect all property material to the conduct of such business.
Businesses and Properties.
SECTION 5.05.   The Company will, and will cause each of the Subsidiaries to, pay its Tax liabilities before the same shall become delinquent or in default, except where (a) the validity or amount thereof is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, (b) the Company or the applicable Subsidiary has set aside on its books adequate reserves with respect thereto to the extent required by GAAP and (c) the failure to make payment pending such contest would not be materially likely to be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Payment of Taxes.
SECTION 5.06.   The Company will, and will cause its Subsidiaries, as appropriate, to, maintain, with financially sound and reputable insurance companies, insurance in such amounts and against such risks as are customarily maintained by companies engaged in the same or similar businesses operating in the same or similar locations; provided, that the Company and its Subsidiaries may self-insure up to the same extent as other companies of similar size engaged in comparable businesses.
Insurance.
SECTION 5.07. The Company will, and will cause each of the Subsidiaries to, keep proper books of record and account in which full, true and correct entries are made of all dealings and transactions in relation to its business and activities, to the extent required by GAAP.  The Company will, and will cause each of the Subsidiaries to, permit any representatives designated by the Administrative Agent or any Lender, at reasonable times and upon reasonable prior notice (given through the Administrative Agent), to visit and inspect its properties, to examine and make extracts from its books and records and to discuss its affairs, finances and condition with its officers and independent accountants (it being agreed that, the foregoing, with respect to any Subsidiary, will be coordinated through the Company).
Books and Records; Inspection Rights.
SECTION 5.08.   The Company will, and will cause each of the Subsidiaries to, comply with all laws, rules, regulations and orders of any Governmental Authority, including Environmental Laws and ERISA, applicable to it or its property, except where the failure to do so, individually or in the aggregate, could not reasonably be expected to result in a Material Adverse Effect.
Compliance with Laws.
SECTION 5.09. The Borrowers will use the proceeds of the Loans and the Letters of Credit only for general corporate purposes of the Company and the Subsidiaries, including to provide liquidity in connection with any commercial paper program and to finance repurchases of the outstanding common stock of the Company and acquisitions.  The Borrowers will not permit the proceeds of any Loan or any Letter of Credit to be used, whether directly or indirectly, and whether immediately, incidentally or ultimately, for any purpose that entails a violation of the provisions of the regulations of the Board, including Regulation U or X.  The Borrowers will not permit more than 25% of the value of the assets of the Company and the Subsidiaries that are subject to any provision of this Agreement under which the sale, pledge or disposition of assets is restricted (within the meaning of Regulation U) to consist of margin stock (as defined in Regulation U).
Use of Proceeds.
SECTION 5.10. The Company will cause the aggregate amount of the World Trade Restricted Cash at all times to equal or exceed the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the World Trade Indebtedness.
World Trade Restricted Cash.
Until the Commitments have expired or been terminated and the principal of and interest on each Loan and all fees payable hereunder have been paid in full, all LC Disbursements have been reimbursed and all Letters of Credit have expired or been terminated, the Company and each other Borrower covenants and agrees with the Lenders that:
SECTION 6.01.   The Company will not permit any Subsidiary to create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Indebtedness or permit to exist any preferred stock or other preferred equity interests, except:
Subsidiary Indebtedness.
(a) Indebtedness under this Agreement;
(b) Indebtedness, preferred stock or the preferred equity interests existing on the date hereof and set forth on Schedule 6.01 and extensions, renewals or replacements of any such Indebtedness that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof;
(c) World Trade Indebtedness, in an amount at any time outstanding not in excess of the lesser of (i) the World Trade Indebtedness outstanding on the date hereof and (ii) the World Trade Restricted Cash at such time, and the preferred stock of Agilent Technologies (Cayco) Limited relating thereto;
(d) Indebtedness, preferred stock or preferred equity interests of Subsidiaries existing at the time they become Subsidiaries and not incurred in contemplation of their becoming Subsidiaries and extensions, renewals and replacements of any such Indebtedness that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof;
(e) Indebtedness of any Subsidiary incurred to finance the acquisition, construction or improvement by such Subsidiary of any fixed or capital assets, including Capital Lease Obligations, that such Indebtedness is incurred prior to or within 180 days after such acquisition or the completion of such construction or improvement, and extensions, renewals and replacements of any such Indebtedness that do not increase the outstanding principal amount thereof;
provided
(f) Indebtedness of any Subsidiary to the Company or any other Subsidiary; or any preferred stock or other preferred equity interests of any Subsidiary held by the Company or any other Subsidiary; that no such Indebtedness or preferred equity interests shall be assigned to, or subjected to any Lien in favor of, a Person other than the Company or a Subsidiary;
provided
(g) Indebtedness of any Subsidiary as an account party in respect of letters of credit or letters of guarantee, in each case backing obligations that do not constitute Indebtedness of any Subsidiary;
(h) Indebtedness consisting of industrial development, pollution control or other revenue bonds or similar instruments issued or guaranteed by any Governmental Authority; and
(i) other Indebtedness and preferred stock and other preferred equity interests not expressly permitted by clauses (a) through (h) above; that the sum, without duplication, of (i) the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Indebtedness, and the aggregate liquidation preference value of the outstanding preferred stock and other preferred equity interests, permitted by this clause (i), (ii) the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Indebtedness secured by Liens (including Liens deemed to exist in connection with Securitization Transactions) permitted by Section 6.02(j) and (iii) the Attributable Debt in respect of Sale-Leaseback Transactions permitted by Section 6.03(b) does not at any time exceed the greater of (A) $300,000,000 and (B) 10% of Consolidated Stockholders' Equity.
provided
SECTION 6.02.   The Company will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, create, incur, assume or permit to exist any Lien on any property or asset now owned or hereafter acquired by it, except:
Liens.
(a) Permitted Liens;
(b) Liens created under this Agreement;
(c) Liens existing on the date hereof and set forth on Schedule 6.02 and any extensions, renewals or replacements thereof; that (i) no such Lien shall apply to any other property or assets of the Company or any Subsidiary, other than improvements and accessions to the subject assets and proceeds thereof, and (ii) no such Lien shall secure obligations other than those that it secured on the date hereof and permitted extensions, renewals and replacements thereof;
provided
(d) Liens on assets existing at the time such assets are acquired by the Company or a Subsidiary and any replacements thereof; that (i) no such Lien is created in contemplation of or in connection with any such acquisition,
provided
(ii) no such Lien shall apply to any other property or assets of the Company or any Subsidiary, other than improvements and accessions to the subject assets and proceeds thereof, and (iii) no such Lien shall secure obligations other than those that it secures on the date of such acquisition and permitted extensions, renewals and replacements thereof;
(e) Liens on assets of any Person at the time such Person becomes a Subsidiary and any extensions, renewals and replacements thereof; that (i) no such Lien is created in contemplation of or in connection with such Person becoming a Subsidiary, (ii) no such Lien shall apply to any other property or assets of the Company or any Subsidiary, other than improvements and accessions to the subject assets and proceeds thereof, and (iii) no such Lien shall secure
provided
obligations other than those that it secures on the date such Person becomes a Subsidiary and permitted extensions, renewals and replacements thereof;
(f) Liens securing Indebtedness incurred to finance the acquisition, construction or improvement of any fixed or capital assets (including Liens deemed to exist in connection with Capital Lease Obligations) acquired after the date hereof to the extent such Liens attach only to such fixed or capital assets and improvements and accessions thereto and are created at the time of or within 180 days after the acquisition, or the completion of such construction or improvement, of such fixed or capital assets, and any Liens securing extensions, refinancings or replacements of such Indebtedness; that no such Lien shall apply to any other property or assets of the Company or any Subsidiary, other than improvements and accessions to the subject fixed or capital assets and proceeds thereof;
provided
(g) customary Liens arising from or created in connection with the issuance of trade letters of credit for the account of the Company or any Subsidiary supporting obligations not constituting Indebtedness; that such Liens encumber only the raw materials, inventory, machinery or equipment in connection with the purchase of which such letters of credit are issued;
provided
(h) Liens on assets of Subsidiaries securing obligations owed to the Company or one or more other Subsidiaries;
(i) Liens on cash collateral or government securities to secure obligations under Hedging Agreements; that the aggregate value of any collateral so pledged does not exceed $30,000,000 in the aggregate at any time; and
provided
(j) other Liens securing or deemed to exist in connection with Indebtedness and sales of accounts receivable and interests therein pursuant to Securitization Transactions; provided that the sum, without duplication, of (i) the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Indebtedness secured by Liens or deemed to exist in connection with Securitization Transactions permitted by this clause (j), (ii) the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Indebtedness, and the aggregate liquidation preference value of the outstanding preferred stock and other preferred equity interests, permitted by Section 6.01(i) and (iii) the Attributable Debt in respect of Sale-Leaseback Transactions permitted by Section 6.03(b) does not at any time exceed the greater of (A) $300,000,000 and (B) 10% of Consolidated Stockholders' Equity.
SECTION 6.03.   The Company will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, enter into or be a party to any Sale-Leaseback Transaction, except:
Sale and Leaseback Transactions.
(a) Sale-Leaseback Transactions existing on the date hereof and set forth on Schedule 6.03 and extensions, renewals or replacements of any such Sale-Leaseback Transaction; that the property and assets subject to any such
provided
extended, renewed or replaced Sale-Leaseback Transaction shall include only the property or assets subject thereto on the date hereof, improvements and accessions to such property and assets and proceeds thereof; and
(b) other Sale-Leaseback Transactions; that the sum, without duplication, of (i) the aggregate Attributable Debt in respect of Sale-Leaseback Transactions permitted by this clause (b), (ii) the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Indebtedness, and the aggregate liquidation preference value of the outstanding preferred stock and other preferred equity interests, permitted by Section 6.01(i) and (iii) the aggregate principal amount of the outstanding Indebtedness secured by Liens (including Liens deemed to exist in connection with Securitization Transactions) permitted by Section 6.02(j) does not at any time exceed the greater of (A) $300,000,000 and (B) 10% of Consolidated Stockholders' Equity.
provided
SECTION 6.04. (a) The Company will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, merge into or consolidate with any other Person, or permit any other Person to merge into or consolidate with it, or sell, transfer, lease or otherwise dispose of (in one transaction or in a series of transactions) assets representing all or substantially all the consolidated assets of the Company and the Subsidiaries (whether now owned or hereafter acquired), or liquidate or dissolve, except that if at the time thereof and immediately after giving effect thereto (as if the relevant transaction and any related incurrence or repayment of Indebtedness had occurred at the beginning of the most recent period of four fiscal quarters for which financial statements have been delivered pursuant to Section 5.01(a) or (b) or, prior to the delivery of any such financial statements, at January 31, 2007) no Default shall have occurred and be continuing (i) any Person may merge into the Company in a transaction in which the Company is the surviving corporation, (ii) any Person may merge with any Subsidiary in a transaction in which the surviving entity is a Subsidiary and (iii) any Subsidiary (other than a Borrowing Subsidiary) may liquidate or dissolve or, so long as such transaction does not constitute a transfer or other disposition of all or substantially all the consolidated assets of the Company and the Subsidiaries, merge with or into any other Person.
Fundamental Changes.
pro forma
(b) The Company will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, engage to any extent material to the Company and the Subsidiaries on a consolidated basis in any business other than businesses of the type conducted by the Company and the Subsidiaries on the date of this Agreement and businesses reasonably related or complementary thereto.
(c) The Company will not permit any other Borrower, while it remains a Borrower, to cease to be a Subsidiary.
SECTION 6.05.   The Company will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, sell, lease or otherwise transfer any property or assets to, or purchase, lease or otherwise acquire any property or assets from, or otherwise engage in any other transactions with, any of its Affiliates, except (a) in the ordinary
Transactions with Affiliates.
course of business at prices and on terms and conditions not less favorable to the Company or such Subsidiary than could be obtained on an arm's-length basis from unrelated third parties; (b) transactions between or among the Company and the Subsidiaries (or between or among two or more Subsidiaries) not involving any other Affiliate; and (c) compensation arrangements for directors or executive officers approved by the Board of Directors of the Company or the compensation committee of such Board of Directors; that nothing contained in this Section shall prevent the Company from paying dividends or making other cash distributions to its stockholders.
provided
SECTION 6.06.   The Company will not, and will not permit any Subsidiary to, enter into any agreement that (a) prohibits the Company or any Subsidiary from creating or permitting to exist any Lien that secures the Obligations outstanding under this Agreement or (b) restricts the ability of any Subsidiary to pay dividends or other distributions to the Company or other Subsidiaries or to make loans or advances to the Company or other Subsidiaries or to repay loans or advances made by the Company or other Subsidiaries to it; that the foregoing shall not apply to:
Restrictive Agreements.
provided
(a) restrictions or conditions imposed by law or by this Agreement;
(b) restrictions or conditions existing on the date hereof and set forth in Schedule 6.06 (or to any extension, amendment, modification, renewal or replacement thereof not expanding the scope of any such restriction or condition) to the extent such restrictions and conditions apply only to such Subsidiary and not to any other Subsidiary,
(c) restrictions or conditions that are binding on a Subsidiary at the time such Subsidiary first becomes a Subsidiary, so long as such restrictions or conditions were not entered into in contemplation of such Person becoming a Subsidiary;
(d) restrictions or conditions in agreements that represent or secure Indebtedness of a non-US Subsidiary, provided that such restrictions or conditions apply solely to such non-US Subsidiary;
(e) restrictions or conditions that are customary provisions in joint venture agreements and other similar agreements applicable to joint ventures and applicable solely to such joint ventures;
(f) restrictions or conditions on Liens in favor of any holder of Indebtedness permitted under Section 6.01 and 6.02 but solely to the extent any negative pledge or other restriction on Liens relates to the property financed by such Indebtedness, and negative pledge clauses in favor of any holder of Indebtedness permitted under this Agreement that restrict Liens unless the holder of such Indebtedness is equally and ratably secured thereby;
(g) customary restrictions and conditions contained in agreements relating to the sale of a Subsidiary or of any assets pending such sale to the extent that
such restrictions and conditions apply only to the Subsidiary or assets that is or are to be sold and such sale is permitted hereunder;
(h) restrictions and conditions imposed upon any project finance, securitization or other special purpose Subsidiary in connection with any incurrence by it of Indebtedness permitted hereunder if (A) the principal obligations arising under such transaction are solely obligations of such Subsidiary and are non-recourse to the Company or any other Subsidiary and (B) such restrictions apply only to such Subsidiary and not to any other Subsidiary;
(i) restrictions and conditions imposed on the transfer of licensed intellectual property and customary provisions in agreements that restrict the assignment of such agreements or any rights thereunder;
(j) customary financial covenants affecting the maintenance or retention of assets or capital by a Subsidiary; and
(k) restrictions or conditions imposed by any agreement relating to secured Indebtedness that is permitted under Section 6.01 and 6.02, to the extent that such restrictions apply only to the property or assets securing such Indebtedness;
In addition, clause (a) of the foregoing shall not apply to customary provisions in leases, licenses and other contracts restricting the assignment, sublease or sublicense thereof (or relating to the transfer of the assets subject thereto).
The Company will not permit any restrictive agreements under this Section 6.06 that, individually or in the aggregate, would limit the ability of Subsidiaries, taken as a whole, to pay dividends or make distributions to the Company to the extent that such dividends or distributions are required in order to enable the Company to perform its obligations under this Agreement.
SECTION 6.07.   The Company will not permit the ratio of (a) Consolidated EBITDA to (b) Consolidated Interest Expense, in each case for any period of four consecutive fiscal quarters, to be less than 3.00 to 1.00.
Interest Coverage Ratio.
SECTION 6.08.   The Company will not at any time permit the ratio of (a) Adjusted Consolidated Total Indebtedness at such time to (b) Consolidated EBITDA for the most recently ended period of four consecutive fiscal quarters to be greater than 3.25 to 1.00.
Adjusted Leverage Ratio.
If any of the following events ("") shall occur:
Events of Default
(a) any Borrower shall fail to pay any principal of any Loan or any reimbursement obligation in respect of any LC Disbursement when and as the same shall become due and payable, whether at the due date thereof or at a date fixed for prepayment thereof or otherwise;
(b) any Borrower shall fail to pay any interest on any Loan or any fee or any other amount (other than an amount referred to in clause (a) of this Article) payable under this Agreement, when and as the same shall become due and payable, and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of three Business Days;
(c) any representation or warranty made or deemed made by or on behalf of the Company or any other Borrower in or in connection with this Agreement or any amendment or modification hereof or waiver hereunder, or in any report, certificate, financial statement or other document furnished pursuant to or in connection with this Agreement or any amendment or modification hereof or waiver hereunder, shall prove to have been materially incorrect when made or deemed made;
(d) the Company or any other Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in Section 5.02, 5.03 (with respect to any Borrower's existence) or 5.09 or in Article VI;
(e) the Company or any other Borrower shall fail to observe or perform any covenant, condition or agreement contained in this Agreement (other than those specified in clause (a), (b) or (d) of this Article), and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of 30 days after notice thereof from the Administrative Agent to the Company (which notice will be given at the request of any Lender);
(f) the Company or any Subsidiary shall fail to make any payment (whether of principal or interest) in respect of any Material Indebtedness, when and as the same shall become due and payable or within any applicable cure period;
(g) any event or condition occurs that results in any Material Indebtedness becoming due or being terminated or required to be prepaid, repurchased, redeemed or defeased prior to its scheduled maturity, or that enables or permits (with or without the giving of notice, the lapse of time or both) the holder or holders of any Material Indebtedness or any trustee or agent on its or their behalf to cause any Material Indebtedness to become due, or to terminate or require the prepayment, repurchase, redemption or defeasance thereof, prior to its scheduled
maturity; that this clause (g) shall not apply to secured Indebtedness that becomes due as a result of the voluntary sale or transfer of the property or assets securing such Indebtedness;
provided
(h) an involuntary proceeding shall be commenced or an involuntary petition shall be filed seeking (i) liquidation, reorganization or other relief in respect of the Company or any Material Subsidiary or its debts, or of a substantial part of its assets, under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect or (ii) the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Company or any Material Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its assets, and, in any such case, such proceeding or petition shall continue undismissed for 60 days or an order or decree approving or ordering any of the foregoing shall be entered;
(i) the Company or any Material Subsidiary shall (i) voluntarily commence any proceeding or file any petition seeking liquidation, reorganization or other relief under any Federal, state or foreign bankruptcy, insolvency, receivership or similar law now or hereafter in effect, (ii) consent to the institution of, or fail to contest in a timely and appropriate manner, any proceeding or petition described in clause (h) of this Article, (iii) apply for or consent to the appointment of a receiver, trustee, custodian, sequestrator, conservator or similar official for the Company or any Material Subsidiary or for a substantial part of its assets, (iv) file an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against it in any such proceeding, (v) make a general assignment for the benefit of creditors or (vi) take any action for the purpose of effecting any of the foregoing;
(j) the Company or any Material Subsidiary shall become unable, admit in writing its inability or fail generally to pay its debts as they become due;
(k) one or more judgments for the payment of money in an aggregate amount in excess of $100,000,000 shall be rendered against the Company, any Subsidiary or any combination thereof and the same shall remain undischarged for a period of 60 consecutive days during which execution shall not be effectively stayed, or any action shall be legally taken by a judgment creditor to attach or levy upon any assets of the Company or any Subsidiary to enforce any such judgment;
(l) an ERISA Event shall have occurred that, in the opinion of the Required Lenders, when taken together with all other ERISA Events that have occurred, would be materially likely to result in liability of the Company and the Subsidiaries in an aggregate amount in excess of $100,000,000;
(m) the guarantee of the Company hereunder shall cease to be, or shall be asserted by the Company not to be, a legal, valid or binding obligation of the Company; or
(n) a Change in Control shall occur;
then, and in every such event (other than an event with respect to any Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article), and at any time thereafter during the continuance of such event, the Administrative Agent may, and at the request of the Required Lenders shall, by notice to the Company, take either or both of the following actions, at the same or different times:  (i) terminate the Commitments, and thereupon the Commitments shall terminate immediately, and (ii) declare the Loans then outstanding to be due and payable in whole (or in part, in which case any principal not so declared to be due and payable may thereafter be declared to be due and payable), and thereupon the principal of the Loans so declared to be due and payable, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of the Borrowers accrued hereunder, shall become due and payable immediately, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrowers; and in case of any event with respect to any Borrower described in clause (h) or (i) of this Article, the Commitments shall automatically terminate and the principal of the Loans then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon and all fees and other obligations of the Borrowers accrued hereunder, shall automatically become due and payable, without presentment, demand, protest or other notice of any kind, all of which are hereby waived by the Borrowers.
Each of the Lenders and the Issuing Banks hereby irrevocably appoints the Administrative Agent as its agent and authorizes the Administrative Agent to take such actions on its behalf and to exercise such powers as are delegated to the Administrative Agent by the terms hereof, together with such actions and powers as are reasonably incidental thereto.
The bank serving as Administrative Agent hereunder shall have the same rights and powers in its capacity as a Lender as any other Lender and may exercise the same as though it were not the Administrative Agent, and such bank and its Affiliates may accept deposits from, lend money to and generally engage in any kind of business with the Company or any Subsidiary or other Affiliate thereof as if it were not the Administrative Agent hereunder.
The Administrative Agent shall not have any duties or obligations except those expressly set forth herein.  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, (a) the Administrative Agent shall not be subject to any fiduciary or other implied duties, regardless of whether a Default has occurred and is continuing, (b) the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to take any discretionary action or exercise any discretionary powers, except discretionary rights and powers expressly contemplated hereby that the Administrative Agent is required to exercise in writing by the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in Section 10.02), and (c) except as expressly set forth herein, the Administrative Agent shall not have any duty to disclose, and shall not be liable for the failure to disclose, any information relating to the Company or any of its
Subsidiaries that is communicated to or obtained by the bank serving as the Administrative Agent or any of its Affiliates in any capacity.  The Administrative Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it with the consent or at the request of the Required Lenders (or such other number or percentage of the Lenders as shall be necessary under the circumstances as provided in Section 10.02) or in the absence of its own gross negligence or willful misconduct.  The Administrative Agent shall be deemed to have no knowledge of any Default unless and until written notice thereof is given to the Administrative Agent by the Company or a Lender, and the Administrative Agent shall not be responsible for or have any duty to ascertain or inquire into (i) any statement, warranty or representation made in or in connection with this Agreement, (ii) the contents of any certificate, report or other document delivered hereunder or in connection herewith, (iii) the performance or observance of any of the covenants, agreements or other terms or conditions set forth herein, (iv) the validity, enforceability, effectiveness or genuineness of this Agreement or any other agreement, instrument or document or (v) the satisfaction of any condition set forth in Article IV or elsewhere herein, other than to confirm receipt of items expressly required to be delivered to the Administrative Agent.
The Administrative Agent shall be entitled to rely upon, and shall not incur any liability for relying upon, any notice, request, certificate, consent, statement, instrument, document or other writing believed by it to be genuine and to have been signed or sent by the proper Person. The Administrative Agent also may rely upon any statement made to it orally or by telephone and believed by it to be made by the proper Person, and shall not incur any liability for relying thereon.  The Administrative Agent may consult with legal counsel (who may be counsel for any Borrower), independent accountants and other experts selected by it, and shall not be liable for any action taken or not taken by it in accordance with the advice of any such counsel, accountants or experts.
The Administrative Agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers by or through any one or more sub-agents appointed by it.  The Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent may perform any and all its duties and exercise its rights and powers through their respective Related Parties.  The exculpatory provisions of the preceding paragraphs shall apply to any such sub-agent and to the Related Parties of the Administrative Agent and any such sub-agent, and shall apply to their respective activities in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein as well as activities as the Administrative Agent.
Subject to the appointment and acceptance of a successor Administrative Agent as provided in this paragraph, the Administrative Agent may resign at any time by notifying the Lenders, the Issuing Banks and the Company.  Upon any such resignation, the Company shall have the right, in consultation with the Required Lenders, to appoint a successor.  If no successor shall have been so appointed by the Company and shall have accepted such appointment within 30 days after the retiring Administrative Agent gives notice of its resignation, then the retiring Administrative Agent may, on behalf of the Lenders and the Issuing Banks, appoint a successor Administrative Agent, which shall be a bank with an office in New York, New York, or an Affiliate of any such bank.  Upon the acceptance of its appointment as Administrative Agent hereunder by a successor, such successor shall succeed to and become vested with all the rights, powers, privileges
and duties of the retiring Administrative Agent, and the retiring Administrative Agent shall be discharged from its duties and obligations hereunder.  The fees payable by the Company to a successor Administrative Agent shall be the same as those payable to its predecessor unless otherwise agreed between the Company and such successor.  After the Administrative Agent's resignation hereunder, the provisions of this Article and Section 10.03 shall continue in effect for the benefit of the retiring Administrative Agent, its sub-agents and their respective Related Parties in respect of any actions taken or omitted to be taken by any of them while it was acting as the Administrative Agent.
Each Lender acknowledges that it has, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it has deemed appropriate, made its own credit analysis and decision to enter into this Agreement.  Each Lender also acknowledges that it will, independently and without reliance upon the Administrative Agent or any other Lender and based on such documents and information as it shall from time to time deem appropriate, continue to make its own decisions in taking or not taking action under or based upon this Agreement, any related agreement or any document furnished hereunder or thereunder.
In order to induce the Lenders and the Issuing Banks to extend credit to the Borrowing Subsidiaries hereunder, the Company hereby irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees the payment when and as due of the Obligations of each Borrowing Subsidiary. The Company further agrees that the due and punctual payment of such Obligations may be extended or renewed, in whole or in part, without notice to or further assent from it, and that it will remain bound upon its guarantee hereunder notwithstanding any such extension or renewal of any such Obligation.
The Company waives presentment to, demand of payment from and protest to any Borrowing Subsidiary of any of the Obligations, and also waives notice of acceptance of its obligations and notice of protest for nonpayment.  The obligations of the Company hereunder shall not be affected by (a) the failure of the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any Issuing Bank to assert any claim or demand or to enforce any right or remedy against any Borrowing Subsidiary under the provisions of this Agreement or otherwise; (b) any extension or renewal of any of the Obligations; (c) any rescission, waiver, amendment or modification of, or release from, any of the terms or provisions of this Agreement, or any other agreement; (d) any default, failure or delay, willful or otherwise, in the performance of any of the Obligations; or (e) any other act, omission or delay to do any other act which may or might in any manner or to any extent vary the risk of the Company or otherwise operate as a discharge of a guarantor as a matter of law or equity or which would impair or eliminate any right of the Company to subrogation.
The Company further agrees that its agreement hereunder constitutes a guarantee of payment when due (whether or not any bankruptcy or similar proceeding
shall have stayed the accrual or collection of any of the Obligations or operated as a discharge thereof) and not merely of collection, and waives any right to require that any resort be had by the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any Issuing Bank to any balance of any deposit account or credit on the books of the Administrative Agent, such Lender or such Issuing Bank in favor of any Borrowing Subsidiary or any other Person.
The obligations of the Company hereunder shall not be subject to any reduction, limitation, impairment or termination for any reason, and shall not be subject to any defense or set-off, counterclaim, recoupment or termination whatsoever, by reason of the invalidity, illegality or unenforceability of any of the Obligations, any impossibility in the performance of any of the Obligations or otherwise.
The Company further agrees that its obligations hereunder shall continue to be effective or be reinstated, as the case may be, if at any time payment, or any part thereof, of any Obligation is rescinded or must otherwise be restored by the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any Issuing Bank upon the bankruptcy or reorganization of any Borrowing Subsidiary or otherwise.
In furtherance of the foregoing and not in limitation of any other right that the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any Issuing Bank may have at law or in equity against the Company by virtue hereof, upon the failure of any Borrowing Subsidiary to pay any Obligation when and as the same shall become due, whether at maturity, by acceleration, after notice of prepayment or otherwise, the Company hereby promises to and will, upon receipt of written demand by the Administrative Agent, Lender or Issuing Bank, forthwith pay, or cause to be paid, to the Administrative Agent, Lender or Issuing Bank in cash an amount equal to the unpaid principal amount of such Obligation then due, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon.
Upon payment by the Company of any sums as provided above, all rights of the Company against any Borrowing Subsidiary arising as a result thereof by way of right of subrogation or otherwise shall in all respects be subordinated and junior in right of payment to the prior indefeasible payment in full of all the Obligations owed by such Borrowing Subsidiary to the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders.
Nothing shall discharge or satisfy the liability of the Company hereunder except the full and indefeasible performance and payment of the Obligations.
SECTION 10.01. . Except in the case of notices and other communications expressly permitted to be given by telephone, all notices and other communications provided for herein shall be in writing and shall be delivered by hand or overnight courier service, mailed by certified or registered mail or sent by fax, as follows:
Notices
(a) if to the Company, to it at Agilent Technologies, Inc., Attention of Treasurer (Fax No. (408) 553-7516), with a copy to the Attention of Assistant Treasurer (Fax No. (408) 553-7516);
(b) if to any Borrowing Subsidiary, to it in care of the Company as provided in paragraph (a) above;
(c) if to the Administrative Agent, to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., in its capacity as Issuing Bank, to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Loan and Agency Services Group, 1111 Fannin, 10th Floor, Houston, TX 77002, Attention of Nga Maryann Bui (Fax No. (713) 750-2358), with a copy to the Attention of Toyin S. Ojeahere (Fax No. (713) 750-2358);
(d) if to the Swingline Lender, to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Deal Management Team, Loan and Agency Services Group, 1111 Fannin Street, Houston, Texas 77002, Attention of Nga Maryann Bui (Fax No. (713) 750-2358), with a copy to the Attention of Toyin S. Ojeahere (Fax No. (713) 750-2358); and
(e) if to any other Issuing Bank or Lender, to it at its address (or fax number) set forth in its Administrative Questionnaire.
Any party hereto may change its address or fax number for notices and other communications hereunder by notice to the other parties hereto.  All notices and other communications given to any party hereto in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given on the date of receipt.
SECTION 10.02. (a) No failure or delay by the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender in exercising any right or power hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right or power, or any abandonment or discontinuance of steps to enforce such a right or power, preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right or power. The rights and remedies of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders hereunder are cumulative and are not exclusive of any rights or remedies that they would otherwise have. No waiver of any provision of this Agreement or consent to any departure by any Borrower therefrom shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be permitted by paragraph (b) of this Section, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the purpose for which given. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the making of a Loan or issuance of a Letter of Credit shall not be construed as a waiver of any Default, regardless of whether the Administrative Agent, any Lender or any Issuing Bank may have had notice or knowledge of such Default at the time.
Waivers; Amendments.
(b) Neither this Agreement nor any provision hereof may be waived, amended or modified except pursuant to an agreement or agreements in writing entered into by the Company and the Required Lenders or by the Company and the Administrative Agent with the consent of the Required Lenders; that no such agreement shall (i) increase the Commitment of any Lender without the written consent
provided
of such Lender, (ii) reduce the principal amount of any Loan or LC Disbursement or reduce the rate of interest thereon, or reduce any fees payable hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iii) postpone the scheduled date of payment of the principal amount of any Loan or LC Disbursement, or any interest thereon, or any fees payable hereunder, or reduce the amount of, waive or excuse any such payment, or postpone the scheduled date of expiration of any Commitment, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (iv) change Section 2.08(c) or Section 2.18(b) or 2.18(c) in a manner that would alter the pro rata sharing of Commitment reductions or payments required thereby, as the case may be, without the written consent of each Lender affected thereby, (v) change any of the provisions of this Section or the definition of "Required Lenders" or any other provision hereof specifying the number or percentage of Lenders required to waive, amend or modify any rights hereunder or make any determination or grant any consent hereunder, without the written consent of each Lender or (vi) release the Company from, or limit or condition, its Obligations under Article IX without the written consent of each Lender; provided further that no such agreement shall amend, modify or otherwise affect the rights or duties of the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender hereunder without the prior written consent of the Administrative Agent, such Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender, as the case may be.
SECTION 10.03. (a) The Company shall pay (i) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent and its Affiliates, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of counsel for the Administrative Agent, in connection with the syndication of the credit facilities provided for herein, the preparation and administration of this Agreement or any amendments, modifications or waivers of the provisions hereof (whether or not the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby shall be consummated), (ii) all reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Issuing Banks in connection with the issuance, amendment, renewal or extension of any Letter of Credit or any demand for payment thereunder and (iii) all out-of-pocket expenses incurred by the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender, including the reasonable fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender, in connection with the lawful enforcement of its rights in connection with this Agreement, including its rights under this Section, or in connection with the Loans made or Letters of Credit issued hereunder, including all such out-of-pocket expenses incurred during any workout, restructuring or negotiations in respect of such Loans or Letters of Credit.
Expenses; Indemnity; Damage Waiver.
(b) The Company shall indemnify the Administrative Agent and each Lender, and each Related Party of any of the foregoing Persons (each such Person being called an "") against, and hold each Indemnitee harmless from, any and all losses, claims, damages, liabilities and related expenses, including the fees, charges and disbursements of any counsel for any Indemnitee, incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of (i) the execution or delivery of this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the performance by the parties hereto of their respective obligations hereunder or the consummation of the Transactions or any other transactions contemplated hereby, (ii) any
Indemnitee
 
Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds therefrom (including any refusal by an Issuing Bank to honor a demand for payment under a Letter of Credit if the documents presented in connection with such demand do not strictly comply with the terms of such Letter of Credit), (iii) any actual or alleged presence or release of Hazardous Materials on or from any property owned or operated by the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or any Environmental Liability related in any way to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries, or (iv) any actual or prospective claim, litigation, investigation or proceeding relating to any of the foregoing, whether based on contract, tort or any other theory and regardless of whether any Indemnitee is a party thereto or whether brought by any third party or by you or any of your Affiliates; that such indemnity shall not, as to any Indemnitee, be available to the extent that such losses, claims, damages, liabilities or related expenses are determined by a court of competent jurisdiction by final and nonappealable judgment to have resulted from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee.
provided
(c) To the extent that the Company fails to pay any amount required to be paid by it to the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender under paragraph (a) or (b) of this Section, each Lender severally agrees to pay to the Administrative Agent, such Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender, as the case may be, such Lender's Applicable Percentage (determined as of the time that the applicable unreimbursed expense or indemnity payment is sought) of such unpaid amount; that the unreimbursed expense or indemnified loss, claim, damage, liability or related expense, as the case may be, was incurred by or asserted against the Administrative Agent, such Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender in its capacity as such.
provided
(d) To the extent permitted by applicable law, no Borrower shall assert, and each Borrower hereby waives, any claim against any Indemnitee, on any theory of liability, for special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (as opposed to direct or actual damages) arising out of, in connection with, or as a result of, this Agreement or any agreement or instrument contemplated hereby, the Transactions, any Loan or Letter of Credit or the use of the proceeds thereof.
(e) All amounts due under this Section shall be payable promptly after written demand therefor.
SECTION 10.04. (a) The provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby (including any Affiliate of any Issuing Bank that issues any Letter of Credit), except that neither the Company nor any other Borrower may assign or otherwise transfer any of its rights or obligations hereunder without the prior written consent of each Lender (and any attempted assignment or transfer by any Borrower without such consent shall be null and void).  Nothing in this Agreement, expressed or implied, shall be construed to confer upon any Person (other than the parties hereto, their respective successors and assigns permitted hereby (including any Affiliate of any Issuing Bank that issues Letters of Credit) and, to the extent expressly contemplated hereby, the Related Parties of each of the Administrative
Successors and Assigns.
Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders) any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or by reason of this Agreement.
(b) Any Lender may assign to one or more assignees all or a portion of its rights and obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans at the time owing to it); that (i) except in the case of an assignment by a Lender to a Lender Affiliate of such Lender, the Administrative Agent, each Issuing Bank and the Swingline Lender must give their prior written consent to such assignment (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld), (ii) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or a Lender Affiliate, the Company must give its prior written consent to such assignment (which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld), (iii) except in the case of an assignment to a Lender or a Lender Affiliate or an assignment of the entire remaining amount of the assigning Lender's Commitment, the amount of the Commitment of the assigning Lender subject to each such assignment (determined as of the date the Assignment and Assumption with respect to such assignment is delivered to the Administrative Agent) shall not be less than $5,000,000 unless each of the Company and the Administrative Agent otherwise consent, (iv) each partial assignment shall be made as an assignment of a proportionate part of all the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, (v) the parties to each assignment shall execute and deliver to the Administrative Agent an Assignment and Assumption, together with a processing and recordation fee of $3,500, and (vi) the assignee, if it shall not be a Lender, shall deliver to the Administrative Agent an Administrative Questionnaire; and that any consent of the Company otherwise required under this paragraph shall not be required if an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing.  Subject to acceptance and recording thereof pursuant to paragraph (d) of this Section, from and after the effective date specified in each Assignment and Assumption the assignee thereunder shall be a party hereto and, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, have the rights and obligations of a Lender under this Agreement, and the assigning Lender thereunder shall, to the extent of the interest assigned by such Assignment and Assumption, be released from its obligations under this Agreement (and, in the case of an Assignment and Assumption covering all of the assigning Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement, such Lender shall cease to be a party hereto but shall continue to be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.15, 2.16, 2.17 and 10.03).  Any assignment or transfer by a Lender of rights or obligations under this Agreement that does not comply with this paragraph shall be treated for purposes of this Agreement as a sale by such Lender of a participation in such rights and obligations in accordance with paragraph (c) of this Section.
provided
provided further
(c) The Administrative Agent, acting for this purpose as an agent of each Borrower, shall maintain at one of its offices in The City of New York a copy of each Assignment and Assumption delivered to it and a register for the recordation of the names and addresses of the Lenders, and the Commitment of, and principal amount of the Loans and LC Disbursements owing to, each Lender pursuant to the terms hereof from time to time (the ""). The entries in the Register shall be conclusive, and the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders may treat each Person whose name is recorded in the Register pursuant to the terms hereof as a Lender hereunder for all purposes of this Agreement, notwithstanding notice to the contrary.  The
Register
Register shall be available for inspection by each Borrower, any Issuing Bank and any Lender, at any reasonable time and from time to time upon reasonable prior notice.
(d) Upon its receipt of a duly completed Assignment and Assumption executed by an assigning Lender and an assignee, the assignee's completed Administrative Questionnaire (unless the assignee shall already be a Lender hereunder), the processing and recordation fee referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section and any written consent to such assignment required by paragraph (b) of this Section, the Administrative Agent shall accept such Assignment and Assumption and record the information contained therein in the Register.  No assignment shall be effective for purposes of this Agreement unless it has been recorded in the Register as provided in this paragraph.
(e) Any Lender may, without the consent of any Borrower, the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or the Swingline Lender, sell participations to one or more banks or other entities (a "") in all or a portion of such Lender's rights and/or obligations under this Agreement (including all or a portion of its Commitment and the Loans owing to it); that (i) such Lender's obligations under this Agreement shall remain unchanged, (ii) such Lender shall remain solely responsible to the other parties hereto for the performance of such obligations and (iii) the Borrowers, the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the other Lenders shall continue to deal solely and directly with such Lender in connection with such Lender's rights and obligations under this Agreement.  Any agreement or instrument pursuant to which a Lender sells such a participation shall provide that such Lender shall retain the sole right to enforce this Agreement and to approve any amendment, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement; that such agreement or instrument may provide that such Lender will not, without the consent of the Participant, agree to any amendment, modification or waiver described in the first proviso to Section 10.02(b) that affects such Participant. Subject to paragraph (f) of this Section, each Borrower agrees that each Participant shall be entitled to the benefits of Sections 2.15, 2.16 and 2.17 to the same extent as if it were a Lender and had acquired its interest by assignment pursuant to paragraph (b) of this Section.  To the extent permitted by law and if prior written notice of the sale of the participation to the Participant is to the Company, each Participant also shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 10.08 as though it were a Lender, such Participant agrees to be subject to Section 2.18(c) as though it were a Lender.
Participant
provided
provided
provided
provided
(f) A Participant shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 2.15 or 2.17 than the applicable Lender would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Participant, unless the sale of the participation to such Participant is made with the Company's prior written consent.  A Participant that would be a Foreign Lender if it were a Lender shall not be entitled to the benefits of Section 2.17 unless the Company is notified of the participation sold to such Participant and such Participant agrees, for the benefit of the Company, to comply with Section 2.17(e) as though it were a Lender.
(g) Any Lender may at any time pledge or assign a security interest in all or any portion of its rights under this Agreement to secure obligations of such Lender, including any pledge or assignment to secure obligations to a Federal Reserve Bank, and this Section shall not apply to any such pledge or assignment of a security interest; that no such pledge or assignment of a security interest shall release a Lender from any of its obligations hereunder or substitute any such pledgee or assignee for such Lender as a party hereto.
provided
SECTION 10.05.   All covenants, agreements, representations and warranties made by the Borrowers herein and in the certificates or other instruments delivered in connection with or pursuant to this Agreement shall be considered to have been relied upon by the other parties hereto and shall survive the execution and delivery of this Agreement and the making of any Loans and issuance of any Letters of Credit, regardless of any investigation made by any such other party or on its behalf and notwithstanding that the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender may have had notice or knowledge of any Default or incorrect representation or warranty at the time any credit is extended hereunder, and shall continue in full force and effect as long as the principal of or any accrued interest on any Loan or any fee, LC Disbursement or any other amount payable under this Agreement is outstanding and unpaid or any Letter of Credit is outstanding and so long as the Commitments have not expired or terminated.  The provisions of Sections 2.15, 2.16, 2.17 and 10.03 and Article VIII shall survive and remain in full force and effect regardless of the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby, the repayment of the Loans, the expiration or termination of the Letters of Credit and the Commitments or the termination of this Agreement or any provision hereof.
Survival.
SECTION 10.06. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts (and by different parties hereto on different counterparts), each of which shall constitute an original, but all of which when taken together shall constitute a single contract.  This Agreement and any separate letter agreements with respect to fees payable to the Administrative Agent constitute the entire contract among the parties relating to the subject matter hereof and supersede any and all previous agreements and understandings, oral or written, relating to the subject matter hereof. Except as provided in Section 4.01, this Agreement shall become effective when it shall have been executed by the Administrative Agent and when the Administrative Agent shall have received counterparts hereof that, when taken together, bear the signatures of each of the other parties hereto, and thereafter shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns.  Delivery of an executed counterpart of a signature page of this Agreement by facsimile or other electronic image scan transmission shall be effective as delivery of a manually executed counterpart of this Agreement.
Counterparts; Integration; Effectiveness.
SECTION 10.07.   Any provision of this Agreement held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability without affecting the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof; and the
Severability.
invalidity of a particular provision in a particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate such provision in any other jurisdiction.
SECTION 10.08. If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, each Lender and each of its Affiliates is hereby authorized at any time and from time to time, to the fullest extent permitted by law, to set off and apply any and all deposits (general or special, time or demand, provisional or final) at any time held and other obligations at any time owing by such Lender or Affiliate to or for the credit or the account of any Credit Party against any of and all the obligations of such Credit Party now or hereafter existing under this Agreement held by such Lender, irrespective of whether or not such Lender shall have made any demand under this Agreement and although such obligations may be unmatured.  The rights of each Lender under this Section are in addition to other rights and remedies (including other rights of setoff) which such Lender may have.
Right of Setoff.
SECTION 10.09. (a) This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the law of the State of New York.
Governing Law; Jurisdiction; Consent to Service of Process.
(b) Each Credit Party hereby irrevocably and unconditionally submits, for itself and its property, to the nonexclusive jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the State of New York sitting in New York County and of the United States District Court of the Southern District of New York, and any appellate court from any thereof, in any action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement or for recognition or enforcement of any judgment, and each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally agrees that all claims in respect of any such action or proceeding may be heard and determined in such New York State or, to the extent permitted by law, in such Federal court. Each of the parties hereto agrees that a final judgment in any such action or proceeding shall be conclusive and may be enforced in other jurisdictions by suit on the judgment or in any other manner provided by law.  Nothing in this Agreement shall affect any right that the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender may otherwise have to bring any action or proceeding relating to this Agreement against any Borrower or its properties in the courts of any jurisdiction.
(c) Each Borrower hereby irrevocably and unconditionally waives, to the fullest extent it may legally and effectively do so, any objection which it may now or hereafter have to the laying of venue of any suit, action or proceeding arising out of or relating to this Agreement in any court referred to in paragraph (b) of this Section.  Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably waives, to the fullest extent permitted by law, the defense of an inconvenient forum to the maintenance of such action or proceeding in any such court.
(d) Each party to this Agreement irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided for notices in Section 10.01.  Nothing in this Agreement will affect the right of any party to this Agreement to serve process in any other manner permitted by law.
SECTION 10.10.   EACH PARTY
WAIVER OF JURY TRIAL.
HERETO HEREBY WAIVES, TO THE FULLEST EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, ANY RIGHT IT MAY HAVE TO A TRIAL BY JURY IN ANY LEGAL PROCEEDING DIRECTLY OR INDIRECTLY ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY (WHETHER BASED ON CONTRACT, TORT OR ANY OTHER THEORY).  EACH PARTY HERETO (A) CERTIFIES THAT NO REPRESENTATIVE, AGENT OR ATTORNEY OF ANY OTHER PARTY HAS REPRESENTED, EXPRESSLY OR OTHERWISE, THAT SUCH OTHER PARTY WOULD NOT, IN THE EVENT OF LITIGATION, SEEK TO ENFORCE THE FOREGOING WAIVER AND (B) ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT AND THE OTHER PARTIES HERETO HAVE BEEN INDUCED TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT BY, AMONG OTHER THINGS, THE MUTUAL WAIVERS AND CERTIFICATIONS IN THIS SECTION.
SECTION 10.11.   Article and Section headings and the Table of Contents used herein are for convenience of reference only, are not part of this Agreement and shall not affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, this Agreement.
Headings.
SECTION 10.12. (a) Each of the Administrative Agent, the Issuing Banks and the Lenders agrees to maintain the confidentiality of the Information (as defined below), except that Information may be disclosed (i) to its and its Affiliates' directors, officers, employees and agents, including accountants, legal counsel and other advisors (it being understood that the Persons to whom such disclosure is made will be informed of the confidential nature of such Information and instructed to keep such Information confidential), (ii) to the extent requested by any bank regulatory authority, (iii) to the extent required by applicable laws or regulations or by any subpoena or similar legal process (but only after giving prompt written notice to the Company, to the extent permitted by law, of any such requirement or request so that the Company may seek a protective order or other appropriate remedy and/or waive compliance with this Section), (iv) to any other party to this Agreement, (v) in connection with the exercise of any remedies hereunder or any suit, action or proceeding relating the enforcement of rights hereunder, (vi) subject to an agreement containing provisions substantially the same as those of this Section, to any assignee of or Participant in, or any prospective assignee of or Participant in, any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement, (vii) with the consent of the Company or (viii) to the extent such Information (A) becomes publicly available other than as a result of a breach of this Section or (B) becomes available to the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis from a source other than the Company.  For the purposes of this Section, "" means all information received from the Company relating to the Company or its business, other than any such information that is available to the Administrative Agent, any Issuing Bank or any Lender on a nonconfidential basis prior to disclosure by the Company; that, in the case of information received from the Company after the date hereof, such information is clearly identified at the time of delivery as confidential. Any Person required to maintain the confidentiality of Information as provided in this Section shall be considered to have complied with its obligation to do so if such Person has exercised the same degree of care to maintain the
Confidentiality.
Information
provided
confidentiality of such Information as such Person would accord to its own confidential information.
(b) Each Lender acknowledges that Information furnished to it pursuant to this Agreement may include material non-public information concerning the Company and its Related Parties or the Company's securities, and confirms that it has developed compliance procedures regarding the use of material non-public information and that it will handle such material non-public information in accordance with those procedures and applicable law, including Federal and state securities laws.
(c) All information, including requests for waivers and amendments, furnished by any Borrower or the Administrative Agent pursuant to, or in the course of administering, this Agreement will be syndicate-level information, which may contain material non-public information about the Company and its Related Parties or the Company's securities.  Accordingly, each Lender represents to the Company and the Administrative Agent that it has identified in its Administrative Questionnaire a credit contact who may receive information that may contain material non-public information in accordance with its compliance procedures and applicable law, including Federal and state securities laws.
SECTION 10.13. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if at any time the interest rate applicable to any Loan, together with all fees, charges and other amounts which are treated as interest on such Loan under applicable law (collectively the ""), shall exceed the maximum lawful rate (the "") which may be contracted for, charged, taken, received or reserved by the Lender holding such Loan in accordance with applicable law, the rate of interest payable in respect of such Loan hereunder, together with all Charges payable in respect thereof, shall be limited to the Maximum Rate and, to the extent lawful, the interest and Charges that would have been payable in respect of such Loan but were not payable as a result of the operation of this Section shall be cumulated and the interest and Charges payable to such Lender in respect of other Loans or periods shall be increased (but not above the Maximum Rate therefor) until such cumulated amount, together with interest thereon at the Federal Funds Effective Rate to the date of repayment, shall have been received by such Lender.
Interest Rate Limitation.
Charges
Maximum Rate
SECTION 10.14. (a) If, for the purpose of obtaining judgment in any court, it is necessary to convert a sum owing hereunder in one currency into another currency, each party hereto (including any Borrowing Subsidiary) agrees, to the fullest extent that it may effectively do so, that the rate of exchange used shall be that at which in accordance with normal banking procedures in the relevant jurisdiction the first currency could be purchased with such other currency on the Business Day immediately preceding the day on which final judgment is given.
Conversion of Currencies.
(b) The obligations of each Borrower in respect of any sum due to any party hereto or any holder of the obligations owing hereunder (the "") shall, notwithstanding any judgment in a currency (the "") other than the currency in which such sum is stated to be due hereunder (the "
Applicable Creditor
Judgment Currency
Agreement
"), be discharged only to the extent that, on the Business Day following receipt by the Applicable Creditor of any sum adjudged to be so due in the Judgment Currency, the Applicable Creditor may in accordance with normal banking procedures in the relevant jurisdiction purchase the Agreement Currency with the Judgment Currency; if the amount of the Agreement Currency so purchased is less than the sum originally due to the Applicable Creditor in the Agreement Currency, such Borrower agrees, as a separate obligation and notwithstanding any such judgment, to indemnify the Applicable Creditor against such loss.  The obligations of the Borrowers contained in this Section shall survive the termination of this Agreement and the payment of all other amounts owing hereunder.
Currency
SECTION 10.15. Each Lender hereby notifies the Borrowers that pursuant to the requirements of the USA Patriot Act, it is required to obtain, verify and record information that identifies the Borrowers, which information includes the name and address of the Borrowers and other information that will allow such Lender to identify the Borrowers in accordance with the USA Patriot Act.
USA Patriot Act.
SECTION 10.16. Each Borrower, on behalf of itself and its Subsidiaries, agrees that in connection with all aspects of the transactions contemplated hereby and any communications in connection therewith, the Borrowers, their Subsidiaries and their Affiliates, on the one hand, and the Administrative Agent, the Lenders, the Issuing Banks and their Affiliates, on the other hand, will have a business relationship that does not create, by implication or otherwise, any fiduciary duty on the part of the Administrative Agent, any Lender, any Issuing Bank or any of their Affiliates, and no such duty will be deemed to have arisen in connection with any such transactions or communications.
No Fiduciary Relationship.
[The remainder of this page has been left blank intentionally]
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective authorized officers as of the day and year first above written.
 
SIGNATURE PAGE TO
TECHNOLOGIES, INC. FIVE-YEAR CREDIT AGREEMENT
SIGNATURE PAGE TO AGILENT
 
TECHNOLOGIES, INC. FIVE-YEAR CREDIT AGREEMENT
SIGNATURE PAGE TO AGILENT
 
SIGNATURE PAGE TO AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
FIVE-YEAR CREDIT AGREEMENT
 
SIGNATURE PAGE TO AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
FIVE-YEAR CREDIT AGREEMENT
 

Exhibit 99.1
EDITORIAL CONTACTS:
Amy Flores +1 408 345 8194 amy_flores@agilent.com
Jorgen Tesselaar (Europe and Asia) +31 20 547 2825 jorgen_tesselaar@agilent.com
INVESTOR CONTACT:
Rodney Gonsalves +1 408 345 8948 rodney_gonsalves@agilent.com
SANTA CLARA, Calif., May 14, 2007  Agilent Technologies Inc. (NYSE: A) today reported orders of $1.40 billion for the second fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2007, 10 percent above one year ago. Revenues during the quarter were $1.32 billion, 7 percent above last year. Second quarter GAAP net income was $123 million, or $0.30 per diluted share, compared with $115 million, or $0.26 per share, in last year's second quarter.
Included in this quarter's GAAP income is $40 million of share-based compensation expense. Excluding this item and $13 million of tax and other net costs, Agilent reported second quarter adjusted net income of $176 million, or $0.43 per share. On a comparable basis, the company earned $157 million, or $0.36 per share, one year ago. (1)
"Agilent had another solid performance in this year's second quarter," said Bill Sullivan, Agilent president and chief executive officer. "Both revenues and earnings were in the middle of our guidance range. As in the first quarter, we saw
1
notable strength across our Bio-Analytical Measurement portfolio, and significant weakness in wireless handset test." In Q2, revenues were up 7 percent, and adjusted net income per share, at $0.43, was 19 percent above last year's results.
Sullivan noted that the company's Bio-Analytical revenues were up 15 percent, again outpacing all major competitors. "We're particularly pleased by the initial reception to our second quarter GC and GC/MS platform introductions." Sullivan also noted that, while Electronic Measurement revenues grew 3 percent, segment growth excluding the impact of a weak handset test market was about 7 percent.
Sullivan added, "The pick-up in second quarter Electronic Measurement bookings to 8 percent growth, combined with the steady 14 percent growth in Bio-Analytical orders, bodes well for Agilent's prospects in the second half of this year."
Second quarter Return on Invested Capital(2) reached 25 percent, 2 points better than last year's strong performance, while receivables Days-Sales-Outstanding improved 4 days. Inventory Days-On-Hand, anticipating a stronger second half, increased by 6 days. Cash generated from operating activities was $302 million in the second quarter. During the period, the company repurchased $382 million of its common stock. The company ended the quarter with net cash of $2.1 billion.
For the fiscal third quarter of 2007, Agilent expects revenues of $1.36 billion to $1.40 billion, up 10 percent to 13 percent from last year. Adjusted net income is expected to be in the range of $0.46 to $0.50 per share, 18 percent to 28 percent above last year's comparable earnings. Normal seasonality would suggest fourth quarter revenues roughly 5 percent above the third quarter and an increase in operating earnings of about $0.09 per share. (3)
2
Segment Results
Bio-Analytical Measurement ($ millions except where noted)
 
 
Bio-Analytical Measurement orders were up 14 percent in the second quarter from one year ago, marking the fourth consecutive quarter of double-digit growth. Revenues of $428 million were up 15 percent from last year, with double- digit growth in all major geographies and strength across the portfolio of instruments, consumables and services. Life Sciences revenues of $194 million were up 20 percent from last year. Sustained momentum of the Liquid Chromatography and LC / MS platform as well as a market leading position in emerging Comparative Genomics Hybridization (CGH) microarray applications drove the second quarter growth of Life Sciences. Chemical Analysis revenues of $234 million were up 11 percent from last year, with environmental spending and forensics showing particular strength. Market reception to the new Gas Chromatography and GC/MS platform has been excellent and above expectations.
(2) improved 6 points to 27 percent.
Segment income from operations of $67 million was $22 million above last year on a $56 million increase in revenues. Gross margins improved by 3 points, while operating margins improved 4 points to 16 percent. Segment Return On Invested Capital
Electronic Measurement ($ millions except where noted)
 
3
Second quarter Electronic Measurement orders of $943 million were up 8 percent from last year, double the average of the past four quarters. The pick-up in orders was due to sustained momentum in general purpose test, strength in wireline communications test and a bottoming of the wireless handset test market. Revenues of $892 million were up 3 percent, with Americas up 7 percent and Europe up 9 percent, while demand from Asia was down 3 percent. General Purpose Test revenues were 10 percent ahead of last year while Communications Test, reflecting the weakness in handset test, was off 7 percent from one year ago.
(2) improved 2 points to 25 percent.
Second quarter income from operations of $130 million was up $10 million from last year on a $25 million increase in revenues. Gross margins improved 3 points from last year while operating margins improved less than a point due to increased acquisition-related spending. Segment ROIC
About Agilent Technologies
Agilent Technologies Inc. (NYSE: A) is the world's premier measurement company and a technology leader in communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis. The company's 19,000 employees serve customers in more than 110 countries. Agilent had net revenues of $5.0 billion in fiscal 2006. Information about Agilent is available on the Web at www.agilent.com.
Agilent's management will present more details on its second quarter FY2007 financial results on a conference call with investors beginning at 1:30 p.m. (Pacific). This event will be webcast live in listen-only mode. Listeners may log on at www.investor.agilent.com and select "Q2 2007 Agilent Technologies Inc. Earnings Conference Call" in the "News & Events  Calendar of Events" section. The webcast will remain available on the company's Web site for 90 days.
A telephone replay of the conference call will be available from 3:30 p.m. (Pacific) today through May 21, 2007. The replay number is +1 888 286 8010 or international callers may dial +1 617 801 6888; enter pass code 56067025.
4
Forward-Looking Statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is subject to the safe harbors created therein. The forward-looking statements contained herein include, but are not limited to, information regarding Agilent's future revenues, earnings and profitability; the pace of new product introductions and future demand for the Company's products and services; and guidance for the third and fourth quarters and the second half of fiscal year 2007. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause Agilent's results to differ materially from management's current expectations. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, unforeseen changes in the strength of our customers' businesses, and unforeseen changes in the demand for current and new products and technologies.
In addition, other risks that Agilent faces in running its operations include the ability to execute successfully through business cycles while it continues to implement cost reductions; the ability to meet and achieve the benefits of its cost-reduction goals and otherwise successfully adapt its cost structures to continuing changes in business conditions; ongoing competitive, pricing and gross margin pressures; the risk that our cost-cutting initiatives will impair our ability to develop products and remain competitive and to operate effectively; the impact of geopolitical uncertainties on our operations, our markets and our ability to conduct business; the ability to improve asset performance to adapt to changes in demand; the ability to successfully introduce new products at the right time, price and mix; and other risks detailed in Agilent's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarterly period ended Jan. 31, 2007. Forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of Agilent's management and on currently available information. Agilent undertakes no responsibility to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.
Adjusted net income and adjusted net income per share are non-GAAP measures. Each of these measures is defined to exclude primarily the impacts of restructuring and asset impairment charges, business separation costs, non-cash stock-based compensation, intangible amortization as well as gains and losses from the sale of investments and disposals of businesses net of their tax effects. A reconciliation between adjusted net income and GAAP net income is set forth on
(1)
            
5
page 5 of the attached tables along with additional information regarding the use of this non-GAAP measure.
Return On Invested Capital is a non-GAAP measure and is defined as income (loss) from operations less other (income) expense and taxes, annualized, divided by the average of the two most recent quarter-end balances of assets less net current liabilities. The reconciliation of ROIC can be found on page 6 of the attached tables, along with additional information regarding the use of this non-GAAP measure.
(2)
            
Adjusted net income per share as projected for Q307 and Q407 is a non-GAAP measure which excludes primarily the impacts of future restructuring and asset impairment charges, non-cash stock-based compensation, and intangibles amortization. It also excludes the impact of the acquisition of Stratagene, which has not yet been completed. Most of these excluded amounts pertain to events that have not yet occurred and are not currently possible to estimate with a reasonable degree of accuracy. Therefore, no reconciliation to GAAP amounts has been provided. Future amortization of intangibles is expected to be approximately $10 million per quarter.
(3)
            
www.agilent.com/go/news.
NOTE TO EDITORS: Further technology, corporate citizenship and executive news is available on the Agilent news site at
6
(In millions, except per share amounts) (Unaudited) PRELIMINARY
AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
 
Income from continuing operations for the second quarter of fiscal years 2007 and 2006 include pre-tax share-based compensation expense under SFAS No. 123(R) of $40 million and $22 million, respectively, related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases.
The preliminary income statement is estimated based on our current information.
Page 1
(In millions, except per share amounts) (Unaudited) PRELIMINARY
AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
 
Income from continuing operations for the first six months of fiscal years 2007 and 2006 include pre-tax share-based compensation expense under SFAS No  123(R) of $76 million and $54 million, respectively, related to employee stock options and employee stock purchases.
The preliminary income statement is estimated based on our current information.
Page 2
 
The preliminary balance sheet is estimated based on our current information.
 
Page 3
(a) Cash payments included in operating activities:
 
The preliminary cash flow statement is estimated based on our current information.
Page 4
 
We provide adjusted net income and adjusted net income per share amounts in order to provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance and our prospects for the future. These supplemental measures exclude, among other things, expenses related to share-based compensation, charges related to the amortization of intangibles, the impact of restructuring charges and the sale of our businesses. Some of the exclusions, such as impairments, may be beyond the control of management. Further, some may be less predictable than revenue derived from our core businesses (the day to day business of selling our products and services). These reasons provide the basis for management's belief that the measures are useful.
Our management uses non-GAAP measures to evaluate the performance of our core businesses, to estimate future core performance and to compensate employees. Since management finds this measure to be useful, we believe that our investors benefit from seeing our results "through the eyes" of management in addition to seeing our GAAP results. This information facilitates our management's internal comparisons to our historical operating results as well as to the operating results of our competitors.
Our management recognizes that items such as share-based compensation expenses, amortization of intangibles and restructuring charges can have a material impact on our cash flows and/or our net income. Our GAAP financial statements including our statement of cash flows portray those effects. Although we believe it is useful for investors to see core performance free of special items, investors should understand that the excluded items are actual expenses that may impact the cash available to us for other uses. To gain a complete picture of all effects on the Company's profit and loss from any and all events, management does (and investors should) rely upon the GAAP income statement. The non-GAAP numbers focus instead upon the core business of the company, which is only a subset, albeit a critical one, of the Company's performance.
Readers are reminded that non-GAAP numbers are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. They should be read in conjunction with the GAAP financial measures. It should be noted as well that our non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
The preliminary adjusted net income and diluted EPS reconciliation is estimated based on our current information.
Page 5
 
 
ROIC calculation:(annualized current quarter segment return)/(average of the two most recent quarter-end balances of Segment Invested Capital)
Agilent return is equal to adjusted net income from continuing operations of $176 million minus net interest income after tax of $20 million. Please see "Adjusted Net Income and EPS Reconciliations" for a reconciliation of adjusted net income from continuing operations to GAAP income from continuing operations.
(a)
            
Segment assets consist of inventory, accounts receivable, property plant and equipment, gross goodwill and other intangibles, deferred taxes and allocated corporate assets.
(b)
           
Includes accounts payable, employee compensation and benefits, other accrued liabilities and allocated corporate liabilities.
(c)
            
Return on invested capital (ROIC) is a non-GAAP measure that management believes provides useful supplemental information for management and the investor.  ROIC is a tool by which we track how much value we are creating for our shareholders.  Management uses ROIC as a performance measure for our businesses, and our senior managers' compensation is linked to ROIC improvements as well as other performance criteria.  We believe that ROIC provides our management with a means to analyze and improve their business, measuring segment profitability in relation to net asset investments.  We acknowledge that ROIC may not be calculated the same way by every company.  We compensate for this limitation by monitoring and providing to the reader a full GAAP income statement and balance sheet.
Readers are reminded that non-GAAP numbers are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures.  They should be read in conjunction with the GAAP financial measures.  It should be noted as well that our non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
The preliminary reconciliation of ROIC is estimated based on our current information.
Page 6


