FILE:A/A-8K-20071011203903.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Item 8.01.
Other Events.
             
 
We are filing this Current Report on Form 8-K for the purpose of incorporating the contents of this report in a prospectus of stock plans available to the employees of certain European Economic Area ("EEA") subsidiaries of Agilent Technologies, Inc. and any future registration statements we may file from time to time.
 
Transfer of Reportable Segment and Change in Methodology for Market and Sub-Market Data
 
.
As previously reported, in the beginning of the third quarter of 2007, we moved our nanotechnology measurement business from our electronic measurement segment to our bio-analytical measurement segment to more closely align with the new materials sciences business in that segment
 
In addition, the order and revenue information included in Management's Discussion and Analysis for the three years ended October 31, 2006, has been adjusted to reflect a new methodology for defining "communications test," "general purpose test," "life sciences" and "chemical analysis" as the markets and sub-markets into which our products are sold.
 
Pursuant to guidance provided by the Securities and Exchange Commission, we have recast in Exhibit 99.1 filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K the following items that were contained in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 31, 2006 ("Annual Report on Form 10-K"), to reflect the changes referenced above: Item 1, "Business," Item 7, "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" and Item 15, "Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules."  In addition, since it is the subject of the Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, we have included "Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting" in Item 8. It has not been changed from the disclosure in the Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
Further, we have recast in Exhibit 99.2 filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K the following items that were contained in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended January 31, 2007 ("First Quarter Report") to reflect the changes referenced above: Item 1, "Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited)" and Item 2 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations (Unaudited)."  We have also recast in Exhibit 99.3 filed with this Current Report on Form 8-K the following items that were contained in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 30, 2007 ("Second Quarter Report") to reflect the changes referenced above: Item 1, "Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements (Unaudited)" and Item 2 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and Results of Operations (Unaudited)."
 
business structure and the change in methodology for defining the markets and sub-markets for our products as specifically described above.
The recast included in the exhibits to this Current Report on Form 8-K reflect changes to the Annual Report on Form 10-K, First Quarter Report and Second Quarter Report as a result of the change in
This filing does not reflect any subsequent information or events other than adjustments to reflect the updated segment information in conjunction with the change in business structure and the change in methodology for defining the markets and sub-markets for our products as specifically described above.
 
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
             
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 23.1
 
CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Nos. 333-91121, 333-35016, 333-38080, 333-38194, 333-47024, 333-88864 and 333-116400) of  Agilent Technologies, Inc. of our report dated December 22, 2006, except with respect to our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, insofar as it relates to segment information in Note 23 as to which the date is October 11, 2007,relating to the financial statements, financial statement schedule, management's assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Agilent Technologies, Inc., which appears in this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
San Jose, California
October 11, 2007

Exhibit 99.1
 
Item 1.
      
Business
 
Overview
 
Agilent Technologies, Inc. ("we", "Agilent" or the "company"), incorporated in Delaware in May 1999, is the world's premier measurement company providing core bio-analytical and electronic measurement solutions to the communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis industries.
 
In August 2005, the Board of Directors of Agilent approved the divestiture of both our semiconductor products business and our semiconductor test solutions business. Both of these divestitures were completed during our most recent fiscal year. In December 2005, we completed the sale of our semiconductor products business to Avago Technologies Ltd. ("Avago") for approximately $2.6 billion in cash proceeds. On June 1, 2006, Agilent transferred substantially all of the assets and liabilities of its semiconductor test solutions business to a separate company, Verigy Ltd. ("Verigy"), then a wholly owned subsidiary of Agilent. In June and July 2006, Verigy sold approximately 8.7 million of its ordinary shares, or approximately 15 percent of its outstanding shares, in an initial public offering. On October 31, 2006, we distributed our remaining holding in Verigy to our stockholders.
 
We have reflected the semiconductor products business and the semiconductor test solutions business as discontinued operations for all periods presented in this Current Report on Form 8-K. For further information, see Note 3, "Discontinued Operations of Our Semiconductor Products Business" and Note 4, "Discontinued Operations of Our Semiconductor Test Solutions Business", to our consolidated financial statements.
 
We currently have two businesses, the electronic measurement business and the bio-analytical measurement business. Our electronic measurement business focuses on growth opportunities in the communications and electronics industries, while our bio-analytical measurement business focuses on core business and growth opportunities in the life sciences industry and in the environmental, chemical, food and petrochemical industries. In addition to our two businesses, we conduct centralized research through Agilent Technologies Laboratories. Each of our businesses, including Agilent Labs, is supported by our general infrastructure organization, which provides shared services in the areas of finance, information technology, legal, workplace services and human resources.
 
We sell our products primarily through direct sales, but we also utilize distributors, resellers, manufacturer's representatives, telesales and electronic commerce. Of our total net revenue of $4.97 billion for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2006, we generated 34 percent in the United States and 66 percent outside the U.S. As of October 31, 2006, we employed approximately 18,700 people worldwide. Our primary research, development and manufacturing sites are in California, Colorado, Delaware and Washington in the U.S. and in China, Germany, Japan, Malaysia, Singapore and the United Kingdom.
 
In the beginning of the third quarter of 2007, we moved the nanotechnology measurement from the electronics measurement segment to more closely align with the new materials sciences business in the bio-analytical measurement segment. All segment disclosures and numbers have been restated historically.
 
Net revenue for each of our businesses for the years ended October 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was:
 
Electronic Measurement Business
 
Our electronic measurement business provides standard and customized electronic measurement instruments and systems, monitoring, management and optimization tools for communications networks and services, software design tools and related services that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment and communications networks and services. Related services include start-up assistance, instrument productivity and application services and instrument calibration and repair. We also offer customization, consulting and optimization services throughout the customer's product lifecycle.
 
Our electronic measurement business employed approximately 11,490 people as of October 31, 2006. We sell our electronic measurement products through direct sales, distributors, resellers, manufacturer's representatives, telesales and electronic commerce. Our electronic measurement business generated $3.3 billion in revenue in fiscal 2006, $3.2 billion in revenue in fiscal 2005 and $3.1 billion in revenue in fiscal 2004.
 
Electronic Measurement Markets
 
Our electronic measurement products compete in the communications test market and the general purpose test market.
 
The Communications Test Market
 
We market our communications test products and services to handset manufacturers, network equipment manufacturers ("NEMs") and communications service providers. NEMs manufacture and sell products to facilitate the transmission of voice, data and video traffic. The NEMs' customers are the distributors of end-user subscriber devices, including wireless personal communication devices and set-top boxes, as well as communications service providers that deploy and operate the networks and services. To meet their customers' demands, NEMs require test and measurement instruments, systems and solutions for the development, production and installation of each network technology.
 
Communications service providers require reliable network equipment that enables their networks and services to operate at ever-faster speeds, offer a growing range of services permits an expanding capacity and provides quick feedback. To achieve this, communications service providers require a range of sophisticated test instruments and systems to evaluate network performance and to identify any sources of communications failure.
 
Agilent's communications service provider customers require advanced software and systems, known as operations support systems ("OSS"), to monitor and manage the network infrastructure and services on a continuous, proactive basis to achieve either regulated or customer-specified service levels.
 
The communications test market accounted for approximately 42 percent of revenue from our electronic measurement business in 2006.
 
The General Purpose Test Market
 
We market our general purpose test products and services to the electronics industry and other industries with significant electronic content such as the aerospace and defense industries. These electronics and electronics-dependent industries design, develop and manufacture a wide range of products, including those produced in high volumes, such as computers, computer peripherals, electronic components, consumer electronics, enterprise servers, storage networks and communications devices, and automotive electronics. The components, printed circuit assemblies and functional devices for these products may be designed, developed and manufactured by electronic components companies, by original equipment manufacturers or by contract manufacturers. For the development and timely commercialization of new technologies, manufacturers require state-of-the-art test instruments, systems and software design tools in order to design products for efficient and cost-effective manufacturing and to validate product performance in a variety of configurations and environments. They also demand automated functional test systems, which test an electronic device as if it were in use in its final environment.
 
Customers use our general purpose test solutions in development and manufacturing a wide variety of electronic components and systems. These include testing multiple parameters of printed circuit boards used in almost every electronic application; testing the electrical parameters of wafers used in the semiconductor manufacturing process; and testing of flat panel displays.
 
The general purpose test market accounted for approximately 58 percent of revenue from our electronic measurement business in 2006.
Electronic Measurement Products
 
We divide our electronic measurement products into communications test products and general purpose test products.
 
Communications Test Products
 
We sell communications test products and services for the following types of communications networks and systems: fiber optics networks, transport networks, broadband and data networks, wireless communications and microwave networks. In addition, we provide assistance with installation and maintenance of our products and operational support systems to enable network, service and customer assurance for network operators.
 
Our suite of fiber optic network test products measure and analyze a wide variety of critical optical and electrical parameters in fiber optic networks and their comprising components.
 
Components which can be tested include source lasers, optical amplifiers, filters and other passive components.
 
Our broadband and data network test products include our network analyzer and router testers. Our network analyzer product line helps to troubleshoot high-speed local area networks, wide area networks and asynchronous transfer mode networks. Router testers are used to develop and test the performance of enterprise and carrier-class routers.
 
Our wireless communications and microwave network products include radio frequency and microwave test instruments and electronic design automation software tools, which assist in the design and production of cellular handsets and base stations, as well as satellite and aerospace defense systems.
 
Our installation and maintenance assistance facilitates the installation, commission and activation of networks and services. We have a breadth of products for troubleshooting and maintaining optical, wireless, wireline and large-company networks.
 
Our operational support systems products manage performance and quality of network service and customer experience for broadband, data, wireless and converged networks and services.
 
General Purpose Test Products
 
We sell the following types of products into the general purpose test market: general purpose instruments, modular instruments and test software, digital design products, parametric test products, high frequency electronic design tools, electronics manufacturing test equipment and thin-film transistor array test equipment, nano-positioning systems, atomic-force microscopy and scanning probe microscopy.
 
General purpose instruments are used principally by engineers in research and development laboratories, manufacturing, calibration and service for measuring voltage, current, frequency, signal pulse width and other standard electronics measurements and include spectrum analyzers, network analyzers, signal generators, digitizing oscilloscopes, voltmeters, multimeters, frequency counters, bench and system power supplies, function generators and waveform synthesizers.
 
Modular instruments and test software are used by the designers and manufacturers of electronic devices as the building blocks of systems that can be configured for a wide variety of test applications, and changed as needed by a combination of modular hardware and software components. Examples include test systems for aviation systems maintenance and multi-function university labs.
 
Our digital design products are used by research and development engineers in the computer, communications and semiconductor industries to validate and verify the performance of digital product designs. These include simple digital control circuits, complex high-speed servers, high-performance oscilloscopes, logic analyzers, logic-signal sources and data generators. Digital product design opportunities include high-speed input/output connectivity in computer servers and hardware development for latest generation gaming consoles.
 
Our high-frequency electronic design automation software tools are used by radio frequency integrated circuit design engineers to model, simulate and analyze communications product designs at the circuit and system levels. The main products in this area represent well-established software platforms within the wireless and the aerospace and defense design industries. Our customers are also applying this technology more frequently to model signal integrity problems in digital design applications.
 
Our parametric test instruments and systems combine hardware technology and customizable system software and are used primarily to examine semiconductor wafers during the semiconductor manufacturing process.
Our electronic manufacturing test product categories are Automated Optical Inspection Products that enable automated visual inspection of printed circuit assemblies, Automated X-ray Inspection Products that provide a three-dimensional scan of printed circuit board assemblies to identify and isolate quality defects caused by the manufacturing process, Automated In-Circuit Testing Products that identify quality defects such as bad and incorrect parts that affect electrical performance and allow early repair of these defects, and Manufacturing Test System Software that provides common tools to enable customers to use information across the manufacturing line for effective process control, repair and test design.
 
Our thin-film transistor array tester products provide flat panel display (or FPD) manufacturers with test solutions in the rapidly growing FPD market. An array tester can provide significant cost savings by detecting defects early in the manufacturing process of FPDs.
 
Our nano-positioning products utilize very precise measurements (through laser interferometer technology) to ensure precise motion control and placement, used primarily in semiconductor manufacturing applications. Our products offer nanometer scale imaging and measurements in fluids, air and gases and are utilized in biotechnology, electrochemistry and materials science applications. The nano-positioning products were moved from the electronics measurement segment to the bio-analytical measurement segment in the beginning of the third quarter of 2007.
 
Electronic Measurement Customers
 
Agilent's electronic measurement customers include contract manufactures, handset manufacturers, network equipment manufacturers who design, develop, manufacture and install network equipment, and service providers who implement, maintain and manage communication networks and services. We also engage in collaborative relationships with contract manufacturers. Many of our customers purchase solutions across several of our major product lines for their different business units. As of the end of fiscal 2006, no single customer represented greater than 10 percent of the net revenue of the business.
 
The orders and revenues from many of the electronic measurement markets and product categories are seasonal, with our fourth quarter traditionally bringing larger volumes of business and our first quarter generally showing reduced volumes. This is especially true of products that we sell in the aerospace and defense industry as well as those that are linked to consumer spending, including some of our communications test equipment. However, the seasonal impact is tempered by the diversity of the electronic measurement business's products and customers, which span multiple industries.
 
Electronic Measurement Sales, Marketing and Support
 
We have a focused sales strategy, using a direct sales force, resellers, manufacturer's representatives and distributors to strengthen customer satisfaction. Our direct sales force is focused on identifying customer needs and recommending solutions involving the effective use and deployment of our equipment, services, systems and capabilities. Some members of our direct sales force focus on global accounts, providing uniform services on a worldwide basis. Others focus on our more complex products such as our OSS communications monitoring and management systems, where customers require intensive strategic consultation. Our sales force also specifically targets the contract manufacturer market by collaborating with original equipment manufacturers to specify that contract manufacturers use our test equipment, as well as marketing to contract manufacturers directly.
 
Our direct sales force consists of field engineers and systems engineers who have in-depth knowledge of the customers' business and technology needs. Our systems engineers provide a combination of consulting, systems integration and application and software engineering services and are instrumental in all stages of the sale, implementation and support of our complex systems and solutions.
 
To complement our direct sales force we have agreements with many channel partners around the world. These partners, including resellers, manufacturer's representatives, and distributors, serve Agilent's customers across a number of product lines and provide the same level of service and support expected from our direct channel. Lower volume transactions can also be served by our tele-sales and electronic commerce channels.
 
Our products typically come with standard warranties, and extended warranties are available for additional cost.
Electronic Measurement Manufacturing
 
We concentrate our electronic measurement manufacturing efforts primarily on final assembly and test of our products. To maximize our productivity and our ability to respond to market conditions, we use contract manufacturers for the production of printed circuit boards, sheet metal fabrication, metal die-casting, plastic molding and standard electronic components. We also manufacture proprietary devices and assemblies, in our own fabrication facilities for competitive advantage.
 
We generally only manufacture products when we have received firm orders for delivery and do not generally hold large stocks of finished inventory.
 
Electronic Measurement Competition
 
The market for electronic measurement equipment is highly competitive. Our electronic measurement business competes with a number of significant competitors in all our major product categories and across our targeted industries. In the general purpose test market, we compete against companies such as Applied Komatsu Technologies, Fluke Corporation (a subsidiary of Danaher Corporation), Keithley Instruments, Inc., LeCroy Corporation, National Instruments Corporation, Photon Dynamics, Inc., Shimadzu Corporation, Tektronix, Inc., Teradyne, Inc., and Wintest Corp. In the communications test market our primary competitors are Aeroflex Incorporated, Anritsu Corporation, Ansoft Corporation, APLAC Solutions Corporation, Applied Wave Research, Inc., EXFO Electro-Optical Engineering, Inc., a unit of IBM Software (formerly Micromuse, Inc.), Ixia, JDS Uniphase, Marconi Corporation plc, Rohde & Schwartz GmbH & Co. KG, Spirent plc and Tektronix, Inc.
 
Our electronic measurement business offers a wide range of products, and these products compete primarily on the basis of product quality and functionality, as well as performance and reliability.
 
Bio-Analytical Measurement Business
 
Our bio-analytical measurement business provides application-focused solutions that include instruments, software, consumables and services that enable customers to identify, quantify and analyze the physical and biological properties of substances and products. Our seven key product categories include: microarrays, microfluidics, gas chromatography, liquid chromatography, mass spectrometry, software and informatics, and related consumables and services.
 
We employed approximately 4,460 people as of October 31, 2006 in our bio-analytical measurement business. This business generated revenue of $1.7 billion in fiscal 2006, $1.5 billion in fiscal 2005, and $1.4 billion in fiscal 2004.
 
Bio-Analytical Measurement Markets
 
Primarily, our bio-analytical measurement business serves the following markets:
 
Life Sciences Markets
 
Our life science markets accounted for approximately 40 percent of revenue from our bio-analytical measurement business in 2006. Within the life sciences, we focus on the following three primary market categories:
 
    This market consists of "for-profit" companies who participate across the pharmaceutical value chain in the areas of: research, discovery & development, clinical trials, and manufacturing and quality assurance and quality control. One sub-segment of this market is the core and emerging pharmaceutical companies, or "Pharma". A second sub-segment includes biotechnology companies, or "biotech", contract research organizations, or "CROs", and contract manufacturing organizations, or "CMOs". Biotech and, to a somewhat lesser extent, CROs and CMOs typically participate in specific points in the Pharma industry value chain.
The Pharma, Biotech, CRO & CMO Market.
 
    This market consists primarily of "not-for-profit" organizations and includes academic institutions, large government institutes and privately funded organizations. The academic and government market plays an influential role in technology adoption and therapeutic developments for Pharma and molecular diagnostics companies. After decades of investment in basic biomedical research, the focus is widening to include translational research  multidisciplinary scientific efforts directed at "accelerating therapy development". Notable are efforts by the National Institute of Health, the National Cancer Institute, and EORTC (European Organization), EMBL (Europe), Singapore Genomics Institute, and National Translational Cancer Research Network (UK). In addition large donations by private foundations are also fueling growth in this key market segment.
The Academic and Government Market.
 
    The clinical diagnostic market is an emerging growth opportunity that could be addressed by leveraging existing platforms like microfluidics, microarrays, and liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry. The clinical diagnostic market is viewed by us as an area for strategic growth.
The Clinical Diagnostic Market.
Chemical Analysis Markets
 
Our chemical analysis markets accounted for approximately 60 percent of revenue from the bio-analytical measurement business in 2006. Within chemical analysis, we focus primarily on the following areas: petrochemical, environmental, homeland security and forensics, and bioagriculture and food safety.
 
    The natural gas and petroleum refining markets use our products to measure and control the quality of their finished products and to verify the environmental safety of their operations. Petroleum refiners use our measurement solutions to analyze crude oil composition, perform raw material analysis, verify and improve refining processes and ensure the overall quality of gasoline, fuels, lubricants and other products. Solutions based on gas chromotography, liquid chromotography and mass spectrometry products are also used in the development, manufacturing and quality control of fine chemicals. Our gas chromatographs are also used to monitor consistent quality in the delivery of natural gas.
The Petroleum and Chemical Market.
 
    Our gas chromatography, liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry solutions are used by the environmental market for applications such as laboratory and field analysis of chemical pollutants in air, water, soil and solid waste. Environmental industry customers include all levels of government, the industrial and manufacturing sectors, engineering and consulting companies, commercial testing laboratories and colleges and universities.
The Environmental Market.
 
    Our liquid chromatography, gas chromatography, mass spectrometry and microfluidics solutions are used by health and forensics laboratories in the U.S. and abroad, particularly in the analysis of evidence associated with crime or with the detection and identification of biological and chemical warfare agents. This instrumentation is either used in static or mobile laboratories. Customers include local, state, federal, and international law enforcement agencies and health laboratories.
The Forensics and Homeland Security Market.
 
    Food safety industries apply the same general technologies for chemical analysis as the pharmaceutical and environmental markets, including gas and liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry. For example, our mass spectrometer portfolio, including recently introduced liquid chromatography mass spectrometers, are used to analyze residual pesticides in food. Additionally, bioagriculture industries seek to improve crops and foods by conducting research on these organisms, as well as testing for genetically modified content, using microarray and microfluidics solutions.
The Bioagriculture and Food Safety Market.
 
Bio-Analytical Measurement Products
 
A key factor in all of our bio-analytical measurement target markets is the need for new products that increase customer productivity and provide high quality data that enable decision-making by our customers.
 
 Microarray Products
 
Since announcing the launch of our DNA microarray program for the life sciences in December 1999, we have become a leading supplier of microarray solutions which we sell primarily to pharmaceutical companies and biotechnology companies in our for-profit markets, as well as academic and government funded organizations in our not-for-profit markets. Using our refined inkjet manufacturing process, we make highly sensitive 60-mer oligonucleotide, or oligo, microarrays. This unique inkjet process is highly flexible and accurate, enabling the faster manufacture of high quality custom microarrays. In 2006, we expanded our line of microarrays to offer a new line of high-density arrays providing enhanced genomics solutions for a variety of applications.
 
 Microfluidics Products
 
The Agilent 2100 bioanalyzer is the first commercial microfluidics product for the analysis of a wide range of biological molecules, including DNA, RNA, proteins and cells. The bioanalyzer chips allow sample quality assessment to be done in a fraction of the usual time using fewer samples and reagents than traditional gel electrophoresis. We also provide related software, which enables the bioanalyzer to be used for the development and manufacture of protein-based therapeutics. The bioanalyzer is commonly used in genomics laboratories and has enabled the standardization of RNA quality measurement.
Gas Chromatography Products
 
Agilent is the world's leading provider of gas chromatographs, both laboratory and portable models. A gas chromatograph ("GC") is used to separate any gas, liquid or solid that can be vaporized and then detect the molecules present to determine their identity and quantity. We continue to expand the application space for our GCs with the development of new separation columns and product enhancements. Over the last three years, Agilent has introduced updated and advanced models of all of its major gas chromatography platforms.
 
Liquid Chromatography Products
 
A liquid chromatograph ("LC") or a high performance liquid chromatograph ("HPLC") is used to separate molecules of a liquid mixture to determine the quantity and identity of the molecules present. Used when sample vaporization is not an option, LC also separates and detects compounds to determine molecular identity and quantity. Our LC instruments are modular in construction and can be configured to form instruments that perform specific analyses. Agilent's HPLC system, the Agilent 1100 Series, has sold over 60,000 systems since its introduction, and this year was replaced by its successor, the 1200 Series LC. The 1200 Series is an advanced version which enables true "fast chromatography" through both pressure and temperature control. As a leader in liquid chromatography, we continue to expand our application space with new HPLC columns and ongoing product enhancements. Our latest innovation, HPLC-Chip, is fully commercialized and creating demand for nano LC solutions across many markets.
 
Mass Spectrometry Products
 
A mass spectrometer ("MS") identifies and quantifies chemicals based on a chemical's molecular mass and on characteristic patterns of fragment masses that result when a molecule is broken apart. Mass spectrometry is an important tool in analyzing proteins and other biological entities that undergo transformations because it enables the understanding and characterization of their many different states. MS systems are typically used in combination with gas or liquid chromatographs. In the past three years, Agilent significantly expanded its mass spectrometry portfolio with a focus on reliability, sensitivity and ease of use. This year, we introduced two new LC/MS platforms, the Agilent 6410 Triple Quadrapole MS and the 6510 Quadrapole-Time of Flight MS. These new platforms serve new and growing markets for Agilent.
 
Software and Informatics Products
 
We provide software for instrument control, data acquisition, data analysis, laboratory content and business process management, and informatics. Our software facilitates the regulatory-compliant use of instruments in pharmaceutical quality assurance/quality control environments. In 2005, we completed the acquisitions of Scientific Software, Inc. and Silicon Genetics, Inc., expanding our portfolio of chromatography data systems and providing an entry into bioinformatics. The integration of these companies into Agilent has expanded our portfolio and market opportunities.
 
Consumables and Services
 
We also offer a broad range of consumable products, which support our LC, GC and MS technology platforms. These consumable products include chemical standards, instrument replacement parts, brand-specific chromatography columns and consumable supplies to meet our customers' analysis needs. All of our products, which include generic and proprietary supplies, are designed to work together.
 
We offer a wide range of startup, operational, educational and compliance support services for our measurement and data handling systems. Our support services include maintenance, troubleshooting, repair and training for all of our chemical and bioinstrumentation analysis hardware and software products. Special service bundles have also been designed to meet the specific application needs of various industries.
 
Bio-Analytical Measurement Customers
 
We have roughly 21,000 customers, and as of the end of fiscal 2006, no single customer represented greater than 10 percent of the net revenue of the business. The bio-analytical measurement business is susceptible to seasonality in its orders and revenues primarily based on U.S. government and large pharmaceutical company budgets. The result is that our first and fourth fiscal quarters tend to deliver the strongest profits for this group. However, general economic trends, new product introductions and competition might overshadow this trend in any given year.
Bio-Analytical Measurement Sales, Marketing and Support
 
Our sales and support delivery channels are aligned by key markets. We market products to our customers through direct sales, electronic commerce, resellers, manufacturers' representatives and distributors. Additionally, we are optimizing our worldwide distribution capabilities to address high-growth opportunities such as the environmental, food safety and pharmaceutical markets in the Asia-Pacific region.
 
We use direct sales to market our solutions to all of our pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical accounts, large- and medium-sized chemical customers and environmental accounts. Sales agents supplement direct sales by providing broader geographic coverage and coverage of smaller accounts. Our active reseller program augments our ability to provide more complete solutions to our customers. We sell our consumable products through distributors, telesales and electronic commerce.
 
We deliver our support services to customers in a variety of ways, including on-site assistance with repair or exchange of returned products, telephone support and self-diagnostic services provided over the Internet. We also offer special industry-focused service bundles that are designed to meet the specific needs of hydrocarbon processing, environmental, pharmaceutical and biopharmaceutical customers to keep instruments fully operational and compliant with the respective industry requirements. Our products typically come with standard warranties, and extended warranties are available for additional cost.
 
Bio-Analytical Measurement Manufacturing
 
Our manufacturing supports our diverse product range and customer-centric focus. We assemble highly configurable products to individual customer orders and make standard products to stock. We employ advanced manufacturing techniques and supply chain management systems to reduce costs and manufacturing cycle times. We selectively use third parties to provide manufacturing capabilities outside our core competencies, such as the manufacture of printed circuit assemblies and the delivery of shipment logistics. We have manufacturing facilities in California and Delaware in the U.S., China, Germany and Japan. We utilize just-in-time manufacturing and so typically do not maintain a high level of inventory.
 
Bio-Analytical Measurement Competition
 
The markets for analytical instruments in which we compete are characterized by evolving industry standards and intense competition. Our principal competitors in the life sciences arena include: Affymetrix, Inc., Applied Biosystems Inc., GE Healthcare, Invitrogen Corp., Thermo Electron Corp. and Waters Corp. Our principal competitors in the chemical analysis arena include: Applied Biosystems Inc., Perkin Elmer Corp., Shimadzu Corporation, Thermo Electron Corp. and Varian, Inc. Agilent competes on the basis of price, product performance, reliability, support quality, applications expertise and global channel coverage.
 
Bio-Analytical Measurement Government Regulation
 
The analysis products and related consumables marketed by our chemical analysis business are subject to regulation in the U.S. by the Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") under the Toxic Substances Control Act and by government agencies in other countries under similar laws. The Toxic Substances Control Act regulations govern, among other things, the testing, manufacture, processing and distribution of chemicals, the testing of regulated chemicals for their effects on human health and safety and import and export of chemicals. The Toxic Substances Control Act prohibits persons from manufacturing any chemical in the U.S. that has not been reviewed by EPA for its effect on health and safety, and placed on an EPA inventory of chemical substances. Therefore, we must continually adapt our chemical analysis products to changing regulations. If we fail to comply with the notification, record-keeping and other requirements in the manufacture or distribution of our products, the EPA can obtain an order from a court that would prohibit the further distribution or marketing of a product that does not comply or we could face fines, civil penalties or criminal prosecution.
 
Agilent Technologies Laboratories
 
Agilent Labs is our central research organization based in Santa Clara, California, with satellite offices in Beijing, China; Everett, Washington; Leuven, Belgium; and South Queensferry, Scotland. Agilent Labs engages primarily in two types of research: 1) applied research that leads to technology that can be transferred to our existing businesses in communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis, and 2) research that creates new businesses that are outside of our current markets but within our fields of interest. Agilent Labs also provides technology integration across our company.
Agilent Labs employs approximately 200 people. Agilent Labs' technical staff have advanced degrees that cover a wide range of scientific fields, such as biology, bioinformatics, chemistry, computer science, distributed measurement, electrical engineering, image processing, materials science, mathematics, measurement software, optics, physics, physiology, semiconductor device design and signal processing.
 
General Infrastructure Organization
 
We provide support to our businesses through our general infrastructure and shared services organization. This support includes services in the areas of finance, legal, workplace services, human resources and information technology. These organizations are generally headquartered in Santa Clara, California, with services provided worldwide. As of the end of October 2006, our general infrastructure and shared services organizations employed approximately 2,750 people, which includes 200 Agilent Labs employees.
 
The following discussions of Research and Development, Backlog, Intellectual Property, Materials, Environmental, International Operations and Acquisition and Disposal of Material Assets include information common to each of our businesses.
 
Research and Development
 
Research and development ("R&D") expenditures were $655 million in 2006, $650 million in 2005 and $599 million in 2004, the vast majority of which was company-sponsored. We anticipate that we will continue to have significant R&D expenditures in order to maintain our competitive position with a continuing flow of innovative, high-quality products and services.
 
Backlog
 
At October 31, 2006, our unfilled orders for the electronic measurement business amounted to approximately $700 million, as compared to approximately $670 million at October 31, 2005. At October 31, 2006, our unfilled orders for the bio-analytical measurement business were approximately $260 million, as compared to approximately $180 million at October 31, 2005. We expect that a large majority of the unfilled orders for both businesses will be delivered to customers within nine months. On average, our unfilled orders represent approximately two months' worth of revenues. In light of this experience, backlog on any particular date, while indicative of short-term revenue performance, is not necessarily a reliable indicator of medium or long-term revenue performance.
 
Intellectual Property
 
Our general policy has been to seek patent and other intellectual property protection for those inventions and improvements likely to be incorporated into our products and services or to give us a competitive advantage. While we believe that our licenses, patents and applications have value, in general no single patent or license is in itself material. In addition, there can be no assurance that any of our proprietary rights will not be challenged, invalidated or circumvented, or that our rights will provide significant competitive advantages.
 
Materials
 
Our manufacturing operations employ a wide variety of semiconductors, electromechanical components and assemblies and raw materials such as plastic resins and sheet metal. Both our electronic and bio-analytical measurement businesses purchase materials from thousands of suppliers on a global basis. No single supplier is material, although some of the parts that require custom design work are not readily available from alternate suppliers due to their unique design or the length of time necessary for design work. Our long-term relationships with suppliers allow us to proactively manage technology road maps and product discontinuance plans and monitor their financial health. Even so, some suppliers may still extend their lead times, limit supplies, increase prices or cease to produce necessary parts for our products. If these are unique components, we may not be able to find a substitute quickly or at all. To address the potential disruption in our supply chain, we use a number of techniques, including qualifying multiple sources of supply, redesign of products for alternative components. In addition, while we generally attempt to keep our inventory at minimal levels, we do purchase of incremental inventory for supply buffer as circumstances warrant to protect the supply chain.
Environmental
 
Our R&D, manufacturing and distribution operations involve the use of hazardous substances and are regulated under international, federal, state and local laws governing health and safety and the environment. We apply strict standards for protection of the environment and worker health and safety to sites inside and outside the U.S., even if not subject to regulation imposed by foreign governments. We believe that our properties and operations at our facilities comply in all material respects with applicable environmental laws and worker health and safety laws. However, the risk of environmental liabilities cannot be completely eliminated and there can be no assurance that the application of environmental and health and safety laws to Agilent will not require us to incur significant expenditures. We are also regulated under a number of international, federal, state and local laws regarding recycling, product packaging and product content requirements. These laws are gradually becoming more stringent and may in the future cause us to incur significant expenditures.
 
Some of our operations are located on properties that are known to have subsurface contamination undergoing remediation by HP. As part of our spin-off from HP in 1999, HP has agreed to retain the liability for the contamination, perform the required remediation and indemnify us with respect to claims arising out of the contamination. The determination of the existence and cost of any additional contamination caused by us could involve costly and time-consuming negotiations and litigation. While we expect that HP will meet its remediation and indemnification obligations in this regard, there can be no guarantee that it will do so. Under our agreement with HP, HP will have access to these properties to perform the remediation. HP has agreed to minimize interference with on-site operations at those properties during the course of the remediation, but there can be no guarantee that our operations will not be interrupted or that we will not be required to incur unreimbursed costs associated with the remediation. Remediation could also harm on-site operations and the future use and value of the properties.
 
In addition, some of these properties are undergoing remediation by HP under an order of an agency of the state in which the property is located. Although HP has agreed to indemnify us with respect to that subsurface contamination, it is possible that one or more of the governmental agencies will require us to be named on any of these orders. The naming of Agilent will not affect HP's obligation to indemnify us with regard to these matters.
 
We are liable and are indemnifying HP for any contamination found at all facilities transferred to us by HP excluding the properties undergoing remediation. In addition, we are indemnifying HP for any liability associated with past non-compliance with environmental laws regulating ongoing operations at all properties transferred to us by HP, as well as at sold or discontinued businesses that are related to our businesses. While we are not aware of any material liabilities associated with such indemnified matters, there is no guarantee that such contamination or regulatory non-compliance does not exist, and will not expose us to material liability in the future.
 
We are being indemnified by HP with respect to all environmental liabilities for which HP accrued a reserve, and we are not aware of any material environmental liabilities being assumed by us which are not subject to the indemnity.
 
International Operations
 
Our net revenue originating outside the U.S., as a percentage of our total net revenue, was approximately 66 percent in fiscal 2006, 64 percent in fiscal 2005 and 65 percent in fiscal 2004, the majority of which was from customers other than foreign governments. Approximately 13 percent of our annual revenues in each of the last three years was derived from Japan. Revenues from external customers are generally attributed to countries based upon the location of the Agilent sales representative.
 
Long-lived assets located outside of the U.S., as a percentage of our total long-lived assets, was approximately 55 percent in fiscal year 2006, 50 percent in fiscal year 2005 and 54 percent in fiscal year 2004. Approximately 19, 17 and 16 percent of our long-lived assets were located in Japan in fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively.
 
Most of our sales in international markets are made by foreign sales subsidiaries. In countries with low sales volumes, sales are made through various representatives and distributors. However, we also sell into international markets directly from the U.S.
 
Our international business is subject to risks customarily encountered in foreign operations, including interruption to transportation flows for delivery of parts to us and finished goods to our customers, changes in a specific country's or region's political or economic conditions, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, consequences from changes in tax laws and regulatory requirements, difficulty in staffing and managing widespread operations, differing labor regulations, differing protection of intellectual property and geopolitical turmoil, including terrorism and war. We are also exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk inherent in our sales commitments, anticipated sales and expenses, and assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the local functional currency, and may also become subject to interest rate risk inherent in any debt we incur, or investment and finance receivable portfolios we hold. The U.S. and international community's response to recent terrorist activities could exacerbate these risks. For example, there may be an
increased risk of political unrest in regions where we have significant manufacturing operations such as Southeast Asia. However, we believe that our international diversification provides stability to our worldwide operations and reduces the impact on us of adverse economic changes in any single country. Financial information about our international operations is contained in Note 23, "Segment Information", to our consolidated financial statements.
 
Acquisition and Disposal of Material Assets
 
On November 28, 2005, we completed the sale of our stake in Lumileds Lighting International, B.V. ("Lumileds") to Philips pursuant to a Share Purchase Agreement (the "Share Purchase Agreement") dated as of August 12, 2005 among Agilent, Agilent LED International, Philips Lumileds Holding B.V. and Philips. Under the terms of the Share Purchase Agreement, Agilent received $949 million in cash proceeds, as well as approximately $51 million in repayment of outstanding advances to Lumileds and interest due to Agilent.
 
In December 2005, we completed the sale of substantially all the assets of our semiconductor products business to Avago pursuant to an Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of August 14, 2005 and amended November 30, 2005 (the "Asset Purchase Agreement"). Under the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement, Agilent received approximately $2.6 billion in cash proceeds.
 
On October 31, 2006, we distributed Agilent's equity interest in Verigy by means of a dividend to our stockholders. Prior to the distribution, on June 1, 2006, Agilent transferred substantially all of the assets and liabilities of its semiconductor test solutions business to Verigy, then a wholly owned subsidiary of Agilent. In June and July 2006, Verigy sold approximately 8.7 million of its ordinary shares, or approximately 15 percent of its outstanding shares, in an initial public offering. On October 31, 2006, the aggregate market value of the Verigy shares which were distributed was $840 million.
Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations
 
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Current Report on Form 8-K. This report contains forward-looking statements including, without limitation, statements regarding trends, seasonality, cyclicality and growth in the markets we sell into, our strategic direction, our future effective tax rate and tax valuation allowance, earnings from our foreign subsidiaries, remediation activities, new product and service introductions, changes to our manufacturing processes, the use of contract manufacturers, the impact of local government regulations on our ability to pay vendors or conduct operations, our liquidity position, our ability to generate cash from continuing operations, growth in our businesses, our investments, the potential impact of adopting new accounting pronouncements, our financial results, our purchase commitments, our contributions to our pension plans, the selection of discount rates and recognition of any gains or losses for our benefit plans, our cost-control activities, savings and headcount reduction recognized from our restructuring programs and the divestiture of our semiconductor products and semiconductor test businesses, our stock repurchase program, our transition to lower-cost regions, the existence or length of an economic recovery that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to various factors, including those discussed in Item 1A and elsewhere in this Form 8-K.
 
Reclassifications
 
Amounts in the consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended October 31, 2005 and October 31, 2004 have been reclassified to conform to the presentation used in 2006. See Note 3, "Discontinued Operations of our Semiconductor Products Business" and Note 4, "Discontinued Operations of our Semiconductor Test Solutions Business", to our consolidated financial statements for further information regarding the reclassification of financial information for discontinued operations. See Note 7, "Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliate and Gain on Sale  Lumileds" to our consolidated financial statements for reclassification of equity in net income.
 
Overview and Executive Summary
 
Agilent, incorporated in Delaware in May 1999, is the world's premier measurement company, providing core bio-analytical and electronic measurement solutions to the communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis industries. Prior to our initial public offering of 16 percent of our stock in November 1999, we were a wholly-owned subsidiary of Hewlett-Packard Company ("HP"). HP distributed the remaining 84 percent of our stock to its stockholders on June 2, 2000 in the form of a stock dividend.
 
Our fiscal year end is October 31. Unless otherwise stated, all years and dates refer to our fiscal year.
 
Agilent currently has two businesses focused on bio-analytical measurement and electronic measurement. During the past year, we divested two of our historical businesses, the semiconductor products business and the semiconductor test solutions business. In December 2005, we sold the semiconductor products business and recorded a gain of approximately $1.8 billion. In October 2006, we completed the distribution to our stockholders of our semiconductor test solutions business. We have reflected both the semiconductor products business and the semiconductor test solutions business as discontinued operations for all periods presented in this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Agilent's net revenue from continuing operations in 2006 was $4,973 million, an increase of 6 percent in comparison to 2005. In our bio-analytical business, net revenue in 2006 increased 10 percent in comparison to 2005. Demand increased across all markets in bio-analytical measurement with strongest growth occurring in biotechnology solutions. In our electronic measurement business, net revenue in 2006 increased 4 percent in comparison to 2005. The electronic measurement business saw growth in our general purpose segments, led by aerospace /defense and semiconductor design and manufacturing. Agilent's total net revenue in 2005 increased 3 percent in comparison to 2004.
 
Net income in 2006 was $3,307 million, which included the income from and gain on sale of our semiconductor products business for $1,816 million and the sale of our investment in Lumileds for a gain of $901 million. Net income in 2005 was $327 million, a decrease of 11 percent in comparison to $369 million in 2004. The decrease in total net income for 2005 was driven by a $174 million decrease in net income associated with discontinued operations offset by a $132 million increase in net income from continuing operations.
In 2006, we generated operating cash flows of $431 million and had a cash and cash equivalent balance as of October 31, 2006 of $2,262 million. In 2005, we generated operating cash flows of $656 million and had a cash and cash equivalent balance as of October 31, 2005 of $2,226 million.
 
The following significant events were accomplished in fiscal year 2006:
 
 - 
                 
In November 2005, we finalized the sale of our investment in Lumileds to Philips for $949 million plus the repayment of $51 million of the outstanding principal debt and interest due to us.
 
 - 
                 
In December 2005, we sold our semiconductor products business to Avago. We received approximately $2.6 billion in cash proceeds.
 
 - 
                 
In October 2006, we completed the spin-off of our semiconductor test solutions business. The aggregate market value of ordinary shares distributed to Agilent stockholders was approximately $840 million.
 
 - 
                 
In June 2006, we completed a stock repurchase program of $4.466 billion of our common stock and in September 2006 we commenced another stock repurchase program for up to $2.0 billion dollars, to be completed over the next 2 years.
 
 - 
                 
We completed the actions necessary to reduce our infrastructure costs by approximately $450 million.
 
Having completed the disposal of two semiconductor-related businesses, Agilent is less exposed to the highly cyclical semiconductor market. Therefore, we expect that Agilent's current operating model will experience lower cyclicality in revenue and costs than we experienced in prior years. Looking forward, we are mindful of the economic uncertainties in the year ahead and Agilent's focus is to leverage, through higher sustainable growth, the more stable operating model we've built. Our goal is to grow our revenue at a faster rate than the electronic measurement and bio-analytical measurement markets, primarily through increasing market share and complementary acquisitions which will add to our top line growth.
 
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
 
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on management's best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the company in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates. Our critical accounting policies are those that affect our financial statements materially and involve difficult, subjective or complex judgments by management. Those policies are revenue recognition, restructuring and asset impairment charges, inventory valuation, investment impairments, share-based compensation, retirement and post-retirement plan assumptions, valuation of long-lived assets and accounting for income taxes.
 
We enter into agreements to sell products (hardware or software), services, and other arrangements (multiple element arrangements) that include combinations of products and services. Revenue from product sales, net of trade discounts and allowances, is recognized provided that persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred, the price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. Delivery is considered to have occurred when title and risk of loss have transferred to the customer. Revenue is reduced for estimated product returns, when appropriate. For sales that include customer-specified acceptance criteria, revenue is recognized after the acceptance criteria have been met. For products that include installation, if the installation meets the criteria to be considered a separate element, product revenue is recognized upon delivery, and recognition of installation revenue occurs when the installation is complete. Otherwise, neither the product nor the installation revenue is recognized until the installation is complete. Revenue from services is deferred and recognized over the contractual period or as services are rendered and accepted by the customer. When arrangements include multiple elements, we use objective evidence of fair value to allocate revenue to the elements and recognize revenue when the criteria for revenue recognition have been met for each element. The amount of product revenue recognized is affected by our judgments as to whether an arrangement includes multiple elements and if so, whether vendor-specific objective evidence of fair value exists for those elements. Changes to the elements in an arrangement and the ability to establish vendor-specific objective evidence for those elements could affect the timing of the revenue recognition. Most of these conditions are subjective and actual results could vary from the estimated outcome, requiring future adjustments to revenue.
Revenue recognition.
The three main components of our restructuring plans are related to workforce reductions, the consolidation of excess facilities and asset impairments. Workforce reduction charges are accrued when it is determined that a liability has been incurred, which is generally after individuals have been notified of their termination dates and expected severance payments. Plans to consolidate excess facilities result in charges for lease termination fees and future commitments to pay lease charges, net of estimated future sublease income. We recognize charges for consolidation of excess facilities when we have vacated the premises. These estimates were derived using the guidance of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets" ("SFAS No. 144"), Staff Accounting Bulletin 100, "Restructuring and Impairment Charges" ("SAB 100"), Emerging Issues Task Force 94-3, "Liability Recognition for Costs to Exit an Activity (Including Certain Costs Incurred in a Restructuring)" ("EITF 94-3") and lastly, SFAS No. 146 "Accounting for Exit or Disposal Activities" ("SFAS No. 146"). If the amounts and timing of cash flows from restructuring activities are significantly different from what we have estimated, the actual amount of restructuring and asset impairment charges could be materially different, either higher or lower, than those we have recorded.
Restructuring and asset impairment charges.
 
We assess the valuation of our inventory on a quarterly basis and periodically write down the value for estimated excess and obsolete inventory based upon estimates about future demand and actual usage. Such estimates are difficult to make under most economic conditions. The excess balance determined by this analysis becomes the basis for our excess inventory charge. Our marketing department plays a key role in our excess inventory review process by providing updated sales forecasts, managing product rollovers and working with manufacturing to maximize recovery of excess inventory. If actual market conditions are less favorable than those projected by management, additional write-downs may be required. If actual market conditions are more favorable than anticipated, inventory previously written down may be sold to customers, resulting in lower cost of sales and higher income from operations than expected in that period.
Inventory valuation.
 
We recognize an impairment charge when the decline in the fair value of our publicly traded equity securities and our cost-method investments below their cost basis are judged to be other-than-temporary. Significant judgment is used to identify events or circumstances that would likely have a significant adverse effect on the future use of the investment. We consider various factors in determining whether an impairment is other-than-temporary, including the severity and duration of the impairment, forecasted recovery, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investee, and our ability and intent to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in market value.
Investment impairments.
 
We account for share-based awards in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), Shared-Based Payment ("SFAS No. 123(R)") which was effective November 1, 2005 for Agilent. Under the new standard, share-based compensation expense is primarily based on estimated grant date fair value which is generally using the Black-Scholes option pricing model and is recognized on a straight-line basis for awards granted after November 1, 2005 over the vesting period of the award. For awards issued prior to November 1, 2005, we recognize share-based compensation expense based on FASB Interpretation 28 "Accounting for Stock Appreciation Rights and Other Variable Stock Option or Award Plans an interpretation of APB Opinions No. 15 and 25", which provides for accelerated expensing. Our estimate of share-based compensation expense requires a number of complex and subjective assumptions including our stock price volatility, employee exercise patterns (expected life of the options), future forfeitures and related tax effects. We consider several factors in estimating the expected life of our options granted, including the expected lives used by a peer group of companies and the historical option exercise behavior of our employees, which we believe are representative of future behavior. We estimate the stock price volatility using the implied volatility of Agilent's publicly traded stock options. We have determined that implied volatility is more reflective of market conditions and a better indicator of expected volatility than a combined method of determining volatility. The assumptions used in calculating the fair value of share-based awards represent our best estimates, but these estimates involve inherent uncertainties and the application of management judgment. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made are reasonable and appropriate, changes in assumptions could materially impact our reported financial results.
Share-based compensation.
 
Retirement and post-retirement benefit plan costs are a significant cost of doing business. They represent obligations that will ultimately be settled sometime in the future and therefore are subject to estimation. Pension accounting is intended to reflect the recognition of future benefit costs over the employees' average expected future service to Agilent based on the terms of the plans and investment and funding decisions. To estimate the impact of these future payments and our decisions concerning funding of these obligations, we are required to make assumptions using actuarial concepts within the framework of accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. Two critical assumptions are the discount rate and the expected long-term return on plan assets. Other important assumptions include the health care cost trend rate, expected future salary increases, expected future increases to benefit payments, expected retirement dates, employee turnover, retiree mortality rates, and portfolio composition. We evaluate these assumptions at least annually.
Retirement and post-retirement benefit plan assumptions.
 
The discount rate is used to determine the present value of future benefit payments at the measurement date  October 31 for U.S. plans and September 30 for non-U.S plans. For U.S. plans, the discount rate was determined by matching the expected plan benefit payments against the cash flows from a hypothetically constructed portfolio of high quality corporate bonds. The average yield of this hypothetical bond portfolio was used as a proxy for setting the discount rate. The discount rate
increased slightly over the prior year to 6.0 percent. Lower discount rates increase present values and subsequent year pension expense; higher discount rates decrease present values and subsequent year pension expense. The discount rate for non-U.S. plans was generally based on published rates for high quality corporate bonds. In recent years, decreasing interest rates, particularly outside the U.S., have increased our benefit obligations and our net plan costs. These increases have been in large part offset by a declining number of plan participants as a result of our various restructuring programs. The entire impact of declining discount rates is not recognized immediately under current accounting standards. As of October 31, 2006, delayed recognition of the impact of declining discount rates was the primary factor in approximately $297 million in unrecognized actuarial losses for non-U.S. plans. These losses are being recognized over the expected average future service lives of plan participants ranging from 12 to 18 years depending on the plan.
 
The expected long-term return on plan assets is estimated using current and expected asset allocations, as well as historical and expected returns. As of October 31, 2006, delayed recognition of better than expected investment performance was a significant factor in $63 million of unrecognized actuarial gains for U.S. plans. These gains will be recognized over approximately 12 years or the expected average future service life for U.S. plan participants. A one percent change in the estimated long-term return on plan assets for 2006 would result in a $6 million impact on U.S. pension expense and a $15 million impact on non-U.S. pension expense.
 
The net periodic pension and post-retirement benefit costs recorded in continuing operations were $81 million in 2006, $106 million in 2005 and $122 million in 2004. Due to final payouts from our Excess Plan in the U.S. in the first quarter of 2007, we expect a settlement under SFAS No. 88, Employers Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits. We cannot currently estimate this impact.
 
We performed our annual goodwill impairment analysis in the fourth quarter of 2006. Based on our estimates of forecasted discounted cash flows and our market capitalization at that time, we concluded that our goodwill was not impaired. We have also assessed the recoverability of our long-lived assets, by determining whether the carrying value of such assets will be recovered through undiscounted future cash flows. Asset impairments primarily consist of property, plant and equipment and are based on an estimate of the amounts and timing of future cash flows related to the expected future remaining use and ultimate sale or disposal of buildings and equipment net of costs to sell. During 2006, we incurred $42 million of asset impairment charges, which includes approximately $3 million recorded in discontinued operations. In addition, we recorded $1 million of investment impairment charges during 2006.
Valuation of long-lived assets.
 
The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill and other intangibles is highly subjective and requires significant judgment. We estimate expected future cash flows of our various businesses, which operate in a number of markets and geographical regions. We then determine the carrying value of these businesses. We exercise judgment in assigning and allocating certain assets and liabilities to these businesses. We then compare the carrying value including goodwill and other intangibles to the discounted future cash flows. If the total of future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the assets, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of the assets. Estimates of the future cash flows associated with the assets are critical to these assessments. Changes in these estimates based on changed economic conditions or business strategies could result in material impairment charges in future periods.
 
The process of evaluating the potential impairment of long-lived assets such as our property, plant and equipment is also highly subjective and requires significant judgment. In order to estimate the fair value of long-lived assets, we typically make various assumptions about the future prospects for the business that the asset relates to, consider market factors specific to that business and estimate future cash flows to be generated by that business. Based on these assumptions and estimates, we determine whether we need to take an impairment charge to reduce the value of the asset stated on our balance sheet to reflect its estimated fair value. Assumptions and estimates about future values and remaining useful lives are complex and often subjective. They can be affected by a variety of factors, including external factors such as the real estate market, industry and economic trends, and internal factors such as changes in our business strategy and our internal forecasts. Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made in the past have been reasonable and appropriate, changes in assumptions and estimates could materially impact our reported financial results.
 
Significant management judgment is required in determining our provision for income taxes and in determining whether deferred tax assets will be realized in full or in part. When it is more likely than not that all or some portion of specific deferred tax assets such as net operating losses or foreign tax credit carryforwards will not be realized, a valuation allowance must be established for the amount of the deferred tax assets that cannot be realized. Realization is based on our ability to generate sufficient future taxable income. During 2003, we established valuation allowances for the deferred tax assets of the U.S. and selected entities in foreign jurisdictions. The valuation allowance was determined in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 109 which requires an assessment of both positive and negative evidence when determining whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets are recoverable. Such assessment is required on a jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction
Accounting for income taxes.
 
basis. Cumulative losses incurred in the U.S. and selected entities in foreign jurisdictions in recent years represented sufficient negative evidence, which made it difficult for positive evidence to overcome. Accordingly, a full valuation allowance was recorded in all instances. We intend to maintain a full valuation allowance until sufficient positive evidence exists to support reversal of the valuation allowance. Profits or losses incurred in the U.S. and selected entities in foreign jurisdictions affect the ongoing amount of the valuation allowance. We expect that the effective tax rate applied to our pre-tax income in fiscal 2007 will be lower than it otherwise would be because future income taxes in the U.S. and selected entities in foreign jurisdictions will be offset by adjustments to the valuation allowance to effectively eliminate any tax expense or benefit in those jurisdictions. Income taxes will continue to be recorded for various jurisdictions subject to the need for valuation allowances in those jurisdictions.
 
We have not provided for U.S. federal income and foreign withholding taxes on the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries because we intend to reinvest such earnings indefinitely. Should we decide to remit this income to the U.S. in a future period, our provision for income taxes may increase materially in that period.
 
The calculation of our tax liabilities involves dealing with uncertainties in the application of complex tax law and regulations in a multitude of jurisdictions. We recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues in the U.S. and other tax jurisdictions based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest will be due. If our estimate of income tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would be required. If events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary.
 
Restructuring and Asset Impairment
 
We initiated several restructuring plans in prior periods: the 2001 Plan, the 2002 Plan and the 2003 Plan ("Prior Plans"). The workforce reduction portion of the Prior Plans was completed during fiscal year 2005. In the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2005, due to the then pending divestitures of our semiconductor products and semiconductor test businesses, we launched a new restructuring plan ("2005 Plan") to reduce our workforce and facility footprint to match a smaller organizational size.
 
In 2006 we continued execution of the 2005 plan and recorded restructuring and asset impairment charges of $186 million, of which $111 million was for workforce reduction expenses and the remainder for facility impairment and lease termination expenses. As of October 31, 2006, our accrual for pending workforce reduction costs was $13 million, which is down from the $44 million balance from the prior year as the workforce reduction program winds down. Our accrual for the consolidation of excess facilities, however, increased $9 million from the prior year due to significant facility consolidation efforts that were initiated during the past year. The workforce reduction portion of the 2005 plan is expected to be substantially completed in fiscal year 2007, but we will continue to make lease payments on some of our excess facility space for approximately the next five years.
 
The restructuring accrual is recorded in other accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet. For further details on our restructuring plans, see Note 19, "Restructuring and Asset Impairment", to our consolidated financial statements.
 
Foreign Currency
 
Our revenues, costs and expenses, and monetary assets and liabilities are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our global operating and financing activities. We hedge revenues, expenses and balance sheet exposures that are not denominated in the functional currencies of our subsidiaries on a short term and anticipated basis. We do experience some fluctuations within individual lines of the consolidated statement of operations and balance sheet because our hedging program is not designed to offset the currency movements in each category of revenues, expenses, monetary assets and liabilities. Our hedging program is designed to hedge currency movements on a relatively short-term basis (rolling twelve month period). Therefore, we are exposed to currency fluctuations over the longer term. For example, over the last three years the U.S dollar has weakened against the Euro and the British pound and although we successfully hedged currency movements in those currencies each year, we have experienced a net increase in reported expenses in Europe as a result of currency fluctuations over this time period.
Results from Continuing Operations
 
The following discussion excludes our semiconductor products business and our semiconductor test solutions business as their results are reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented in this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
In the beginning of the third quarter of 2007, we moved the nanotechnology measurement business from the electronics measurement segment to the bio-analytical measurement segment to more closely align with the new materials sciences business in that segment. All historical segment numbers have been recast to conform to this change in reportable segments.
 
Income from continuing operations in 2006 was $1,437 million, which included the gain on sale of our Lumileds investment of $901 million. In 2005, we recorded $191 million in income from continuing operations compared to $59 million recorded in 2004.
 
Orders and Net Revenue
 
 
 
Net revenue in 2006 was $4,973 million, a 6 percent increase over the $4,685 million net revenue recorded in 2005. Net revenue in 2005 was $4,685 million, a 3 percent increase over the $4,556 million net revenue recorded in 2004.
 
Bio-analytical measurement results were consistent with our normal seasonal pattern and reflected increased demand across virtually all of our markets. Our bio-analytical business is comprised of two areas, life science and chemical analysis. In life science, growth was due to demand from biotechnology customers and the impact of new product introduction in LC, LCMS and microarrays. In chemical analysis growth was driven by demand for environmental and food testing solutions.. Our electronic measurement business saw a 4 percent revenue growth, solid profitability, and good return on invested capital. Growth was driven by underlying customer demand in several key markets, including semiconductor design and verification, and consumer electronics design and manufacturing. However, growth was negatively impacted because of two factors: First, capital spending in the wireline segment was constrained by mergers in the customer base (both NEMs and communication service providers) as well as uncertainty in service providers' investments as they transition from fixed-line to IP-based networks and services. Second, we had a slowdown in our wireless monitoring business, as the industry transitions from 2G to 3G networks amid stronger competition.
 
Services and other revenue includes revenue generated from servicing our installed base of products, warranty extensions and consulting. In 2006 and 2005, services and other revenue increased over the prior years as our installed base of products increased and a change in standard warranty from three years to one year drove a higher volume of extended warranty business.
 
Costs and Expenses
 
The following tables present the gross inventory charges and sales of previously reserved inventory, respectively:
 
 
 
 
Unallocated charges primarily relate to inventory write-downs for exited product lines, which management has not reflected in segment results.
(1)
          
 
In 2006, total gross margin increased 3 percentage points in comparison to 2005. This improvement was the result of volume increases and cost efficiencies, in particular, restructuring activities, material cost reductions and overall operational improvements. In addition, we benefited from the refunctionalization of some general corporate expenses out of costs of products and services and into operating expense, which is consistent with our current less manufacturing-intensive operations following the disposal of our semiconductor products and semiconductor test solutions businesses. In 2005, total gross margin increased 3 percentage points in comparison to 2004. The increase was attributable to our efforts to lower our cost structure and refine our operating model. In 2005, we benefited from a more variable cost structure through use of contract manufacturers and we reduced manufacturing costs by shifting production to lower-cost regions. These benefits continued through 2006.
 
Operating margins in 2006 increased 4 percentage points as compared to 2005 due to continued restructuring activities and tighter controls on spending. In 2005 operating margin increased 4 percentage points compared to 2004. This was primarily due to savings from our restructuring efforts and a decrease in restructuring costs for research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses in 2005 compared to 2004.
 
Our research and development efforts focus on potential new products and product improvements covering a wide variety of technologies, none of which is individually significant to our operations. We conduct five types of research and development: basic research, which contributes to the fundamental understanding of areas critical to our future; foundation technologies, which enables fundamental advances across all businesses; communications, which creates technologies to enable pervasive access to information; life sciences, which enables next-generation pharmaceuticals and improved patient outcomes; and measurement, which provides critical advances in test and measurement electronics and systems. Our research seeks to improve on various technical competencies in electronics such as compound semiconductor devices, digital imaging systems and microfabrication technologies; software, systems and solutions such as applied mathematics, knowledge management and measurement science; life sciences such as computational biology, molecular diagnostics and high-throughput measurements; and photonics, such as precision automation technology, optical switching and high-speed optical links. In each of these research fields, we conduct research that is focused on specific product development for release in the short-term as well as other research that is intended to be the foundation for future products over a longer time-horizon. Some of our product development research is designed to improve on the more than 20,000 products already in production, other research is on major new product releases, and yet other focused on developing new product segments for the future. Because of the large number of new and existing products and research and development projects across all of our businesses, it is difficult to quantify the impact of any specific products or projects either in the periods presented or on a forward looking basis.
 
Income from continuing operations in 2006 was $1,437 million, which includes a gain of $901 million for the sale of our investment in Lumileds, an equity investment. The remaining increase in income from continuing operations, in comparison to the prior year, is attributable to an increase in revenue of $288 million, an increase in net interest income of $64 million and also attributable to the gain recorded in connection with the sale of two properties located in California for a net gain of
approximately $121 million. Income from continuing operations in 2005 was $191 million, an increase of approximately $132 million in comparison to 2004. The increase was primarily driven by reduction in costs and expenses due to the incremental benefits of our restructuring programs and discretionary spending controls.
 
At October 31, 2006, our headcount, on a continuing operations basis, was approximately 18,700 compared to 19,400 in 2005 and 19,800 in 2004. The decrease in workforce is predominantly due to infrastructure reduction in light of the recent business divestitures.
 
Provision for Income Taxes from Continuing Operations
 
 
For the year ended October 31, 2006, we recorded an income tax provision of $91 million on continuing operations as compared with an income tax provision of $142 million and $57 million on continuing operations for the years ended October 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The 2006 provision was recorded for taxes on income generated in jurisdictions other than the U.S. Income generated in the U.S. and, to a much lesser extent, losses incurred in certain foreign jurisdictions were offset by adjustments to their respective valuation allowances. The income tax provision also includes a benefit of $29 million related to the resolution of domestic tax-related issues for years covered by a Tax Sharing Agreement between Agilent and Hewlett-Packard. The Tax Sharing Agreement is related to the 2000 spin-off of Agilent from Hewlett-Packard.
 
For 2006, the annual effective tax rate was 6.0 percent on continuing operations. The 6.0 percent continuing operations tax rate reflects taxes on the sale of our Lumileds joint venture at an effective tax rate of zero in the U.S. (due to the operation of the valuation allowance) and at low effective tax rates in other jurisdictions. In addition, the low continuing operations tax rate is a result of the $29 million benefit related to the resolution of issues covered by a Tax Sharing Agreement between Agilent and Hewlett-Packard. The tax rate for continuing operations does not include the impact of income from low-tax jurisdictions generated by our semiconductor products business and our semiconductor test solutions business which are now reported as discontinued operations.
 
For 2005, the annual effective tax rate was 42.6 percent on continuing operations. This tax rate for continuing operations does not include the impact of income from low-tax jurisdictions generated by our semiconductor products business and our semiconductor test solutions business which are now reported as discontinued operations. Additionally, the repatriation tax of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ("AJCA") caused a 7.2 percent increase in the 2005 effective tax rate as during 2005 we decided to repatriate earnings on which we had not previously provided U.S. taxes.
 
For 2004, the annual effective tax rate was 49.1 percent on continuing operations. This tax rate for continuing operations does not include the impact of income from low-tax jurisdictions generated by our semiconductor products business and our semiconductor test solutions business which are now reported as discontinued operations. In addition, non-deductible goodwill increased the rate by 5.6 percent.
 
On October 22, 2004, the AJCA was signed into law. The AJCA created a temporary incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate accumulated income earned abroad by providing an 85 percent dividends received deduction for certain dividends from controlled foreign corporations. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, we distributed cash from our foreign subsidiaries and reported an extraordinary dividend (as defined in the AJCA) of $970 million and a related tax liability of approximately $48 million in our fiscal 2005 federal income tax return. For 2005, $23 million of the $48 million is provided for in the discontinued operations' provision for income taxes, while the remaining is provided for in the continuing operations' provision for income taxes.
 
Agilent enjoys tax holidays in several different jurisdictions, most significantly in Singapore, Malaysia and Switzerland. The tax holidays provide lower rates of taxation on certain classes of income and require various thresholds of investments and employment in those jurisdictions. As a result of the incentives, the impact of the tax holidays decreased income taxes by $76 million, $54 million and $96 in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. It is anticipated that these tax holidays will benefit Agilent in a similar way in 2007.
 
During 2003, we established valuation allowances for the deferred tax assets of the U.S. and selected entities in foreign jurisdictions. The valuation allowances were determined in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 109 which require an assessment of both positive and negative evidence when determining whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets
are recoverable. Such assessment is required on a jurisdiction by jurisdiction basis. Cumulative losses incurred in the U.S and certain entities in foreign jurisdictions in recent years represented sufficient negative evidence under SFAS No. 109 to require full valuation allowances. We intend to maintain full valuation allowances until sufficient positive evidence exists to support the reversal.
 
In connection with an Internal Revenue Service (IRS) audit of our U.S. federal income tax returns for 2000 through 2002, we received a Notice of Proposed Adjustment (NOPA) in October 2006 in which the IRS claims significant increases to our U.S. taxable income which could result in a commensurate increase in our U.S. income taxes payable. This claim relates to the use of Agilent's brand name by our foreign affiliates. We expect to receive a Revenue Agent's Report (RAR) with respect to this claim in due course in which we anticipate the IRS will assert a significant aggregate tax deficiency, plus interest and possible penalties. We believe that the claimed IRS adjustments are inconsistent with applicable tax laws and that the chances of the IRS prevailing on the claim are remote. Accordingly, we will oppose the claimed adjustments vigorously. In accordance with SFAS No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies", we have not accrued an income tax liability in our October 31, 2006 financial statements as we believe the possibility that the IRS will be successful in its claim for the adjustment is remote.
 
For all U.S. and other tax jurisdictions, we recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest will be due. If our estimate of income tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would be required. If events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary.
 
Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliate and Gain on Sale  Lumileds
 
Lumileds was a global joint venture between Agilent and KoninklijkePhilips Electronics N.V.("Philips"). Lumileds manufactures high-power light emitting diodes and solid-state lighting solutions. Agilent sold its interest in Lumileds on November 28, 2005. Pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement, upon closure of the sale transaction, the Joint Venture Agreement and the ancillary agreements were terminated. The purchase price paid by Philips under the Share Purchase Agreement was $949 million. In addition, Lumileds repaid the $51 million of outstanding principal debt and accrued interest under the Credit Agreement, dated as of November 30, 2001.
 
Our equity in the net income of our unconsolidated affiliate including the gain on sale of our interest in Lumileds was $901 million in 2006, $42 million in 2005 and $29 million in 2004.
 
General Infrastructure and Shared Services
 
For Agilent overall, in response to the divestiture and spin-off of our semiconductor businesses, we have decreased our infrastructure costs primarily through restructuring programs and streamlining our operations. We have reduced the number of employees in our workforce that provide support services such as finance, IT and workplace services and moved many of our global shared services operations sites to lower cost regions. In 2006, savings for infrastructure costs associated with restructuring plans, IT data center and networking costs, IT project investments and cost controls were approximately $280 million compared with 2005. We passed these savings on to all our businesses according to usage of related services. The general infrastructure and shared services functions ended 2006 with approximately 2,750 employees, a decrease of approximately 1,160 employees from one year ago and a decrease of approximately 1,300 employees from two years ago. Over the past two years, general infrastructure and shared services headcount has dropped by approximately 1,190 people in the U.S. and Europe and has also dropped by approximately 110 people in Asia. Although reductions in infrastructure costs are largely complete as we have divested our semiconductor products business and spun-off our semiconductor test solutions business, we expect that a few key infrastructure areas such as IT and workplace services will continue to see savings in the next fiscal year.
 
Segment Overview
 
During 2006, we completed the divestiture of our semiconductor products business and spin-off of our semiconductor test solutions business See Note 3, "Discontinued Operations of Our Semiconductor Products Business" and  Note 4, "Discontinued Operations of Our Semiconductor Test Solutions Business" to our consolidated financial statements for further information. With this reorganization, Agilent has two businesses  bio-analytical measurement and electronic measurement. In addition to the discussion below, also see Note 23, "Segment Information", to our consolidated financial statements.
Electronic Measurement
 
Our electronic measurement business provides standard and customized solutions that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronic equipment and systems and communications networks and services.
 
Orders and Net Revenue
 
 
The order and revenue information below reflects a characterization using a new methodology for defining "communications test" and "general purpose test" as the markets into which our products are sold. This is a change from our previous classification method which relied on product type as the primary classification mechanism.
 
Compared to 2005, electronic measurement experienced a 5 percent increase in orders. Order growth was driven by strength in electronic manufacturing test, wireless component test, and signal sources for both aerospace/defense and wireless communication applications. The 4 percent increase in orders in 2005 compared to 2004 was related to significant growth in our wireline communications test businesses while wireless communications test orders grew only slightly in that period.
 
Electronic measurement revenues were up 4 percent year-over-year in 2006 mainly attributable to increased volumes. Communications test made up approximately 42 percent of the electronic measurement revenues for the year, and wireless test made up approximately 83 percent of communications test. Communication test revenues were down 9 percent year-over-year, with a 23 percent year-over-year decline in wireline test and wireless test down 5 percent as compared to last year. The decline in wireline test was driven by weakness in the router test and network monitoring businesses, while growth in wireless design software and wireless R&D were offset by weakness in the wireless network monitoring market. General purpose test revenues grew 10 percent over 2005, with strength in semiconductor design and verification, aerospace/defense and consumer electronic manufacturing applications. In 2005 segment revenues increased 2 percent compared to 2004 due to the strength of our signal analyzers and signal generator-related products, telecom service provider network integration and next-generation IP services.
 
Looking forward to 2007, we anticipate revenue growth to be driven by opportunities tied to the continued development and deployment of multi-media (voice, data, audio, video) wireless services, proliferation of broadband and triple-play wireline offerings, expansion of the breadth of our product offerings, and growth in nanotechnology applications.
 
Gross Margin and Operating Margin
 
The following table shows the electronic measurement business's margins, expenses and income from operations for 2006 versus 2005 and 2005 versus 2004.
 
 
Over the past three years, we have implemented cost reduction and restructuring plans to help lower our cost structure. Our electronic measurement business ended 2006 with approximately 11,490 employees, an increase of approximately 300 employees from one year ago. The increase in workforce has occurred primarily in lower cost geographies.
 
Gross margin for products and services increased 3 percentage points year-over-year in 2006. Gross margin for products and services increased 2 percentage points in 2005 compared to 2004. The improvement for all periods were driven by some volume increases and also by restructuring activities, material cost reductions, lower inventory charges and overall operational improvements.
Operating margin increased 3 percentage points in 2006 compared to 2005, with improved gross margins driving almost all of the change. Operating margin increased 3 percentage points in 2005 compared to 2004, and was driven by savings in selling, general and administrative expenses offset by increases in research and development expenditure.
 
Income from Operations
 
Income from operations increased in 2006 by $119 million compared to 2005 on a revenue increase of $134 million. Restructuring through selective workforce reductions, reductions in our cost structure, improved material costs, lower inventory charges and overall operational improvements helped comparative operating results, with most of the improvement coming from better gross margins. In absolute dollars cost of sales was down 3 percent from 2005 while revenue increased by 4 percent over the same period.
 
Income from operations increased in 2005 by $84 million compared to 2004 on a revenue increase of $47 million. Restructuring through workforce reductions, reduction in our cost structure and discretionary spending controls helped comparative operating results.
 
Bio-analytical Measurement
 
Our bio-analytical measurement business provides application-focused solutions that include instruments, software, consumables and services that enable customers to identify, quantify and analyze the physical and biological properties of substances and products. Our seven key product categories include: microarrays, microfluidics, gas chromatography, liquid chromatography, mass spectrometry, software and informatics, and related consumables, reagents and services. The business continued to achieve solid growth in 2006, with orders growing by 9 percent and revenue by 10 percent, compared to 2005, and operating income up 19 percent. All seven key product categories contributed to the overall growth of the bio-analytical measurement segment. In 2005 sustained growth was recorded compared to 2004 with orders and net revenue increasing by 10 percent and 6 percent respectively and operating income up 4 percent.
 
Orders and Net Revenue
 
 
Bio-analytical measurement business orders continued to grow, achieving record levels in 2006. In both 2005 and 2006, growth was achieved in all geographies, with the highest rates achieved in Asia and Europe. Results were consistent with our normal seasonal pattern and reflected strong demand across virtually all of our markets.
 
Chemical analysis orders, representing approximately 59 percent of bio- analytical measurement, grew 8 percent in 2006 compared to 2005. During the year, we continued to see strength from the food and environmental segments due to increased testing demands from new regulations enacted in Europe and Asia, particularly China and India. These regulatory changes led to strong demand for our gas chromatography, liquid chromatography and mass spectrometry solutions that are used for food and environmental testing. Also new products such as the triple quadrupole ("QQQ") mass spectrometer which sell into these segments were well received. In addition, higher average oil prices for the year continue to drive demand for our instrumentation in the hydrocarbon processing and petrochemical industries. Chemical analysis orders grew 6 percent in 2005 compared to 2004 driven by demand for environmental testing solutions in Asia and strength in US Government spending relating to homeland security.
 
Life science orders, representing approximately 41 percent of bio- analytical measurement, grew 11 percent for the 2006 year compared to 2005. This double digit growth was aided by the broad and rapid acceptance of recently introduced products such as the 1200 rapid resolution liquid chromatograph, QQQ mass spectrometer, new liquid chromatography columns, and new microarrays. During the year, we saw strong demand from contract research organizations and generic drug manufacturers in Europe and Asia, which helped offset a mostly soft spending year for large pharmaceuticals in the Americas region. Life science orders grew 16 percent in 2005 compared to 2004 driven primarily by biotechnology and increased demand from generic drug manufacture.
Revenues for the year grew 10 percent in 2006 compared to 2005. Both chemical analysis and life sciences had solid annual growth both finishing the year at 10 percent. Chemical analysis continues to see strong demand for our food and environmental testing solutions, which use instruments in the areas of liquid and gas chromatography and gas chromatography mass spectrometry. In life sciences, demand from contract research organizations and generic drug manufacturers for product such as microarrays, liquid and gas chromatography mass spectrometry products contributed to this segment's growth. In 2005, chemical analysis grew 2 percent compared to 2004, with most of this growth driven by increasing environmental testing in Asia, while in life science; this segment grew 12 percent, as growth in this segment was driven by increased demand from generic drug manufacturers.
 
Looking forward to 2007, we anticipate order and revenue to grow from 2006 levels, with strength across both our chemical analysis and life science businesses. We anticipate growth to be driven by recently released products such as rapid resolution liquid chromatography, enhanced single quadrupole liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry, QQQ, mass spectrometer, and quadrupole time-of-flight ("QTOF") mass spectrometry systems.
 
Gross Margin and Operating Margin
 
The following table shows the bio-analytical measurement business's margins, expenses and income from operations for 2006 versus 2005, and 2005 versus 2004.
 
 
Gross margin in 2006 from products and services increased 3 percentage points compared to the same period last year. The improvement in gross margin was driven by increased revenue, manufacturing overhead efficiencies, and a decrease in general infrastructure costs. Gross margins increased by 1 percentage points in 2005 compared with 2004 due to revenue growth, improved microarray production processes, and increased efficiencies in support delivery.
 
Research and development expenses in 2006 increased by 7 percent compared to the same period last year. This increase is due to continued investment in life sciences, increase in headcount from acquisitions, program spending to support our new product releases for this year, and higher general infrastructure costs. Research and development costs increased by 16 percent in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to investment to support new product introductions, acquisition activity and Life Science businesses.
 
Selling, general, and administrative expenses in 2006 increased 15 percent compared to the same period last year. This is due to higher employee-related costs, incremental headcount from acquisitions, product launch expense to support new product releases, and higher general infrastructure costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased by 10 percent in 2005 compared to 2004 primarily due to increased infrastructure costs and integration expenses to support acquisitions.
 
Operating margins increased by 1 percentage point in 2006 compared to 2005. This is due to higher revenues and operational efficiencies offsetting the higher investments we made in research and development and selling, general, and administrative to accommodate growth. In 2005, operating margins were flat compared to 2004, as we heavily invested in research and development and small headcount increases in selling, general, and administrative to support growth.
Income from Operations
 
Income from operations increased 19 percent in 2006 compared to 2005 due to increased revenue and operational efficiencies that offset higher investments and higher general infrastructure costs that were made in research and development and selling, general, and administrative to support our growth. Operating income increased 4 percent in 2005 compared to 2004 due to increased revenue.
 
Discontinued Operations of Our Semiconductor Products Business
 
On December 1, 2005, we completed the divestiture of our semiconductor products business to Avago Technologies Ltd. ("Avago"). Under the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement ("APA"), Agilent received approximately $2.6 billion in cash proceeds. For further information, see Note 3, "Discontinued Operations of our Semiconductor Products Business", to our consolidated financial statements.
 
Discontinued operations results for our semiconductor products business for the past three years, including the gain from sale in the year ended October 31, 2006, are summarized in the table below. In the year ended October 31, 2005, the results include the camera module business, which was sold in February 2005.
 
 
Discontinued Operations of Our Semiconductor Test Solutions Business
 
On August 15, 2005, Agilent announced its intention to separate its semiconductor test solutions business, Verigy, into a stand- alone publicly traded company. During the third quarter of fiscal 2006, Verigy completed the initial public offering ("IPO") of 8.7 million of its ordinary shares at a price of $15 per share for total net proceeds of $121 million. As part of the offering, Agilent made a payment to Verigy of $19 million, the amount by which the net IPO proceeds were insufficient to complete the agreed-upon Verigy initial capitalization of $140 million. As a result of the IPO, Agilent recorded additional paid-in capital of $74 million related to the excess of the IPO price over the book value of the shares sold. Following the offering, Agilent owned 50 million shares or approximately 85 percent of Verigy's ordinary shares.
 
On October 31, 2006, Agilent completed the spin-off of Verigy by distributing its remaining 85 percent equity interest in Verigy to Agilent stockholders. The spin-off was effected by way of a pro rata non-cash dividend to Agilent stockholders, which reduced retained earnings by $310 million. In the distribution, Agilent distributed to its stockholders .122435 of an ordinary share of Verigy for each outstanding share of Agilent common stock owned as of close of market on October 16, 2006. In the aggregate, Agilent distributed 50 million Verigy ordinary shares to Agilent stockholders. Based on the closing price for Verigy ordinary shares on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on October 31, 2006 of $16.80 per share, the aggregate market value of the shares distributed in the distribution was $840 million. The historical results of Verigy have been reflected as discontinued operations in the consolidated financial statements for all periods presented. For further information, see Note 4, "Discontinued Operations of our Semiconductor Test Solutions Business", to our consolidated financial statements.
 
The following table summarizes results from discontinued operations for the presented periods ended October 31 included in the consolidated statement of operations:
 
Indemnifications
 
In connection with the divestitures of our semiconductor products and semiconductor test businesses in 2006, we have provided indemnities to Verigy and Avago against certain damages which they might incur related to the businesses of Agilent not transferred to them and other defined categories of liability. These new indemnity obligations are in addition to preexisting indemnities to Hewlett Packard in connection with our activities prior to our spin-off from HP; indemnities to our officers and directors for certain liabilities which they might incur as a result of their service to Agilent; and other indemnifications which are customary in our industry or provided for in local law in the U.S. and other jurisdictions in connection with our commercial operations. These indemnities are described in greater detail in Note 17, "Guarantees", to our consolidated financial statements.
 
Financial Condition
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources
 
Our financial position remained strong at October 31, 2006, with cash and cash equivalents of $2,262 million as compared to $2,226 million at October 31, 2005.
 
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities
 
We generated cash from continuing operations of $431 million in 2006 compared to $656 million in 2005.
 
We paid approximately $156 million in taxes during 2006 as compared to $75 million in 2005. The higher tax payments in 2006 were mostly associated with the U.S. tax liability created in 2005 for repatriation of earnings from our foreign subsidiaries of $970 million under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, and with the 2005 federal alternate minimum tax.
 
We also made higher disbursements for restructuring activities of $166 million during 2006, primarily in the form of severance payments, compared to $110 million during 2005. The restructuring payments were more than offset by proceeds from the real estate sales related to the consolidation of excess facilities as reported in the investing section below. We have also paid approximately $155 million during 2006 under our variable pay programs, as compared to approximately $83 million paid out during 2005.
 
In 2006, accounts receivable generated cash of $8 million versus cash generated of $47 million in 2005. Days sales outstanding was reduced to 47 days in 2006 as compared to 49 days in 2005. Though revenue increased by 6 percent year-over-year, decline in day's sales outstanding reflects continuing improvement in receivables management. In 2006, accounts payable generated cash of $56 million versus cash generated of $19 million in 2005. Inventory used cash of $55 million in 2006 compared to $12 million generated in 2005. Inventory days on hand were 95 days in 2006 compared to 90 days in 2005.
 
We contributed $41 million to fund our U.S. defined benefit plan in 2006 and 2005, respectively. In 2006, we contributed $76 million to fund our international defined benefits plans, compared to $34 million in 2005. In 2006, total pension plan contributions were $117 million, or 56 percent more than in 2005. In 2007, we expect funding requirements for our various benefit plans to decrease to a total of approximately $39 million. Our annual contributions are highly dependent on the relative performance of our assets versus our projected liabilities, among other factors. As the value of our assets increases relative to our future projected obligations we will make smaller contributions to maintain our funded status. In 2006, we recorded an additional minimum pension liability for $112 million as several of our non-U.S. defined benefit retirement plans had accumulated benefit obligations in excess of the fair value of plan assets. The establishment of the additional minimum liability also resulted in a net long term deferred tax asset for $34 million.
 
Net cash provided by operating activities from discontinued operations related to semiconductor products business was $7 million during 2006 as compared to $256 million in 2005. We completed the sale of our semiconductor products business in December 2005.
 
Net cash provided by operating activities from discontinued operations related to semiconductor test solutions business was $196 million during 2006 as compared to $13 million used in 2005. We completed the spin-off of our semiconductor test solutions business in October 2006.
 
Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities
 
Net cash provided by investing activities of continuing operations 2006 was $1,838 million compared to $159 million used in the same period in 2005.
 
In December 2005, we completed the divestiture of our semiconductor products division for $2.5 billion net of transaction costs and taxes. In November 2005, we also completed the sale of our ownership in Lumileds to Philips for approximately $949 million, plus repayment of approximately $51 million of outstanding principal debt and accrued interest from Lumileds. Sale of ownership in Lumileds resulted in a gain of approximately $901 million.
 
Restricted cash, cash equivalents and investments, net, increased by $1,584 million in 2006 as compared to a $22 million increase in 2005. In connection with the financing described under "Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities" below, Agilent Technologies (Cayco) Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Agilent Technologies World Trade, Inc. ("World Trade"), which is in turn a wholly owned subsidiary of Agilent, is required to hold short-term investments. These short-term investments have been disclosed as restricted cash and cash equivalents on our consolidated balance sheet.
 
Investments in property, plant and equipment were $185 million, an increase of $57 million from 2005. The increase in the capital expenditure was due to our site restructuring following the semiconductor products division divestiture and spin-off of our semiconductor test solutions business. Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment were $207 million in 2006 as compared to $54 million in 2005. During 2006, we sold our Palo Alto site and San Jose site for a total consideration of approximately $186.5 million. We also purchased minority interests in consolidated joint ventures for $104 million during 2006 which included primarily the remaining minority interest of 49 percent in Yokogawa Analytical Systems for $98 million. In addition, we invested $50 million in the acquisitions of businesses and intangible assets, net of cash in 2006 compared to $64 million in 2005. Proceeds from the sale of short-term investments were $25 million in 2006.
 
Net cash used in investing activities of discontinued operations related to our semiconductor products business was $6 million in 2006 as compared to cash used of $27 million during 2005. Net cash used in investing activities of discontinued operations related to our semiconductor test solutions business was $36 million in 2006 as compared to cash used of $14 million during 2005.
 
Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Financing Activities
 
Net cash used in financing activities in 2006 was $2,548 million compared to $780 million used in 2005.
 
Our board of directors authorized a stock repurchase program of up to $4.466 billion in 2005 and up to an additional $2 billion by the end of fiscal 2008. We completed $4.466 billion stock repurchase program in 2006. In addition we also repurchased our common stock for $56 million under the 2006 program. As of October 31, 2006, we have acquired approximately 127 million shares of our common stock under both programs. Proceeds from issuance of common stock under employee stock plans were $547 million and $198 million during 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increase in the proceeds was primarily due to the higher exercise rate of options as a result of a higher Agilent stock price and modifications to the terms of the options held by employees of our semiconductor products business. The modification effected the acceleration of vesting for all unvested options as part of the divestiture of the semiconductor products business.
 
We distributed $300 million upon separation of our semiconductor test solutions business ("Verigy") on October 31, 2006. This amount was held by Verigy as of October 31, 2006. Agilent also made a payment of $19 million pursuant to master separation agreement, the amount by which the aggregate net proceeds from Verigy IPO were less than $140 million. For further details, see Note 4, "Discontinued operations of our semiconductor test solutions business", to our consolidated financial statements.
 
In January 2006, World Trade entered into a Master Repurchase Agreement and related Confirmation (together, the "Repurchase Agreement") with a counterparty pursuant to which World Trade sold to the counterparty 15,000 Class A preferred shares having an aggregate liquidation preference of $1.5 billion of its wholly owned subsidiary, which has its own assets and liabilities, and received $1.5 billion in cash. Pursuant to the Repurchase Agreement, World Trade is obligated to repurchase from the counterparty the preferred shares for 100 percent of their aggregate liquidation preference in January 2011. The $1.5 billion obligation of World Trade to repurchase the preferred shares has been treated as long-term debt on our consolidated balance sheet.
 
In December 2005, we drew down $700 million on a $1 billion senior secured term borrowing facility to help finance our share repurchase program. In January 2006, we applied $700 million of the proceeds from the Repurchase Agreement to repay the full amount borrowed under the Credit Agreement. The senior secured term borrowing facility expired in the first quarter of 2006.
Net cash provided by financing activities of discontinued operations related to our semiconductor test solutions business was $140 million in 2006. During the third quarter of 2006, Verigy completed their initial public offering ("IPO") of 8.7 million shares. In addition, the underwriters of the IPO exercised a portion of their over-allotment options. Total proceeds from IPO and exercise of over-allotment options by underwriters were $121 million, net. Agilent made a payment of an additional $19 million pursuant to master separation agreement, the amount by which the aggregate net proceeds from Verigy IPO were less than $140 million.
 
Other
 
We have contractual commitments for non-cancelable operating leases. See Note 18, "Commitments and Contingencies", to our consolidated financial statements for further information on our non-cancelable operating leases.
 
Our liquidity is affected by many factors, some of which are based on normal ongoing operations of our business and some of which arise from fluctuations related to global economics and markets. Our cash balances are generated and held in many locations throughout the world. Local government regulations may restrict our ability to move cash balances to meet cash needs under certain circumstances. We do not currently expect such regulations and restrictions to impact our ability to pay vendors and conduct operations throughout our global organization.
 
On April 13, 2005, Standard & Poor's Rating Services ("S&P") raised its corporate credit and senior unsecured debt ratings of Agilent to "BB+" from "BB", revising their rating outlook to "stable" from "positive". On August 15, 2005, S&P raised its rating outlook on Agilent to "positive", but left the company's corporate credit and senior unsecured debt ratings unchanged. On December 11, 2006, Moody's Investors Service ("Moody's") upgraded their corporate family rating and probability of default rating of Agilent from "Ba2" to "Ba1" and revised their rating outlook to positive, leaving unchanged the speculative grade liquidity rating of "SGL-1".
 
Contractual Commitments
 
Our cash flows from operations are dependent on a number of factors, including fluctuations in our operating results, accounts receivable collections, inventory management, and the timing of tax and other payments. As a result, the impact of contractual obligations on our liquidity and capital resources in future periods should be analyzed in conjunction with such factors.
 
The following table summarizes our total contractual obligations at October 31, 2006 for continuing operations and excludes amounts recorded in our consolidated balance sheet (in millions):
 
 
Commitments under operating leases relate primarily to leasehold property.
Operating leases.
 
We purchase components from a variety of suppliers and use several contract manufacturers to provide manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business, we issue purchase orders with estimates of our requirements several months ahead of the delivery dates. However, our agreements with these suppliers usually allow us the option to cancel, reschedule, and adjust our requirements based on our business needs prior to firm orders being placed. Typically purchase orders outstanding with delivery dates within 30 days are non-cancelable. Therefore, only approximately 36 percent of our reported purchase commitments arising from these agreements are firm, non-cancelable, and unconditional commitments. We expect to fulfill all purchase commitments for inventory within one year.
Commitments to contract manufacturers and suppliers.
 
In addition to the above, we record a liability for firm, non-cancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments for quantities in excess of our future demand forecasts consistent with our policy relating to excess inventory. As of October 31, 2006, the liability for our firm, non-cancelable, and unconditional purchase commitments was $9 million, compared with $11 million as of October 31, 2005. These amounts are included in other accrued liabilities in our consolidated balance sheet.
 
These relate primarily to contracts with professional services suppliers. Purchase commitments are typically cancelable within a 90-day period without significant penalties.
Other purchase commitments.
 
Retirement plan funding includes the expected tax-deductible contribution planned for 2007. Funding projections beyond the current year are not practical to estimate due to the rules affecting tax deductible contributions and the impact from asset performance and interest rates.
Retirement plans.
 
We had no material off-balance sheet arrangements as of October 31, 2006 or October 31, 2005.
 
 
 
Item 8.
Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
 
 
Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in  issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on the results of this evaluation, our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of October 31, 2006.
Internal Control
Integrated Framework
 
Our management's assessment of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2006 has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears in Item 8 of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
To the Stockholders and Board of Directors of Agilent Technologies, Inc.:
 
We have completed integrated audits of Agilent Technologies, Inc.'s 2006 and 2005 consolidated financial statements and of its internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2006, and an audit of its 2004 consolidated financial statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Our opinions, based on our audits, are presented below.
 
Consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule
 
In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the accompanying index present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Agilent Technologies, Inc. and its subsidiaries at October 31, 2006 and 2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended October 31, 2006 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. In addition, in our opinion, the financial statement schedule listed in the accompanying index presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements. These financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit of financial statements includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), "Share-Based Payment" as of November 1, 2005 and changed the manner in which it accounts for share-based compensation in fiscal 2006.
 
Internal control over financial reporting
 
Also, in our opinion, management's assessment, included in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting, that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2006 based on criteria established in issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), is fairly stated, in all material respects, based on those criteria. Furthermore, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of October 31, 2006, based on criteria established in issued by the COSO. The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. Our responsibility is to express opinions on management's assessment and on the effectiveness of the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We conducted our audit of internal control over financial reporting in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. An audit of internal control over financial reporting includes obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management's assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control, and performing such other procedures as we consider necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinions.
Internal Control  Integrated Framework
Internal Control  Integrated Framework
 
A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.
Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.
 
PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP
 
San Jose, California
December 22, 2006, except with respect to our opinion on the consolidated financial statements, insofar as it relates to segment information in Note 23, as to which the date is October 11, 2007
 
 
 
 
 
 
1.
Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
                                     
 
Agilent Technologies, Inc. ("we", "Agilent" or the "company"), incorporated in Delaware in May 1999, is a measurement company, providing core bio-analytical and electronic measurement solutions to the communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis industries. Prior to our initial public offering of 16 percent of our stock in November 1999, we were a wholly- owned subsidiary of Hewlett-Packard Company ("HP"). HP distributed the remaining 84 percent of our stock to its stockholders on June 2, 2000 in the form of a stock dividend.
 
In the first quarter of 2006, we completed the divestiture of our semiconductor products business. The results of our semiconductor products business are presented as a discontinued operation for all periods in the consolidated financial statements included herein. See Note 3, "Discontinued Operations of Our Semiconductor Products Business." In the third quarter of 2006, we completed the initial public offering of our semiconductor test solutions business, Verigy Ltd., ("Verigy"). Verigy was a majority-owned subsidiary of Agilent until the distribution of our remaining Verigy shares to Agilent stockholders on October 31, 2006. The results of operations and financial position of Verigy are included in the consolidated financial statements of Agilent and reported as discontinued operations. See Note 4, "Discontinued Operations of Our Semiconductor Test Solutions Business."
 
The accompanying financial data has been prepared by us pursuant to the rules and regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") and is in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). Our fiscal year end is October 31. Unless otherwise stated, all years and dates refer to our fiscal year.
Basis of presentation.
 
Management is responsible for the fair presentation of the accompanying consolidated financial statements, prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP, and has full responsibility for their integrity and accuracy. In the opinion of management, the accompanying consolidated financial statements contain all normal and recurring adjustments necessary to present fairly our consolidated balance sheet, statement of operations and cash flows for all periods presented.
 
Amounts in the consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended October 31, 2005 and October 31, 2004 were reclassified to conform to the presentation used in 2006. See Note 3, "Discontinued Operations of Our Semiconductor Products Business," Note 4, "Discontinued Operations of Our Semiconductor Test Solutions Business" and Note 7, "Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliate and Gain on Sale  Lumileds" for a discussion relating to these reclassifications.
Reclassifications.
 
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the company and our wholly- and majority-owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated. Partially owned, non-controlled equity affiliates are accounted for under the equity method.
Principles of consolidation.
 
The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on management's best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the company in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates. Our critical accounting policies are those that affect our financial statements materially and involve difficult, subjective or complex judgments by management. Those policies are revenue recognition, restructuring and asset impairment charges, share-based compensation, inventory valuation, investment impairments, retirement and post-retirement plan assumptions, valuation of long-lived assets and accounting for income taxes.
Use of estimates.
 
We enter into agreements to sell products (hardware and/or software), services and other arrangements (multiple element arrangements) that include combinations of products and services.
Revenue recognition.
 
We recognize revenue, net of trade discounts and allowances, provided that (1) persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, (2) delivery has occurred, (3) the price is fixed or determinable and (4) collectibility is reasonably assured. Delivery is considered to have occurred when title and risk of loss have transferred to the customer, for products, or when the service has been provided. We consider the price to be fixed or determinable when the price is not subject to refund or adjustments. We consider arrangements with extended payment terms not to be fixed or determinable, and accordingly we defer revenue until amounts become due. At the time of the transaction, we evaluate the creditworthiness of our customers to determine the appropriate timing of revenue recognition.
Our product revenue is generated predominantly from the sales of various types of test equipment. Software is embedded in many of our test equipment products, but the software component is generally considered to be incidental. Product revenue, including sales to resellers and distributors, is reduced for estimated returns, when appropriate. For sales or arrangements that include customer-specified acceptance criteria, including those where acceptance is required upon achievement of performance milestones, revenue is recognized after the acceptance criteria have been met. For products that include installation, if the installation meets the criteria to be considered a separate element, product revenue is recognized upon delivery, and recognition of installation revenue is delayed until the installation is complete. Otherwise, neither the product nor the installation revenue is recognized until the installation is complete.
Product revenue.
 
Where software is licensed separately, revenue is recognized when the software is delivered and title and risk of loss have been transferred to the customer or, in the case of electronic delivery of software, when the customer is given access to the licensed software programs. We also evaluate whether collection of the receivable is probable, the fee is fixed or determinable and whether any other undelivered elements of the arrangement exist on which a portion of the total fee would be allocated based on vendor-specific objective evidence.
 
Revenue from services includes extended warranty, customer support, consulting, training and education. Service revenue is deferred and recognized over the contractual period or as services are rendered and accepted by the customer. For example, customer support contracts are recognized ratably over the contractual period, while training revenue is recognized as the training is provided to the customer. In addition the four revenue recognition criteria described above must be met before service revenue is recognized.
Service revenue.
 
We use objective evidence of fair value to allocate revenue to elements in multiple element arrangements and recognize revenue when the criteria for revenue recognition have been met for each element. If the criteria are not met, then revenue is deferred until such criteria are met or until the period(s) over which the last undelivered element is delivered. In the absence of objective evidence of fair value of a delivered element, we allocate revenue to the fair value of the undelivered elements and the residual revenue to the delivered elements. The price charged when an element is sold separately generally determines fair value.
Multiple element arrangements.
 
Deferred revenue is primarily comprised of advanced billing and customer deposits for service, support and maintenance agreements.
Deferred revenue.
 
Trade accounts receivable are recorded at the invoiced amount and do not bear interest. Such accounts receivable has been reduced by an allowance for doubtful accounts, which is our best estimate of the amount of probable credit losses in our existing accounts receivable. We determine the allowance based on customer specific experience and the aging of such receivables, among other factors. We do not have any off-balance-sheet credit exposure related to our customers. Accounts receivable are also recorded net of product returns.
Accounts receivable, net.
 
For the year ended 2006, we accounted for share-based awards made to our employees and directors including employee stock option awards, employee stock purchases made under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP") and performance share awards under Agilent Technologies, Inc. Long-Term Performance Program ("LTPP") using the estimated grant date fair value method of accounting in accordance with SFAS, No.123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment" ("SFAS No. 123 (R)"), which was effective November 1, 2005 for Agilent. Under the fair value method, we recorded compensation expense in our consolidated statement of operations for share-based awards granted prior to but not yet vested as of November 1, 2005 as if the fair value method required for proforma disclosure under SFAS No. 123 were in effect for expense recognition purposes. Additionally, we recorded compensation expense using the fair value method for all share-based awards granted after November 1, 2005. We recorded SFAS No. 123 (R) compensation expense in continuing operations of $94 million in 2006. See Note 2, "New Accounting Pronouncements", for new accounting pronouncements affecting share-based awards beginning November 1, 2005.
Share-based compensation.
 
Through year end 2005, we accounted for share-based awards to employees and directors using the intrinsic value method of accounting in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" ("APB No. 25"). Under the intrinsic value method, we recorded compensation expense related to stock options in our consolidated statement of operations when the exercise price of our employee share-based award was less than the market price of the underlying stock on the date of the grant. Compensation expense was also recorded for the LTPP using the variable accounting method. We recorded APB No. 25 compensation expense in continuing operations of $8 million in 2005 and $7 million in 2004. The APB No. 25 compensation expense in 2005 and 2004 primarily related to our LTPP. We issue new shares for award exercises.
Inventory is valued at standard cost, which approximates actual cost computed on a first-in, first-out basis, not in excess of market value. We assess the valuation of our inventory on a quarterly basis and periodically write down the value for estimated excess and obsolete inventory based on estimates about future demand. The excess balance determined by this analysis becomes the basis for our excess inventory charge. Our marketing department plays a key role in our excess inventory review process by providing updated sales forecasts, managing product rollovers and working with manufacturing to maximize recovery of excess inventory.
Inventory.
 
Income tax expense or benefit is based on income or loss before taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized principally for the expected tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts.
Taxes on income.
 
Our standard warranty terms typically extend for one year from the date of delivery, but our current reserve balance includes three year agreements from prior periods. We accrue for standard warranty costs in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies" ("SFAS No. 5"), based on historical trends in warranty charges as a percentage of gross product shipments. The accrual is reviewed regularly and periodically adjusted to reflect changes in warranty cost estimates. Estimated warranty charges are recorded within cost of products at the time products are sold. See Note 17, "Guarantees".
Warranty.
 
Our shipping and handling costs charged to customers are included in net revenue, and the associated expense is recorded in cost of products for all periods presented.
Shipping and handling costs.
 
Our accounting complies with SFAS No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" ("SFAS No. 142"). Goodwill is not amortized but reviewed annually (or more frequently if impairment indicators arise) for impairment. Purchased intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortization. Amortization is computed using the straight-line method over the economic lives of the respective assets, generally three to five years.
Goodwill and purchased intangible assets.
 
Advertising costs are expensed as incurred and amounted to $44 million in 2006, $33 million in 2005 and $46 million in 2004 for Agilent continuing operations.
Advertising.
 
Costs related to research, design and development of our products are charged to research and development expense as they are incurred.
Research and development.
 
Sales taxes collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities are not included in our revenue.
Sales Taxes.
 
Basic net income (loss) per share is computed by dividing net income (loss)  the numerator  by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding  the denominator  during the period excluding the dilutive effect of stock options and other employee stock plans. Diluted net income (loss) per share gives effect to all potentially dilutive common stock equivalents outstanding during the period. In computing diluted net income (loss) per share under the treasury stock method, the average stock price for the period is used in determining the number of shares assumed to be purchased from the proceeds of stock option exercises. For fiscal year 2006 the number of shares assumed to be purchased also considered the amount of unrecognized compensation cost for future service as required under SFAS No. 123(R). Diluted net income per share for fiscal years 2006, 2005 and 2004 excluded the potentially dilutive effect of 8 million, 49 million and 41 million options to purchase common stock, respectively, as their effect was antidilutive. Fiscal year 2004 also excluded shares issuable upon conversion of our then outstanding $1.15 billion senior convertible debenture as the effect was not dilutive for this period, using the if-converted method pursuant to SFAS No. 128, "Earnings per Share". Our convertible debt was redeemed as of September 9, 2005 and therefore no longer outstanding nor part of the computation in 2006.
Net income (loss) per share.
 
We classify investments as cash equivalents if their original or remaining maturity is three months or less at the date of purchase. Cash equivalents are stated at cost, which approximates fair value.
Cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments.
 
Approximately 20 percent of our cash and cash equivalents is held in the U.S., and 60 percent is held in a centrally managed global cash pool outside the U.S. The remainder is held by other Agilent entities throughout the world. Approximately 8 percent of our overall cash and cash equivalents is maintained in demand deposit accounts with global financial institutions of high credit quality and is available to be used in paying and receiving activities. The remainder is invested in institutional money
market funds, short-term bank time deposits and similar short duration instruments with fixed maturities from overnight to three months. We continuously monitor the creditworthiness of the financial institutions and institutional money market funds in which we invest our surplus funds. We have not experienced any credit losses from cash investments.
 
We classify investments as short-term investments if their original or remaining maturities are greater than three months and their remaining maturities are one year or less. Our short-term investments consist of bank time deposits, which by their nature are typically held to maturity, and are classified as such because we have the intent and ability to hold them to maturity. Held-to-maturity securities are carried at amortized cost.
 
Restricted cash and cash equivalents was $1.6 billion in 2006, $22 million in 2005 and zero in 2004.
 
The carrying values of certain of our financial instruments, including cash and cash equivalents and short-term investments, accrued compensation and other accrued liabilities approximate fair value because of their short maturities. The fair value of equity investments is determined using quoted market prices for those securities where available.
Fair value of financial instruments.
 
We sell the majority of our products through our direct sales force. No single customer accounted for 10 percent or more of the combined accounts receivable balance at October 31, 2006 or 2005. Credit risk with respect to accounts receivable is generally diversified due to the large number of entities comprising our customer base and their dispersion across many different industries and geographies. We perform ongoing credit evaluations of our customers' financial conditions and require collateral, such as letters of credit and bank guarantees, in certain circumstances.
Concentration of credit risk.
 
Agilent is exposed to global market exchange rate risks in the normal course of business. We enter into foreign exchange contracts, primarily forward contracts and purchased options, to manage financial exposures resulting from changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These contracts are designated at inception as hedges of the related foreign currency exposures, which include committed and anticipated revenue and expense transactions and assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the functional currency of the subsidiary, which has the exposure. For option contracts, we exclude time value from the measurement of effectiveness. To achieve hedge accounting, contracts must reduce the foreign currency exchange rate risk otherwise inherent in the amount and duration of the hedged exposures and comply with established risk management policies; hedging contracts generally mature within twelve months. We do not use derivative financial instruments for speculative or trading purposes.
Derivative instruments.
 
The derivatives entered into by Agilent are designated either as cash flow or fair value hedges. All derivatives are recognized on the balance sheet at their fair values. For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as a fair value hedge, changes in value of the derivative are recognized in income in the current period, along with the offsetting gain or loss on the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk. For derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as a cash flow hedge, changes in the value of the effective portion of the derivative instrument are recognized in accumulated comprehensive income (loss), a component of stockholders' equity. These amounts are reclassified and recognized in income when either the forecasted transaction occurs or it becomes probable the forecasted transaction will not occur. Fair value hedges are recorded in net income and are offset by the changes in fair value of the underlying assets or liabilities being hedged. Changes in the fair value of the ineffective portion of derivative instruments are recognized in earnings in the current period. Ineffectiveness in 2006, 2005 and 2004 was not significant.
 
We may also, from time to time, acquire warrants or other equity types of securities to purchase securities of other companies as part of strategic relationships.
 
Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Additions, improvements and major renewals are capitalized; maintenance, repairs and minor renewals are expensed as incurred. When assets are retired or disposed of, the assets and related accumulated depreciation and amortization are removed from our general ledger, and the resulting gain or loss is reflected in the consolidated statement of operations. Buildings and improvements are depreciated over the lesser of their useful lives or the remaining term of the lease and machinery and equipment over three to ten years. We are currently using the straight-line method to depreciate assets.
Property, plant and equipment.
 
We lease buildings, machinery and equipment under operating leases for original terms ranging generally from 1 to 20 years. Certain leases contain renewal options for periods up to 20 years. These operating leases are accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 13, "Accounting for Leases."
Leases.
 
We capitalize certain internal and external costs incurred to acquire or create internal use software in accordance with AICPA Statement of Position 98-1, "Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use". Capitalized software is included in property, plant and equipment and is depreciated over three to five years when development is complete.
Capitalized software.
We continually monitor events and changes in circumstances that could indicate carrying amounts of long-lived assets, including intangible assets, may not be recoverable. When such events or changes in circumstances occur, we assess the recoverability of long-lived assets by determining whether the carrying value of such assets will be recovered through undiscounted expected future cash flows. If the total of the undiscounted future cash flows is less than the carrying amount of those assets, we recognize an impairment loss based on the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of the assets.
Impairment of long-lived assets.
 
  Amounts owed to employees, such as accrued salary, bonuses and vacation benefits are accounted for within employee compensation and benefits. The total amount of accrued vacation benefit was $133 million as of October 31, 2006 and $145 million as of October 31, 2005.
Employee compensation and benefits
 
We follow SFAS No. 52, "Foreign Currency Translation", for both the translation and remeasurement of balance sheet and income statement items into U.S. dollars. For those subsidiaries that operate in a local currency functional environment, all assets and liabilities are translated into U.S. dollars using current exchange rates; revenue and expenses are translated using average exchange rates in effect during each period. Resulting translation adjustments are reported as a separate component of accumulated comprehensive income (loss) in stockholders' equity.
Foreign currency translation.
 
For those subsidiaries that operate in a U.S. dollar functional environment, foreign currency assets and liabilities are remeasured into U.S. dollars at current exchange rates except for nonmonetary assets and capital accounts which are remeasured at historical exchange rates. Revenue and expenses are generally remeasured at monthly exchange rates which approximate average exchange rates in effect during each period. Gains or losses from foreign currency remeasurement are included in consolidated net income (loss).
 
2.
New Accounting Pronouncements
                                     
 
In December 2004, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 123 (R), which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense based on estimated fair value for all share-based payment awards including stock options, employee stock purchases under employee stock purchase plans, non-vested share awards (restricted stock) and stock appreciation rights. SFAS No. 123 (R) supersedes our previous accounting under APB No. 25. In March 2005, the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin ("SAB") No. 107, which provides the Staff's views regarding implementation issues related to SFAS No. 123 (R).
 
We adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123 (R) using the modified prospective transition method beginning November 1, 2005, the first day of fiscal 2006. In accordance with that transition method, we have not restated prior periods for the effect of compensation expense calculated under SFAS No. 123 (R). We have selected the Black-Scholes option-pricing model as the most appropriate method for determining the estimated fair value of all our awards, except for the non-vested performance shares under the LTPP. For the LTPP, we are using a Monte Carlo simulation to estimate grant date fair value as required by SFAS No. 123 (R). Compensation expense for all share-based equity awards issued after November 1, 2005 is being recognized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period of the award. For awards issued prior to November 1, 2005, we are recognizing compensation expense based on the accelerated method described in FASB Interpretation No. 28 "Accounting for Stock Appreciation Rights and Other Variable Stock Option or Award Plans" ("FIN No. 28"). The adoption of SFAS No. 123 (R) also requires additional accounting related to income taxes and earnings per share as well as additional disclosure related to the cash flow effects resulting from share-based compensation. The adoption of SFAS No. 123 (R) had a material impact on our consolidated financial statements in 2006, and is expected to continue to materially impact our financial statements in the foreseeable future. See Note 5, "Share-Based Compensation" for more information on the impact of the new standard.
 
In November 2005, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ("FSP") SFAS No. 123 (R)-3, "Transition Election Related to Accounting for the Tax Effects of Share-Based Payment Awards," ("FSP SFAS No. 123 (R)-3"). FSP SFAS No. 123 (R)-3 provides a practical exception when a company transitions to the accounting requirements in SFAS No. 123 (R). SFAS No. 123 (R) requires a company to calculate the pool of excess tax benefits available to absorb tax deficiencies recognized subsequent to adopting SFAS No. 123 (R) (termed the APIC Pool), assuming the company had been following the recognition provisions prescribed by SFAS No. 123. We have elected to use the guidance in FSP SFAS No. 123 (R)-3 to calculate our APIC Pool. FSP SFAS No. 123 (R)-3 was effective immediately. The adoption of the FSP did not have an impact on our overall results of operations or financial position.
In June 2006, the FASB issued Emerging Issues Task Force ("EITF") Issue No. 06-3, "How Sales Taxes Collected from Customers and Remitted to Governmental Authorities Should Be Presented in the Income Statement (That Is, Gross Versus Net Presentation)," ("EITF No. 06-3"). EITF No. 06-3 requires disclosure of accounting policy regarding the gross or net presentation of point-of-sales taxes such as sales tax and value-added tax. If taxes included in gross revenues are significant, the amount of such taxes for each period for which an income statement is presented should also be disclosed. EITF No. 06-3 will be effective for the first annual or interim reporting period after December 15, 2006. EITF No. 06-3 requires retrospective application. We will be adopting this pronouncement beginning in the first quarter of fiscal year 2007, and we do not expect it to have an impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
 
In July 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Income Tax Uncertainties" ("FIN No. 48"). FIN No. 48 defines the threshold for recognizing the benefits of tax return positions in the financial statements as "more-likely-than-not" to be sustained by the taxing authority and provides guidance on the derecognition, measurement and classification of income tax uncertainties, along with any related interest and penalties. FIN No. 48 also includes guidance concerning accounting for income tax uncertainties in interim periods and increases the level of disclosures associated with any recorded income tax uncertainties. FIN No. 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. The differences between the amounts recognized in the statements of financial position prior to the adoption of FIN No. 48 and the amounts reported after adoption will be accounted for as a cumulative-effect adjustment recorded to the beginning balance of retained earnings. We are currently evaluating the impact of FIN No. 48 on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
 
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 157, "Fair Value Measurements" ("SFAS No. 157"). SFAS No. 157 establishes a single authoritative definition of fair value, sets out a framework for measuring fair value, and requires additional disclosures about fair-value measurements. SFAS No. 157 applies only to fair value measurements that are already required or permitted by other accounting standards (except for measurements of share-based payments) and is expected to increase the consistency of those measurements. SFAS No. 157 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007, and interim periods within those fiscal years. SFAS No. 157 will be applied prospectively with some exceptions that will be accounted for as a cumulative-effect adjustment. We are currently evaluating the impact of SFAS No. 157 on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
 
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)" ("SFAS No. 158"), which requires companies to recognize a net liability or asset to report the funded status of their defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans on their balance sheets. Except for the measurement date requirement, SFAS No. 158 is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2006. The measurement date requirement will not be effective until fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008. SFAS No. 158 will be applied prospectively. We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting SFAS No. 158 on our consolidated financial position.
 
In September 2006, the Staff of the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108, "Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements" ("SAB No. 108"). SAB No. 108 provides guidance on the consideration of the effects of prior year misstatements in quantifying current year misstatements for the purpose of determining whether the current year's financial statements are materially misstated. SAB No. 108 is effective for fiscal years ending on or after November 15, 2006 with earlier adoption encouraged and will be accounted for as a cumulative-effect adjustment. We are currently evaluating the impact of SAB No. 108 on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
 
3.
Discontinued Operations of Our Semiconductor Products Business
                                     
 
On December 1, 2005, we completed the divestiture of our semiconductor products business to Avago Technologies Ltd. ("Avago"). Under the terms of the Asset Purchase Agreement ("APA"), Agilent received approximately $2,559 million in cash proceeds. The following table shows the components of the gain from sale of discontinued operations, net of taxes as of October 31, 2006:
 
 
Subsequent to the quarter ended January 31, 2006, we adjusted the gain on sale of discontinued operations by $23 million which includes $21 million for working capital and other adjustments and $2 million for the disposal of fixed assets. The $36 million costs of disposition are reported net of a gain of $51 million for pension curtailments and settlements. The tax impact of the sale of our semiconductor products business reflects the utilization of the valuation allowance within the U.S. and a low effective tax rate in other jurisdictions.
 
Our consolidated financial statements reflect our semiconductor products business as a discontinued operation in accordance with SFAS No.144, "Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets."
 
The following table summarizes results from discontinued operations of our semiconductor products business for the periods ended October 31 included in the consolidated statement of operations:
 
 
The following table presents Agilent's semiconductor products business assets and liabilities classified as discontinued operations:
 
 
The following table presents Agilent's semiconductor products business's book value of net assets disposed of as of November 30, 2005:
 
 
 
In accordance with SFAS No. 142 "Goodwill and other Intangibles" ("SFAS No. 142"), approximately $98 million of goodwill associated with the semiconductor products business was eliminated and recorded as a reduction to the gain on sale of discontinued operations.
 
Indemnifications to Avago
 
In connection with the sale of our semiconductor products business in December 2005, we agreed to indemnify Avago, its affiliates and other related parties against damages that it might incur in the future. These indemnifications primarily cover damages relating to liabilities of the businesses that Agilent retained and did not transfer to Avago, as well as pre-closing taxes and other specified items. Agilent's indemnification for representations and warranties made to Avago are generally limited to 10 percent of the purchase price and survive until March 31, 2007.
 
4.
Discontinued Operations of Our Semiconductor Test Solutions Business
                                     
 
On August 15, 2005, Agilent announced its intention to separate its semiconductor test solutions business, Verigy, into a stand-alone publicly traded company. During the third quarter of fiscal 2006, Verigy completed the initial public offering ("IPO") of 8.7 million of its ordinary shares at a price of $15 per share for total net proceeds of $121 million. As part of the offering, Agilent made a payment to Verigy of $19 million, the amount by which the net IPO proceeds were insufficient to complete the agreed-upon Verigy initial capitalization of $140 million. Following the offering, Agilent owned approximately 50 million shares or 85 percent of Verigy's ordinary shares. As a result of the IPO, Agilent recorded additional paid-in capital of $74 million related to the excess of the IPO price over the book value of the shares sold. Underwriter fees related to the IPO were approximately $9 million which were netted against the proceeds. Agilent recorded direct IPO costs of $2 million within operating expenses related to third-party legal fees, filing fees and other services.
 
On October 31, 2006, Agilent completed the spin-off of Verigy by distributing its remaining 85 percent equity interest in Verigy to Agilent stockholders. The spin-off was effected by way of a pro rata non-cash dividend to Agilent stockholders, which reduced retained earnings by $310 million. In the distribution, Agilent distributed to its stockholders .122435 of an ordinary share of Verigy for each outstanding share of Agilent common stock owned as of close of market on October 16, 2006. In the aggregate, Agilent distributed 50 million Verigy ordinary shares to Agilent stockholders. Based on the closing price for Verigy ordinary shares on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on October 31, 2006 of $16.80 per share, the aggregate market value of the shares distributed in the distribution was approximately $840 million. The historical results of Verigy have been reflected as discontinued operations in the underlying financial statements and related disclosures for all periods presented.
The following table summarizes results from discontinued operations of our semiconductor test solutions business for the presented periods ended October 31 included in the consolidated statement of operations:
 
 
The following table presents Agilent's semiconductor test solutions business assets and liabilities classified as discontinued operations as of October 31, 2005:
 
 
 
The following table presents Agilent's book value of net assets eliminated due to the distribution as of October 31, 2006:
 
 
Prior to the distribution of Verigy shares, Verigy and Agilent, and, in some cases, their respective subsidiaries, entered into agreements providing for the June 1, 2006 separation of the semiconductor test solutions business from Agilent, including a master separation and distribution agreement. These agreements cover a variety of matters, including the transfer, ownership and licensing of intellectual property and other assets and liabilities relating to Verigy's businesses, the use of shared facilities, employee and tax-related matters and the transitional services Agilent will provide to Verigy. In addition, an ancillary agreement provided for a $25 million revolving credit facility from Agilent to Verigy on the separation date with interest at one-month LIBOR plus 50 basis points. All amounts were repaid back and the credit facility has expired. The agreements relating to the separation from Agilent have been negotiated in the context of a parent-subsidiary relationship. Per the transitional services agreement, the majority of the services Agilent provided to Verigy upon separation terminated prior to the distribution date.
Indemnifications to Verigy
 
In connection with the spin-off of Verigy, we agreed to indemnify Verigy and its affiliates against damages which it might incur in the future. These indemnifications primarily cover damages relating to liabilities of the businesses that Agilent retained and did not transfer to Verigy, liabilities that might arise under limited portions of Verigy's IPO materials that relate to Agilent, and costs and expenses incurred by Agilent or Verigy to effect the IPO, arising out of the distribution of Agilent's remaining holding in Verigy ordinary shares to Agilent's stockholders, or incurred to effect the separation of the semiconductor test solutions business from Agilent to the extent incurred prior to the separation on June 1, 2006.
 
5.
Share-Based Compensation
                                     
 
Effective November 1, 2005, Agilent adopted the provisions of SFAS No. 123 (R) which requires the measurement and recognition of compensation expense for all share-based payment awards made to our employees and directors including employee stock option awards, employee stock purchases made under our ESPP and performance share awards granted to selected members of our senior management under the LTPP based on estimated fair values. Agilent previously applied the provisions of APB No. 25 and related Interpretations and provided the required pro forma disclosures under SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation," ("SFAS No. 123").
 
Description of Share-Based Plans
 
Effective November 1, 2000, we adopted the ESPP. Under the provisions of the ESPP, eligible employees may contribute up to ten percent of their base compensation to purchase shares of our common stock at 85 percent of the lower of the fair market value at the entry date or the purchase date as defined by the ESPP. The ESPP has a maximum contractual term of two years. As of October 31, 2006, securities authorized and available for issuance in connection with our ESPP were 23,341,919. Shares authorized for issuance in connection with the ESPP are subject to an automatic annual increase of the lesser of one percent of the outstanding common stock of Agilent or an amount determined by the Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors. Under the terms of the ESPP, in no event shall the number of shares authorized for issuance in connection with the ESPP exceed 75 million shares.
Employee stock purchase plans.
 
On September 17, 1999, we adopted the Agilent Technologies, Inc. 1999 Stock Plan (the "Stock Plan") and subsequently reserved 67,800,000 shares of our common stock for issuance under the Stock Plan. In addition, on May 31, 2000, 19,000,000 shares of our common stock were registered pursuant to converted stock options previously granted by HP. In February 2001, our stockholders approved an additional 45,000,000 shares of our common stock for issuance under the Stock Plan. These shares were subsequently registered in May 2002. At October 31, 2006, shares registered and available for option and restricted stock grants were 36,639,572.
Incentive compensation plans.
 
Stock options, stock appreciation rights, stock awards and cash awards may be granted under the Stock Plan. Options granted under the Stock Plan may be either "incentive stock options", as defined in section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code, or non-statutory. Options generally vest at a rate of 25 percent per year over a period of four years from the date of grant and generally have a maximum contractual term of ten years. The exercise price for stock options is generally not less than 100 percent of the fair market value of our common stock on the date the stock award is granted.
 
On March 4, 2003, our stockholders approved an amendment to the Stock Plan. The amendment permitted the company to offer a one-time exchange of options issued under the Stock Plan having an exercise price greater than $25 for a lesser number of options to be granted at least six months and one day from the cancellation of surrendered options (the "Option Exchange Program"). On May 20, 2003, we implemented the Option Exchange Program by filing a Tender Offer Statement with the SEC, which allowed eligible employees a one-time opportunity to exchange options to purchase shares of the company's common stock, whether vested or unvested, which were granted under our Stock Plan, with exercise prices greater than $25 per share. The Option Exchange Program was offered from May 20, 2003 to June 18, 2003 and options to purchase approximately 26 million shares were exchanged, with an average exercise price of $51. As a result, the company issued options to purchase approximately 13.8 million shares at a weighted-average exercise price of $28 per share during the first quarter of 2004. Under the provisions of APB No. 25 no compensation expense was recognized in our consolidated statement of operations for issuance of the replacement options for fiscal years ended 2005 and 2004. As a result of the SFAS No. 123 (R) adoption, in fiscal year ended 2006, we recognized approximately $3 million in our consolidated statement of operations for the issuance of these replacement options.
Effective November 1, 2003, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approved the LTPP for the company's executive officers and other key employees beginning in 2006. Participants in this program are entitled to receive unrestricted shares of the company's stock after the end of a three-year period, if specified performance targets are met. The maximum contractual term for awards under the LTPP plan is three years. The following table summarizes the shares approved by the Compensation Committee to be issued under the LTPP:
 
 
In all cases, the final award may vary as it is based on certain performance metrics. We consider the dilutive impact of this program in our diluted net income per share calculation only to the extent that the performance conditions are met.
 
Pro forma Information for Periods Prior to the Adoption of SFAS No. 123 (R)
 
Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123 (R), Agilent provided the disclosures required under SFAS No. 123, as amended by SFAS No. 148, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation  Transition and Disclosures." No employee share-based compensation expense was reflected in our results from continuing operations in 2005 and 2004 for employee stock option awards as all options were granted with an exercise price equal to the market value of the underlying common stock on the date of grant. Our ESPP was deemed non-compensatory under the provisions of APB No. 25. Compensation expense for the non-vested performance shares granted under the LTPP was recognized based on the grant date fair value for the respective grants. Forfeitures of awards were recognized as they occurred. We recorded APB No. 25 compensation expense in continuing operations of $8 million in 2005 and $7 million in 2004. The APB No. 25 compensation expense in 2005 and 2004 primarily related to our LTPP. In August 2005 our Board of Directors approved a modification to the terms of the options held by employees of our semiconductor products business to effect the acceleration of vesting for all unvested options held by employees of that business, effective as of the date of the sale of the semiconductor products business to Avago. In connection with this modification, we recorded $8 million of compensation expense in discontinued operations.
 
The pro forma information for share-based compensation in 2005 and 2004 was as follows:
 
 
The pro forma results in 2005 and 2004 include approximately $32 million and $70 million of pro forma compensation expense relating to our Option Exchange Program, respectively. The remainder of the expense for those periods related to awards granted over the previous four years.
 
Due to the valuation allowance provided on our net deferred tax assets as described in Note 8, "Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes from Continuing Operations", we did not record any tax benefits attributable to pro forma share-based compensation expenses for employees in the U.S. and certain other foreign jurisdictions in 2005 and 2004. The tax impact presented above was computed for both the APB No. 25 and SFAS No. 123 share-based compensation expense.
Impact of SFAS No. 123 (R)
 
Agilent adopted SFAS No. 123 (R) using the modified prospective transition method beginning November 1, 2005. Accordingly, in 2006, we recorded share-based compensation expense for awards granted prior to but not yet vested as of November 1, 2005 as if the fair value method required for pro forma disclosure under SFAS No. 123 were in effect for expense recognition purposes adjusted for estimated forfeitures. The effect of forfeitures on the unamortized compensation expense of pre-adoption awards was not material. For these awards, we have continued to recognize compensation expense using the accelerated amortization method under FIN No. 28. For share-based awards granted after November 1, 2005 we have recognized compensation expense based on the estimated grant date fair value method required under SFAS No. 123 (R). For these awards we have recognized compensation expense using a straight-line amortization method. As SFAS No. 123 (R) requires that share-based compensation expense be based on awards that are ultimately expected to vest, estimated share-based compensation in 2006 has been reduced for estimated forfeitures. Amounts previously reported prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123 (R) have not been restated.
 
The impact on our results for share-based compensation in 2006 was as follows:
 
 
 
At October 31, 2006 there was no share-based compensation capitalized within inventory as it was immaterial. Total income tax benefit recognized in 2006 in the statement of operations for share-based compensation was immaterial. The weighted average grant date fair value of options, as determined under SFAS No. 123 (R), granted in 2006 was $10.46 per share. The total fair value of shares vested in 2006 was $216 million. In 2006 the windfall tax benefit realized from exercised stock options and similar awards was immaterial. As of October 31, 2006, the total unrecorded deferred share-based compensation balance for non-vested shares, net of expected forfeitures, was approximately $88 million which is expected to be amortized over a weighted-average period of 2.3 years.
 
Included in income from and gain on sale of discontinued operations of our semiconductor products business and recorded under the provisions of SFAS No. 123 (R) for the fiscal year ended 2006 is approximately $3 million of share-based compensation expense in connection with the 2005 modification to the terms of the options held by employees of our divested semiconductor products business.
Included in income from discontinued operations of our semiconductor test solutions business and recorded under the provisions of SFAS No. 123 (R) is $9 million of share-based compensation expense for Agilent options held by Verigy employees and $2 million of new Verigy awards that were issued prior to the final distribution of Verigy shares by Agilent. As a result of the final distribution of Verigy shares by Agilent which took place on October 31, 2006, non-vested Agilent stock options held by Verigy employees were cancelled. Vested Agilent stock options held by Verigy employees will have a period of up to three months in which to exercise the Agilent options before such options are cancelled. Retirement eligible Verigy employees will have a period of up to three years in which to exercise the Agilent options before such options are cancelled. To the extent that the Agilent options were not vested as of the distribution date, Verigy issued replacement Verigy awards.
 
Valuation Assumptions
 
For all periods presented, the fair value of share-based awards for employee stock option awards, restricted stock and employee stock purchases made under our ESPP was estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. In 2006, shares granted under the LTPP were valued using a Monte Carlo simulation. In 2005 and 2004, shares granted under the LTPP were valued using the variable accounting method under APB No. 25.
 
The weighted average assumptions used for options granted, ESPP purchases and the LTPP in 2006, 2005 and 2004 was as follows:
 
 
 
Both the Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo simulation fair value models require the use of highly subjective and complex assumptions, including the option's expected life and the price volatility of the underlying stock. Beginning November 1, 2005, the expected stock price volatility assumption was determined using the implied volatility for our stock. Prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 123 (R), we used a combination of historical and implied volatility in deriving our expected volatility assumption. We have determined that implied volatility is more reflective of market conditions and a better indicator of expected volatility than a combined method of determining volatility. We consider several factors in estimating the expected life of our options granted, including the expected lives used by a peer group of companies and the historical option exercise behavior of our employees, which we believe are representative of future behavior.
Share-Based Payment Award Activity
 
The following table summarizes equity share-based payment award activity in 2006:
 
 
The plan shares expired per the above table represent cancelled options granted under the HP stock option plan that are not added back to our available for grant options as the plan shares expire after cancellation and are not reissuable.
 
Forfeited and expired options in 2006, 2005 and 2004 were as follows:
 
 
The options outstanding exercisable for equity share-based payment awards at October 31, 2006 were as follows:
 
 
The aggregate intrinsic value in the table above represents the total pre-tax intrinsic value, based on the company's closing stock price of $35.60 at October 31, 2006, which would have been received by award holders had all award holders exercised their awards that were in-the-money as of that date. The total number of in-the-money awards exercisable at October 31, 2006 was approximately 33 million.
The following table summarizes options exercised and the weighted average fair value of options granted in 2006, 2005 and 2004:
 
 
The amount of cash received from the exercise of share-based awards granted was $547 million in 2006, $198 million in 2005 and $137 million in 2004. See Note 8, "Provision (Benefit) for Income Taxes from Continuing Operations" for the tax impact on share- based award exercises.
 
6.
Other Income (Expense), Net
                                     
 
The following table presents the components of other income (expense), net in 2006, 2005 and 2004:
 
 
 
Interest income is derived principally from short-term commercial paper for our restricted investments and the investment of our surplus cash balances in bank time deposits and other money market instruments. Income from Foreign Sales Corporation Tax Study was earned pursuant to an agreement with Hewlett-Packard to provide assistance with a Foreign Sales Corporation Maximization Study for years prior to the 2000 spin-off of Agilent from Hewlett-Packard. For its services, Agilent earned a fee which was contingent on related tax benefits being realized.
 
7.
Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliate and Gain on Sale  Lumileds
                                     
 
Lumileds Lighting International, B.V. ("Lumileds"), was a global joint venture between Agilent and Koninklijke Philips Electronics N.V. ("Philips") under a Second Amended and Restated Joint Venture Agreement (the "Joint Venture Agreement"), dated as of November 29, 2004, between Agilent and Philips. Lumileds manufactures high-power light emitting diodes and solid-state lighting solutions. Our ownership interest in Lumileds was approximately 47 percent as of October 31, 2005, after selling 1 percent of our interest to Philips in the second quarter of 2005. Our equity in the net income of our unconsolidated affiliate including the gain on sale of our interest in Lumileds was $901 million in 2006, $42 million in 2005 and $29 million in 2004.
 
On November 28, 2005, we completed the sale of our stake in Lumileds. Pursuant to the Share Purchase Agreement, upon closure of the sale transaction, the Joint Venture Agreement and the ancillary agreements were terminated. The purchase price paid by Philips under the Share Purchase Agreement was $949 million. In addition, Lumileds repaid the $51 million of outstanding principal debt and accrued interest due to us as of the date of sale under the Credit Agreement, dated as of November 30, 2001.
The following table shows the components of the gain from sale of Lumileds, net of income tax (in millions):
 
 
The tax impact of the sale of our Lumileds joint venture primarily reflects the utilization of valuation allowances within the U.S.
 
8.
Provision (Benefit) For Income Taxes From Continuing Operations
                                     
 
The provision (benefit) for income taxes from continuing operations is comprised of:
 
 
The federal and state provisions do not reflect tax savings resulting from deductions associated with our stock option plans.
 
The significant components of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities included on the consolidated balance sheet are:
 
The consolidated balance sheet reflects the allocation of the valuation allowance based on the pro-rata portion of gross current and non-current deferred tax assets in each jurisdiction where a valuation allowance is required. During 2003, we established valuation allowances for the deferred tax assets of the U.S. and selected entities in foreign jurisdictions. The valuation allowances were determined in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 109, which require an assessment of both positive and negative evidence when determining whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets are recoverable. Such assessment is required on a jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction basis. Cumulative losses incurred in the U.S. and certain entities in foreign jurisdictions in recent years represented sufficient negative evidence to require full valuation allowances. We intend to maintain full valuation allowances until sufficient positive evidence exists to support reversal.
 
At October 31, 2006, we had federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $256 million and tax credit carryforwards of approximately $145 million. The federal net operating losses expire in years beginning 2007 through 2021, if not utilized. The federal tax credits expire beginning in 2007 through 2026, if not utilized. In addition, the company has state tax credit carryforwards of $133 million. State tax credits of $18 million expire beginning in 2007 through 2018, if not utilized. A portion of the federal and state net operating losses and certain tax credit carryforwards are subject to change of ownership limitations provided by the Internal Revenue Code and similar state provisions. These annual loss limitations may result in the expiration or reduced utilization of the net operating losses and/or credits. At October 31, 2006, we also had foreign net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $390 million. Of this foreign loss, $127 million will expire in years beginning 2011 through 2014, if not utilized. The remaining $263 million has an indefinite life. Some of the foreign losses are subject to annual loss limitation rules.
 
Net deferred tax assets of approximately $79 million at October 31, 2006 and approximately $32 million at October 31, 2005 pertain to net operating loss carryforwards resulting from the exercise of employee stock options, which have been fully offset by a valuation allowance. When recognized, the reversal of the valuation allowance will be accounted for as a credit to shareholders' equity rather than as a reduction of the income tax provision.
 
The differences between the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate and our effective tax rate from continuing operations are:
 
 
The domestic and foreign components of income (loss) earnings from continuing operations before taxes are:
 
 
The income tax provision for 2006 includes a benefit of $29 million related to the resolution of domestic tax-related issues for years covered by a Tax Sharing Agreement between Agilent and Hewlett-Packard. The Tax Sharing Agreement is related to the 2000 spin-off of Agilent from Hewlett-Packard.
 
On October 22, 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ("AJCA") was signed into law. The AJCA creates a temporary incentive for U.S. corporations to repatriate accumulated income earned abroad by providing an 85 percent dividends received deduction for certain dividends from controlled foreign corporations. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, we distributed cash from our foreign subsidiaries and reported an extraordinary dividend (as defined in the AJCA) of $970 million and a related
tax liability of approximately $48 million in our fiscal 2005 federal and state income tax returns. For fiscal 2005, $23 million of the $48 million is provided for in the discontinuing operations' provision for income taxes while the remaining is provided for in the continuing operations' provision for income taxes.
 
Agilent has not recorded deferred income taxes on the undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries. Our policy is to continue to invest the undistributed earnings of our foreign subsidiaries indefinitely outside of the United States, with the exception of the amounts repatriated in the year ended October 31, 2005 under the AJCA. If management decides to remit this income to the U.S. in a future period, our provision for income taxes may increase materially in that period.
 
Agilent enjoys tax holidays in several different jurisdictions, most significantly in Singapore, Malaysia and Switzerland. The tax holidays provide lower rates of taxation on certain classes of income and require various thresholds of investments and employment in those jurisdictions. During the years 2003 through 2006, Agilent enjoyed tax holidays that applied to manufacturing income generated in Malaysia and Singapore. The tax holidays in both Malaysia and Singapore expire in 2013. In 2004, Agilent secured a reduced tax rate in Switzerland for income generated from activity that Agilent began in Switzerland during that year. The tax holiday expires in 2013. Also in 2004, Agilent secured an additional Singapore tax holiday for earnings from investments and related activity that began in 2004. The tax holiday applies to applicable earnings of Agilent until the end of 2013, with the opportunity for a reduced rate thereafter.
 
As a result of the incentives, the impact of the tax holidays decreased income taxes by $76 million, $54 million and $96 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The benefit of the tax holidays on net income per share (diluted) was approximately $0.17, $0.11 and $0.20 in 2006, 2005 and 2003, respectively.
 
We are subject to ongoing tax examinations of our tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service and other tax authorities in various jurisdictions. We regularly assess the likelihood of adverse outcomes resulting from these examinations to determine the adequacy of our provision for income taxes. These assessments can require considerable estimates and judgments. If our estimate of income tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would be required. If events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary.
 
9.
Net Income (Loss) Per Share
                                     
 
The following is a reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted net income (loss) per share computations for the periods presented below.
 
 
In computing diluted net income per share under the treasury stock method, we elected to use the transition election of FSP SFAS No. 123 (R)-3 to determine the pool of windfall tax benefits as of the adoption of SFAS No. 123 (R). For further details see Note 2, "New Accounting Pronouncements." The total number of awards exercised in 2006, 2005 and 2004 was 19 million, 5 million and 3 million, respectively.
 
In connection with the October 31, 2006 Verigy distribution, on November 1, 2006 Agilent distributed .122435 of an ordinary share of Verigy for each outstanding share of Agilent common stock owned as of October 16, 2006 to Agilent's stockholders. In addition, under the anti-dilution provision of the 1999 Stock Plan, on November 1, 2006 Agilent adjusted the exercise price downward and number of option shares upward for each outstanding employee stock option to preserve the value of the options after the Verigy spin-off. For further details on the distribution see Note 5, "Share-Based Compensation."
The following table presents options to purchase shares of common stock, which were not included in the computation of diluted net income per share because they were anti-dilutive.
 
 
The computation of diluted net income per share for the fiscal year 2004 does not include 36 million shares issuable upon conversion of our then outstanding $1.15 billion senior convertible debenture as the effect was not dilutive for this period, using the if-converted method pursuant to SFAS No. 128, "Earnings per Share". Our convertible debt was redeemed as of September 9, 2005 and therefore not part of the computation in 2006.
 
10.
Supplemental Cash Flow Information
                              
 
Cash paid for income taxes was $156 million in 2006, $75 million in 2005 and $149 million in 2004. Cash paid for interest was $55 million in 2006, $44 million in 2005 and $36 million in 2004. In 2006, we spent $25 million as debt issuance costs related to our long-term debt of $1.5 billion and amortized $4 million in interest expense during 2006.
 
Non cash transactions in 2005 primarily related to the conversion of approximately $466 million of the principal amount of convertible debt into common stock. In addition, accrued interest of approximately $4 million relating to the convertible debt was recorded in equity as part of the cost of the new shares issued. Non-cash transactions in 2004 related primarily to an acquisition in October 2004 and we issued approximately 772,000 shares with an approximate value of $18 million.
 
11.
Restricted Cash and Cash Equivalents
                              
 
As of October 31, 2006, $1,606 million was reported as restricted cash and cash equivalents on our consolidated balance sheet. Of this amount, $1,582 million was short-term restricted commercial paper maintained in connection with our obligations to a counterparty pursuant to the Master Repurchase Agreement and related Confirmation entered into on January 27, 2006 and reported as long-term debt on our consolidated balance sheet. See Note 21, "Long-Term Debt and Credit Facilities."
 
12.
Inventory
                              
 
 
Inventory-related charges of $38 million, $59 million and $16 million were recorded in total cost of products in 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. We record excess and obsolete inventory charges for both inventory on our site as well as inventory at our contract manufacturers and suppliers where we have non-cancelable purchase commitments.
 
13.
Property, Plant and Equipment, Net
                              
 
 
We sold our San Jose site for a total consideration of $88 million and recorded a gain of $56 million during the second quarter of 2006. In May 2006, we completed the sale of our Palo Alto site for a total consideration of $98.5 million and recorded a gain of $65 million. Asset impairments other than restructuring were zero in 2006, $4 million in 2005, and zero in 2004. Depreciation expenses for continuing operations were $141 million in 2006, $163 million in 2005 and $189 million in 2004.
 
14.
Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets
                              
 
The goodwill balances at October 31, 2006 and 2005 and the movements in 2006 and 2005 for each of our reportable segments are shown in the table below:
 
 
The component parts of other intangibles assets at October 31, 2006 and 2005 are shown in the table below:
 
 
We purchased $69 million of other intangibles and recorded $76 million of goodwill during 2006.
 
In February 2006, we acquired the remaining 49 percent minority interest in Yokogawa Analytical Systems, a joint venture between Agilent and Yokogawa Electrical Corporation. This acquisition resulted in the recording of $43 million in intangible assets and $60 million of goodwill. In addition, during 2006 we recorded two acquisitions, one earn out payment on an acquisition completed in 2005, and one joint venture buyout payment. Pro forma disclosures are not presented for these transactions as they were not material.
 
Amortization of intangible assets was $24 million in 2006, $13 million in 2005 and $17 million in 2004. Future amortization expense related to existing intangible assets is estimated to be $27 million in 2007, $19 million in 2008, $12 million in 2009, $10 million in 2010, $7 million in 2011 and $8 million thereafter.
15.
Investments
                              
 
Investments in cost basis and equity method investments and securities classified as trading securities or available-for-sale and included in other assets on our consolidated balance sheet were as follows at October 31, 2006 and 2005 (net book value):
 
 
Cost method investments consist of non-marketable equity securities and are accounted for at historical cost. For investments where we have significant influence over the investee, the equity method of accounting is used. Agilent's proportionate share of income or loss for equity method investments was recorded currently in earnings. Trading securities are reported at fair value, with gains or losses resulting from changes in fair value recognized currently in operating earnings. Investments designated as available-for-sale are reported at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, included in stockholders' equity.
 
All of our investments (excluding trading securities) are subject to periodic impairment review. However, the impairment analysis requires significant judgment to identify events or circumstances that would likely have significant adverse effect on the future value of the investment.
 
Charges related to other than temporary impairments were $1 million in 2006, $18 million in 2005 and $15 million in 2004. These impairment charges were recorded in other income (expense), net in the consolidated statement of operations.
 
Unrealized gains and losses on our trading securities portfolio were $6 million gain in 2006 and $5 million gain in both 2005 and 2004. Realized gains and losses from the sale of available-for-sale securities was $9 million in 2006, $8 million in 2005 and zero in 2004. Realized gains and losses from the sale of held-to-maturity securities was $2 million in 2006, zero in 2005 and zero in 2004.
 
In the first quarter of fiscal year 2006, we sold our remaining interest in Lumileds to Philips. See Note 7, "Equity in Net Income of Unconsolidated Affiliate and Gain on Sale  Lumileds "for further details.
 
16.
Retirement Plans and Post Retirement Pension Plans
                              
 
Substantially all of our employees are covered under various defined benefit and/or defined contribution plans. Additionally, we sponsor post-retirement health care benefits and a death benefit under the Agilent Survivor Protection Plan for our eligible U.S. employees.
General.
 
Agilent provides U.S. employees, who meet eligibility criteria under the retirement and deferred profit-sharing plans, defined benefits which are generally based on an employee's highest five consecutive years' average pay during the years of employment and on length of service. For eligible service through October 31, 1993, the benefit payable under the Agilent Retirement Plan is reduced by any amounts due to the eligible employee under our defined contribution Deferred Profit-Sharing Plan ("DPSP"), which was closed to new participants as of November 1993.
 
As of October 31, 2006 and 2005, the fair value of plan assets and the total projected benefit obligation of the DPSP for U.S. Agilent Employees were $726 million and $826 million, respectively.
 
Eligible employees outside the U.S. generally receive retirement benefits under various retirement plans based upon factors such as years of service and employee compensation levels. Eligibility is generally determined in accordance with local statutory requirements. Our U.S. retirees who retired prior to January 1, 2005, are also covered by a lump sum death benefit that is part of the Retiree Survivor's Benefit Plan. In July 2004, the Retiree Survivor's Benefit Plan was revised to eliminate the $5,000 Retiree Survivor Benefit for all U.S. retirees who retire on or after January 1, 2005.
 
Our U.S. eligible employees may participate in the Agilent Technologies, Inc. 401(k) Plan (the "401(k) Plan"). Enrollment in the 401(k) Plan is automatic for employees who meet eligibility requirements unless they decline participation. Under the 401(k) Plan, we provide matching contributions to employees up to a maximum of 4 percent of an employee's annual eligible compensation. The maximum contribution to the 401(k) Plan is 50 percent of an employee's annual eligible compensation, subject to regulatory and plan limitations. The 401(k) Plan expense included in income (loss) from continuing operations was $26 million in 2006, $25 million in 2005 and $25 million in 2004.
401(k) defined contribution plan.
 
In addition to receiving pension benefits, our U.S. employees who meet retirement eligibility requirements as of their termination dates may participate in our Non-Medicare Medical or Medicare Medical Plans (the "Post-retirement Medical Plans") under the Agilent Health Plan. Current U.S. employees may become
Post-retirement medical benefit plans.
eligible for these benefits, and the existing benefit obligation relates primarily to those employees. Once participating in a medical plan, retirees may choose from managed-care and indemnity options, with their contributions dependent on the options chosen and length of service.
 
In July 2004, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors approved design changes to Agilent's Post-retirement Medical Plans. One option available to existing post-65 retirees is a new Medicare Supplement Plan in 2005. The Medicare Supplement Plan supplements Medicare coverage by reimbursing Medicare Parts A and B deductibles at 100 percent after Medicare pays its portion of the retiree's expenses. The Post-retirement Medical Plan for a majority of future retirees was revised to establish retiree medical accounts for the benefit of such retirees and will be funded with amounts as determined by Agilent.
Plan amendments.
 
In December 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 ("the Act") was passed which expands Medicare to include an outpatient prescription drug benefit beginning in 2006. In May 2004, the FASB issued FSP 106-2, "Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003", which provides guidance on how companies should account for the impact of the Act on its postretirement healthcare plans. Beginning in 2006, the federal government provides a non-taxable subsidy to employers that sponsor prescription drug benefits to retirees that are "actuarially equivalent" to Medicare Part D benefits. We have determined that the prescription drug benefits offered under our plans qualify for this subsidy and assuming that we will continue to offer these benefits, we have reflected the expected subsidy according to the guidance in FSP 106-2 prospectively in our financial statements. The adoption of FSP 106-2 had no material impact on our accumulated postretirement benefit obligation or net plan costs.
Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003.
 
For the years ended October 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, our net pension and post-retirement benefit costs were comprised of:
Components of net periodic cost.
 
 
As of December 1, 2005, due to the divestiture of the semiconductor products business, we recorded curtailments and settlements as required by SFAS No. 88, "Employers' Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits," ("SFAS No. 88") and as required under the SFAS No. 106, "Employers' Accounting for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions," ("SFAS No. 106"). The impact to the U.S. Plans and the U.S. Post Retirement Benefit Plan was curtailment gains of $22 million and $21 million, recorded in discontinued operations. The impact on the Non-U.S. Plans was a settlement gain of $8 million recorded in discontinued operations.
 
Due to the separation of our semiconductor test solutions business into a separate legal company, Verigy, as of June 1, 2006, and due to significant workforce reductions, we recorded curtailments and settlements as required by SFAS No. 88 and SFAS No. 106 in the third quarter. The impact to the U.S. Plans was a curtailment gain of $12 million consisting of curtailment gain of $3 million for continuing operations and curtailment gain of $9 million for discontinued operations as well as a
$4 million settlement gain relating to continuing operations. The impact to the U.S. Post Retirement Benefit Plan was a curtailment gain of $12 million for continuing operations. The impact to the Non-U.S. Plans was a curtailment loss of $1 million and a settlement gain of $4 million, that were recorded in discontinued operations.
 
In the U.S., because of additional workforce reductions along with cessation of retiree medical benefits for Verigy employees as of October 31, 2006, we recorded curtailments and settlements as required by SFAS No. 88 and SFAS No. 106 in the fourth quarter. The impact to the U.S. Plans was curtailment gains of $2 million and a settlement gain of $2 million both of which were for continuing operations. For the U.S. Post Retirement Benefit Plan, we recorded a curtailment gain of $5 million which was for discontinued operations.
 
As of October 31, 2006 and 2005, the funded status of the defined benefit and post-retirement benefit plans was:
Funded status.
 
 
Plan assets consist primarily of publicly-traded stocks and bonds. In the U.S., our Agilent Retirement Plan and post-retirement benefit assets are allocated approximately 80 percent to equities and approximately 20 percent to fixed income investments. Our DPSP assets are allocated approximately 60 percent to equities and approximately 40 percent to fixed income investments. Approximately 10 percent of our U.S. equity portfolio consists of alternative investments, largely private equity partnerships. The general investment objective for all our plan assets is to obtain the optimum rate of investment return on the total investment portfolio consistent with the assumption of a reasonable level of risk. The safety and protection of principal is a primary concern, and we believe that a well-diversified investment portfolio will result in the highest attainable investment return (income plus capital appreciation) with the lowest overall risk. Specific investment objectives for the plans' portfolios are to: maintain and enhance the purchasing power of the plans' assets; achieve investment returns consistent with the level of risk being taken; and earn performance rates of return in accordance with the benchmarks adopted for each asset class. Outside the U.S., our assets are allocated from 50 to 70 percent to equities, from 25 to 50 percent to fixed income investments, and from 0 to 5 percent to real estate investments, depending on the plan. All plans' assets are broadly diversified. The actual allocations of plan assets are consistent with the target allocations.
Investment policies and strategies as of October 31, 2005 and 2006.
 
The table below presents the projected benefit obligation ("PBO"), accumulated benefit obligation ("ABO") and fair value of plan assets in the aggregate for all plans, separately showing those that were considered under-funded as of October 31, 2006 or 2005.
 
 
 
An additional minimum pension liability adjustment was required in 2005 for three pension plans in Europe as the accumulated benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of pension plan assets for those plans as of the measurement date. The impact of the additional minimum liability on accumulated comprehensive loss was $170 million, which was partially offset by $20 million applied to deferred tax assets, net of tax valuation allowance. The large impact on accumulated comprehensive income was primarily a result of prepaid costs that were reduced to zero in accordance with SFAS No. 87, "Employers' Accounting for Pensions", for the impacted countries.
Additional Minimum Liability.
 
On June 1, 2006, in accordance with the separation agreement between Agilent and Verigy, the liability for certain Verigy employee pension benefits was transferred to separate Verigy pension plans. Agilent funded the pension liability to the extent of the accumulated benefit obligation out of operating cash. The funded status of the Non-U.S. plans required us to reverse $58 million of the additional minimum liability along with the related deferred tax impacts, of approximately $20 million.
 
An additional minimum pension liability adjustment was required in 2006 for two pension plans in Europe as the accumulated benefit obligation exceeded the fair value of pension plan assets for those plans as of the measurement date. The impact of the additional minimum liability on accumulated comprehensive gain (loss) was $112 million which was partially offset by $34 million applied to deferred tax assets. The large impact on accumulated comprehensive income was primarily a result of prepaid costs that were reduced to zero in accordance with SFAS No. 87, "Employers' Accounting for Pensions", for the impacted countries.
During fiscal year 2007, we expect to contribute zero to the U.S. defined benefit plans, $39 million to plans outside the U.S., and zero to the Post-retirement Medical Plans. The following table presents expected future benefit payments for the next 10 years:
Contributions and estimated future benefit payments.
 
 
The assumptions used to determine the benefit obligations and expense for our defined benefit and post-retirement benefit plans are presented in the table below. The expected long-term return on assets below represents an estimate of long-term returns on investment portfolios consisting of a mixture of equities, fixed income and alternative investments in proportion to the asset allocations of each of our plans. We consider long-term rates of return, which are weighted based, on the asset classes (both historical and forecasted) in which we expect our pension and post-retirement funds to be invested. Discount rates reflect the current rate at which pension and post-retirement obligations could be settled based on the measurement dates of the plans  October 31 for the U.S. plans and September 30 for the non-U.S. plans. The U.S. discount rates were determined by matching the expected plan benefit payments against the cash flows from a hypothetically constructed portfolio of high quality corporate bonds. The average yield of this hypothetical bond portfolio was used as a proxy for setting the discount rate. The non-U.S. rates were generally based on published rates for high-quality corporate bonds. The range of assumptions that were used for the non-U.S. defined benefit plans reflects the different economic environments within various countries.
Assumptions.
Assumptions used to calculate the net periodic cost in each year were as follows:
 
Assumptions used to calculate the benefit obligation and the resulting additional minimum pension liability were as follows:
 
 
Assumed health care trend rates could have a significant effect on the amounts reported for Post-retirement Medical Plans. A one percentage point change in the assumed health care cost trend rates for the year ended October 31, 2006 would have the following effects:
 
 
17.
Guarantees
                              
 
Standard Warranty
 
A summary of the standard warranty accrual activity in 2006 and 2005 is shown in the table below.
 
 
Extended Warranty
 
Revenue from our extended warranty contracts with terms beyond one year is deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract period. Related costs are expensed as incurred. Amounts representing warranty contracts for the next twelve months are included in deferred revenue on the consolidated balance sheet and were $43 million and $26 million at October 31, 2006 and October 31, 2005, respectively. The long-term amounts are recorded in other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet and were $55 million and $50 million at October 31, 2006 and October 31, 2005, respectively. Also see Note 20, "Other Accrued Liabilities and Other Long-Term Liabilities."
 
 
Lease Guarantees
 
During the quarter ended April 30, 2005 we entered into an amended Vendor Finance agreement with CIT Group Inc. (formerly Tyco Capital Corporation) that released Agilent from substantially all credit guarantees. As part of this agreement Agilent was also released of liability relating to the guarantees that could require us to repurchase individual leases if the documentation we provided to support the lease was not materially accurate. The impact of the agreement was not material.
Indemnifications to Avago
 
In connection with the sale of our semiconductor products business in December 2005, we agreed to indemnify Avago, its affiliates and other related parties against certain damages that it might incur in the future. These indemnifications primarily cover damages relating to liabilities of the businesses that Agilent retained and did not transfer to Avago, as well as pre-closing taxes and other specified items. Agilent's indemnification for representations and warranties made to Avago are generally limited to 10 percent of the purchase price and survive until March 31, 2007. In our opinion, the fair value of these indemnifications was not material as of October 31, 2006.
 
Indemnifications to Verigy
 
In connection with the spin-off of Verigy, we agreed to indemnify Verigy and its affiliates against certain damages which it might incur in the future. These indemnifications primarily cover damages relating to liabilities of the businesses that Agilent did not transfer to Verigy, liabilities that might arise under limited portions of Verigy's IPO materials that relate to Agilent, and costs and expenses incurred by Agilent or Verigy to effect the IPO, arising out of the distribution of Agilent's remaining holding in Verigy ordinary shares to Agilent's stockholders, or incurred to effect the separation of the semiconductor test solutions business from Agilent to the extent incurred prior to the separation on June 1, 2006. In our opinion, the fair value of these indemnifications was not material as of October 31, 2006.
 
Indemnifications to Hewlett-Packard
 
We have given multiple indemnities to Hewlett-Packard in connection with our activities prior to our spin-off from HP for the businesses that constituted Agilent prior to the spin-off. These indemnifications cover a variety of aspects of our business, including, but not limited to, employee, tax, intellectual property and environmental matters. The agreements containing these indemnifications have been previously disclosed as exhibits to our registration statement on Form S-1 filed on August 16, 1999. In our opinion, the fair value of these indemnifications was not material as of October 31, 2006.
 
Indemnifications to Officers and Directors
 
Our corporate by-laws require that we indemnify our officers and directors, as well as those who act as directors and officers of other entities at our request, against expenses, judgments, fines, settlements and other amounts actually and reasonably incurred in connection with any proceedings arising out of their services to Agilent. In addition, we have entered into separate indemnification agreements with each director and each board-appointed officer of Agilent which provide for indemnification of these directors and officers under similar circumstances and under additional circumstances. The indemnification obligations are more fully described in the by-laws and the indemnification agreements. We purchase standard insurance to cover claims or a portion of the claims made against our directors and officers. Since a maximum obligation is not explicitly stated in our by-laws or in our indemnification agreements and will depend on the facts and circumstances that arise out of any future claims, the overall maximum amount of the obligations cannot be reasonably estimated. Historically, we have not made payments related to these obligations, and the fair value for these obligations was zero on the consolidated balance sheet as of October 31, 2006.
 
Other Indemnifications
 
As is customary in our industry and as provided for in local law in the U.S. and other jurisdictions, many of our standard contracts provide remedies to our customers and others with whom we enter into contracts, such as defense, settlement, or payment of judgment for intellectual property claims related to the use of our products. From time to time, we indemnify customers, as well as our suppliers, contractors, lessors, lessees, companies that purchase our businesses or assets and others with whom we enter into contracts, against combinations of loss, expense, or liability arising from various triggering events related to the sale and the use of our products and services, the use of their goods and services, the use of facilities and state of our owned facilities, the state of the assets and businesses that we sell and other matters covered by such contracts, usually up to a specified maximum amount. In addition, from time to time we also provide protection to these parties against claims related to undiscovered liabilities, additional product liability or environmental obligations. In our experience, claims made under such indemnifications are rare and the associated estimated fair value of the liability was not material as of October 31, 2006.
 
18.
Commitments and Contingencies
                              
 
  We lease certain real and personal property from unrelated third parties under non-cancelable operating leases. Future minimum lease payments under operating leases related to continuing operations at
Operating Lease Commitments:
October 31, 2006 were $79 million for 2007, $62 million for 2008, $44 million for 2009, $25 million for 2010, $16 million for 2011 and $37 million thereafter. Future minimum sublease income under leases at October 31, 2006 was $12 million for 2007, $10 million for 2008, $6 million for 2009, $2 million for 2010 and zero for 2011. Certain leases require us to pay property taxes, insurance and routine maintenance, and include escalation clauses. Total rent expense, including amounts recorded in discontinued operations, was $112 million in 2006, $90 million in 2005 and $116 million in 2004. Rent expense recorded in discontinued operations was $2 million in 2006, $23 million in 2005 and $25 million in 2004.
 
We are involved in lawsuits, claims, investigations and proceedings, including patent, commercial and environmental matters. There are no matters pending that we expect to be material in relation to our business, consolidated financial condition, results of operations or cash flows.
 
19.
Restructuring and Asset Impairment
                              
 
We initiated several restructuring plans in prior periods: the 2001 Plan, the 2002 Plan and the 2003 Plan ("Prior Plans"). The workforce reduction portion of the Prior Plans was completed during fiscal year 2005. The consolidation of excess facilities portion of Prior Plans is expected to be completed within approximately the next five years. In addition, there may be future changes in estimates for the consolidation of excess facilities related to changes in market conditions from those originally expected at the time the charges were recorded.
 
In the fourth quarter of 2005, as a consequence of the decision to divest the semiconductor products and semiconductor test solutions businesses, we launched a new restructuring program (the "2005 Plan") to align our workforce with our smaller organizational size. The 2005 Plan consists purely of workforce reduction initiatives, and is primarily focused on reducing the costs associated with the shared services functions.
 
A summary of total restructuring activity, including that classified as discontinued operations, is shown in the table below:
 
 
The restructuring accrual for all plans, which totaled $71 million at October 31, 2006 and $93 million at October 31, 2005, is recorded in other accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities on the consolidated balance sheet and represents estimated future cash outlays. Workforce reduction expenses, primarily severance, are expected to be largely completed by the end of fiscal 2007. In 2006, we consolidated several facilities due to changes in our organizational structure and recorded impairment charges of $42 million. These charges were primarily associated with facilities located in Germany and the US.
A summary of the statement of operations impact of the charges resulting from all restructuring plans is shown below:
 
 
20.
Other Accrued Liabilities and Other Long-Term Liabilities
                              
 
Other accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities at October 31, 2006 and 2005 were as follows:
 
 
Amounts owed to our employees for accrued vacation totaled $133 million and $145 million at October 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, and is recorded in employee compensation and benefits in the consolidated balance sheet.
 
21.
Long-Term Debt and Credit Facilities
                              
 
In January 2006, Agilent Technologies World Trade, Inc., a consolidated wholly owned subsidiary of Agilent ("World Trade"), entered into a Master Repurchase Agreement and related Confirmation (together, the "Repurchase Agreement") with a third party pursuant to which World Trade sold 15,000 Class A preferred shares of one of its wholly owned subsidiaries having an aggregate liquidation preference of $1.5 billion. Pursuant to the Repurchase Agreement, World Trade is obligated to repurchase from the third party those preferred shares for 100 percent of their aggregate liquidation preference in January 2011. The $1.5 billion obligation of our subsidiary to repurchase the preferred shares has been classified as long-term debt on our consolidated balance sheet. The related debt issuance costs of $25 million were deferred and recognized in other assets on our consolidated balance sheet. These costs will be amortized over the life of the Repurchase Agreement.
 
Under the Repurchase Agreement, World Trade is obligated to make quarterly payments to the third party at a rate per annum, reset quarterly, equal to three-month LIBOR plus 28 basis points. Agilent has unconditionally and irrevocably guaranteed to the third party the timely payment of all obligations of World Trade. The Repurchase Agreement contains customary events of default but no financial covenants. Under the Repurchase Agreement, our subsidiary has the right to accelerate the repurchase of all or any portion of the preferred shares prior to January 2011.
 
In connection with the Repurchase Agreement, World Trade's wholly owned subsidiary is required to hold short-term investments. As of October 31, 2006, these investments were approximately $1,582 million and were classified within restricted cash and cash equivalents on our consolidated balance sheet. See Note 11, "Restricted Cash and Cash Equivalents."
 
In December 2005, we drew down $700 million on a $1 billion senior secured term borrowing facility to help finance our share repurchase program. The term facility allowed us a one-time borrowing at an interest rate equal to one-month LIBOR plus 30 basis points per annum. In January 2006, we applied $700 million of the proceeds from the Repurchase Agreement to repay the full amount borrowed under the secured term borrowing facility. Total interest expense on the senior secured term borrowing facility was $3.6 million. The senior secured term borrowing facility expired in the first quarter of 2006.
22.
Stock Repurchase Program
                              
 
During the fourth quarter of 2005, our Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program of up to $4.466 billion of our common stock. Under the program, we repurchased 8.9 million shares for $290 million in the fourth quarter of 2005.
 
In the first quarter of 2006, under a modified "Dutch Auction" tender offer, we agreed to accept for payment 83 million shares at a purchase price of $36 per share for an aggregate amount of approximately $3 billion. In June 2006, we completed our stock repurchase program which was announced in fourth quarter of 2005. Under the program, we repurchased a total of approximately 125 million shares of our common stock for $4.466 billion. In addition, we capitalized $3 million of service and legal fees.
 
During the fourth quarter of 2006, our Board of Directors authorized another stock repurchase program of up to $2 billion of our common stock. Under the new program, we repurchased approximately 1.7 million shares for $56 million in the fourth quarter of 2006.
 
As of October 31, 2006, we have repurchased approximately 127 million shares of our common stock for approximately $4.5 billion. All such shares and related costs are held as treasury stock and accounted for using the cost method.
 
23.
Segment Information
                              
 
We are a measurement company, providing core bio-analytical and electronic measurement solutions to the communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis industries. During 2006, we completed the divestiture of our semiconductor products business and spin-off of our semiconductor test solutions business. See Note 3, "Discontinued Operations of Our Semiconductor Products Business" and Note 4, "Discontinued Operations of Our Semiconductor Test Solutions Business" for further information. Following this reorganization, Agilent has two businesses  bio-analytical measurement and electronic measurement  each of which comprises a reportable segment. In the beginning of the third quarter of 2007, we moved the nanotechnology measurement business from the electronics measurement segment to the bio-analytical measurement segment to more closely align with the new materials sciences business in that segment. All historical segment numbers have been recast to conform to this change in reportable segments.
Description of segments.
 
The segments were determined based primarily on how the chief operating decision maker views and evaluates our operations. Other factors, including customer base, homogeneity of products, technology and delivery channels, were also considered in determining our reportable segments.
 
A description of our two remaining reportable segments is as follows:
 
 - 
                 
Bio-analytical measurement business provides application-focused solutions that include instruments, software, consumables and services that enable customers to identify, quantify and analyze the physical and biological properties of substances and products. Our seven key product categories include microarrays, microfluidics, gas chromatography, liquid chromatography, mass spectrometry, software and informatics, and related consumables, reagents and services;
 
 - 
                 
Electronic measurement business provides standard and customized electronic measurement instruments and systems, monitoring, management and optimization tools for communications networks and services, software design tools and related services that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronics equipment and communications networks and services. Related services include start-up assistance, instrument productivity and application services and instrument calibration and repair. We also offer customization, consulting and optimization services throughout the customer's product lifecycle.
 
The accounting policies used to derive reportable segment results are generally the same as those described in Note 1, "Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies".
Segment revenue and profit.
 
A significant portion of the segments' expenses arise from shared services and infrastructure that we have historically managed centrally in order to realize economies of scale and to efficiently use resources. These expenses, collectively called corporate charges, include costs of centralized research and development, legal, accounting, employee benefits, real estate, insurance services, information technology services, treasury and other corporate infrastructure expenses. Charges are allocated to the segments, and the allocations are determined on a basis that we considered to be a reasonable reflection of the utilization of services provided to or benefits received by the segments. After its separation on June 1, 2006, Agilent started billing our
semiconductor test solutions business for their use of shared services under the transition services agreement. Corporate charges previously allocated to our semiconductor products business and semiconductor test systems business, but not classified within discontinued operations, were not reallocated to our other segments. These charges are presented below as a component of the reconciliation between the segments' income from operations and Agilent's income from continuing operations and are classified as unallocated semiconductor products business corporate charges and unallocated semiconductor test systems business corporate charges.
 
The following tables reflect the results of our reportable segments under our management reporting system. These results are not in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the U.S. For example, share-based compensation, restructuring, and other items are excluded from the segment measure of income (loss) from operations. The performance of each segment is measured based on several metrics, including adjusted income (loss) from operations. These results are used, in part, by the chief operating decision maker in evaluating the performance of, and in allocating resources to, each of the segments.
 
The profitability of each of the segments is measured after excluding share-based compensation, restructuring and asset impairment charges, investment gains and losses, interest income, interest expense, amortization of goodwill, amortization and impairment of other intangibles and other items as noted in the reconciliation below.
 
 
In 2005 and 2004, revenue classified as discontinued operations included an adjustment of $1 million and $2 million respectively that was previously allocated to our semiconductor test solution business. As a result, total reportable segment revenue was higher than Agilent net revenue by $1 million and $2 million for fiscal years 2005 and 2004 respectively.
 
The following table reconciles segment results to Agilent's total enterprise results from continuing operations before taxes:
 
 
No customer represented 10 percent or more of our total net revenue in 2006, 2005 or 2004.
Major customers.
 
Unallocated assets primarily consist of cash, cash equivalents, short-term investments, accumulated amortization of goodwill and other intangibles, the valuation allowance relating to deferred tax assets and other assets. In 2006, we refined the
methodology for allocating corporate assets, the largest component of which relates to deferred tax assets before the valuation adjustment. Also, in 2006, we disposed a portion of our equity investments and the remaining balance of $16 million was reclassified to available for sale securities. The following table reflects the updated measure of segment assets, capital expenditures and investments in equity-method investees directly managed by each segment. All historical amounts have been reclassified to conform to the current period presentation.
 
 
The following table reconciles segment assets to Agilent's total assets:
 
 
Geographic Information
 
The following table presents summarized information for net revenue and long-lived assets by geographic region for continuing operations. Long lived assets consist of property, plant, and equipment, long-term receivables and other long-term assets excluding intangible assets. The rest of the world primarily consists of Southeast Asia and Europe.
 
 
 
NOTES:
 
Includes pre-tax restructuring charges of $39 million relating to severance expenses. Income from continuing operations also includes a gain of $901 million relating to the sale of an equity investment. See Note 7 "Equity in net income of unconsolidated affiliate and gain on saleLumileds"
(1)
                                 
 
Includes pre-tax restructuring and asset impairment charges of $66 million primarily relating to severance expenses
(2)
                                 
 
Includes pre-tax restructuring and asset impairment charges of $40 million primarily relating to severance expenses
(3)
                                 
 
Includes pre-tax restructuring and asset impairment charges of $41 million primarily relating to severance expenses
(4)
                                 
 
Includes pre-tax restructuring and asset impairment charges of $9 million primarily relating to severance expenses
(5)
                                 
 
Includes pre-tax restructuring and asset impairment charges of $5 million primarily relating to severance expenses
(6)
                                 
 
Includes pre-tax restructuring and asset impairment charges of $35 million primarily relating to severance expenses
(7)
                                 
 
Includes pre-tax restructuring and asset impairment charges of $64 million primarily relating to severance expenses.
(8)
                                 
 
All historical amounts have been restated for discontinued operations
(9)
                                 
Item 15.
Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules
 
Financial Statement Schedule.
 
The following additional financial statement schedule should be considered in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements. All other schedules have been omitted because the required information is either not applicable or not sufficiently material to require submission of the schedule:
SCHEDULE II
 
 
Additions include current year valuation allowance build due to current year increase in net deferred tax assets, return to provision true-ups, other adjustments, and OCI impact to deferred taxes.
*
                                        
 
Deductions include current year reduction in deferred tax assets due to current year decrease in net deferred tax assets, for return to provision true-ups, other adjustments, and OCI impact to deferred taxes.
**
                                 

Exhibit 99.2
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
ITEM 1.
                   
 
 
 
AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC. CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (in millions) (Unaudited)
 
 
1. OVERVIEW
 
Agilent Technologies, Inc. ("we", "Agilent" or the "company"), incorporated in Delaware in May 1999, is a measurement company, providing core bio-analytical and electronic measurement solutions to the communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis industries. In the first quarter of 2006, we completed the divestiture of our semiconductor products business. In the third quarter of 2006, we completed the initial public offering of our semiconductor test solutions business, Verigy Ltd., ("Verigy"). Verigy was a majority-owned subsidiary of Agilent until the distribution of our remaining Verigy shares to Agilent stockholders on October 31, 2006. The results of our semiconductor products business and our semiconductor test solutions business are presented as discontinued operations for fiscal year 2006 in the consolidated financial statements.
 
Our fiscal year end is October 31, and our fiscal quarters end on January 31, April 30 and July 31. Unless otherwise stated, all dates refer to our fiscal year and fiscal periods.
 
2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
.
Reclassifications
Amounts related to other income (expense), net in the consolidated statement of operations for the period ended January 31, 2006 were reclassified to conform to the presentation used in 2007.
 
Basis of Presentation.
We have prepared the accompanying financial data for the three months ended January 31, 2007 and 2006 pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") in the U.S. have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our 2006 Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
In the opinion of management, the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements contain all normal and recurring adjustments necessary to present fairly our condensed consolidated balance sheet as of January 31, 2007 and October 31, 2006, condensed consolidated statement of operations for the three months ended January 31, 2007 and 2006, and condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for the three months ended January 31, 2007 and 2006.
 
The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP in the U.S. requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our critical accounting policies are those that affect our financial statements materially and involve difficult, subjective or complex judgments by management. Those policies are revenue recognition, restructuring and asset impairment charges, inventory valuation, investment impairments, share-based compensation, retirement and post retirement benefit plan assumptions, valuation of long-lived assets and accounting for income taxes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on management's best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the company in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates.
 
3. NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
 
In June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Income Tax Uncertainties" ("FIN No. 48"). FIN No. 48 defines the threshold for recognizing the benefits of tax return positions in the financial statements as "more-likely-than-not" to be sustained by the taxing authority and provides guidance on the derecognition, measurement and classification of income tax uncertainties, along with any related interest and penalties. FIN No. 48 also includes guidance concerning accounting for income tax uncertainties in interim periods and increases the level of disclosures associated with any recorded income tax uncertainties. FIN No. 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. The differences between the amounts recognized in the statements of financial position prior to the adoption of FIN No. 48 and the amounts reported after adoption will be accounted for as a cumulative-effect adjustment recorded to the beginning balance of retained earnings. We are currently evaluating the impact of FIN No. 48 on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
 
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)" ("SFAS No. 158"), which
 
 
requires companies to recognize a net liability or asset to report the funded status of their defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans on their balance sheets. Except for the measurement date requirement, SFAS No. 158 is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2006. The measurement date requirement will not be effective until fiscal years ending after December 15, 2008. SFAS No. 158 will be applied prospectively. We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting SFAS No. 158 on our consolidated financial position.
 
In September 2006, the Staff of the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108, "Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements" ("SAB No. 108"). SAB No. 108 provides guidance on the consideration of the effects of prior year misstatements in quantifying current year misstatements for the purpose of determining whether the current year's financial statements are materially misstated. We adopted SAB No. 108 in our first quarter and the adoption had no material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
 
In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilitiesincluding an amendment of FAS 115 ("SFAS No.159").  SFAS No. 159 allows companies to choose, at specified election dates, to measure eligible financial assets and liabilities at fair value that are not otherwise required to be measured at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses shall be reported on items for which the fair value option has been elected in earnings at each subsequent reporting date. SFAS No. 159 also establishes presentation and disclosure requirements. SFAS No. 159 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and will be applied prospectively. We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting SFAS No. 159 on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows.
 
4. SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION
 
We follow the accounting provisions of SFAS, No.123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment" ("SFAS No. 123 (R)"), for share-based awards granted to employees and directors including employee stock option awards, restricted stock, employee stock purchases made under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP") and performance share awards under Agilent Technologies, Inc. Long-Term Performance Program ("LTPP") using the estimated grant date fair value method of accounting in accordance with SFAS No. 123 (R).
 
The impact on our results for share-based compensation was as follows:
 
 
Share-based compensation capitalized within inventory at January 31, 2007 and 2006 was zero and $4.5 million, respectively. The windfall tax benefit realized from exercised stock options and similar awards was immaterial for the three months ended January 31, 2007 and 2006.
The following assumptions were used during the three months ended January 31, 2007 and 2006 to estimate the fair value of options granted, ESPP purchases and the LTPP:
 
 
For the three months ended January 31, 2007 and 2006, the fair value of share-based awards for employee stock option awards, restricted stock and employee stock purchases made under our ESPP was estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. For the three months ended January 31, 2007 and 2006 shares granted under the LTPP were valued using a Monte Carlo simulation. Both the Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo simulation fair value models require the use of highly subjective and complex assumptions, including the option's expected life and the price volatility of the underlying stock.
 
The expected stock price volatility assumption was determined using the implied volatility for our stock for the three months ended January 31, 2007 and 2006. We estimate the stock price volatility using the implied volatility of Agilent's publicly traded, similarly priced, stock options. We have determined that implied volatility is more reflective of market conditions and a better indicator of expected volatility than using historical volatility or a combined method of determining volatility.
 
In the first quarter of 2007, we revised our estimate of the expected life of our employee stock options. In revising this estimate, we considered several factors, including the expected lives used by a peer group of companies and the historical option exercise behavior of our employees. In the first quarter of 2007, we granted the majority of our employee stock options to executive employees. The review of our most current data indicates that our executive employees have an average expected term of 4.6 years.
 
5. PROVISION FOR TAXES
 
The $27 million of income tax benefit for the three months ended January 31, 2007, includes a benefit of $50 million related to the reversal of a tax reserve for potential non-U.S. exposures where the statute of limitations has now expired. The remainder is a provision for taxes on income generated in jurisdictions other than those in which the Company has full valuation allowances. We intend to maintain full valuation allowances in these jurisdictions until sufficient positive evidence exists to support the reversal of the valuation allowances.
6. NET INCOME PER SHARE
 
The following is a reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted net income per share computations for the periods presented below.
 
 
The dilutive effect of share-based awards is reflected in diluted net income per share by application of the treasury stock method, which includes consideration of unamortized share-based compensation required by SFAS No. 123 (R).
 
The following table presents options to purchase shares of common stock, which were not included in the computation of diluted net income per share because they were anti-dilutive.
 
 
RESTRICTED CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
7.
 
As of January 31, 2007, $1,604 million was reported as restricted cash and cash equivalents on our condensed consolidated balance sheet.  Of this amount, $1,582 million was short-term restricted commercial paper maintained in connection with our obligations to a third party. In January 2006, Agilent Technologies World Trade, Inc., a consolidated wholly owned subsidiary of Agilent ("World Trade"), entered into a Master Repurchase Agreement and related Confirmation (together, the "Repurchase Agreement") with a third party pursuant to which World Trade sold 15,000 Class A preferred shares of one of its wholly owned subsidiaries having an aggregate liquidation preference of $1.5 billion. Pursuant to the Repurchase Agreement, World Trade is obligated to repurchase from the third party those preferred shares for 100 percent of their aggregate liquidation preference in January 2011. The $1.5 billion obligation of our subsidiary to repurchase the preferred shares has been classified as long-term debt on our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
 
8. INVENTORY
 
9. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
The following table presents goodwill balances and the movements for each of our reportable segments during the three months ended January 31, 2007:
 
 
The components of other intangibles as of January 31, 2007 and October 31, 2006 are shown in the table below:
 
 
We recorded approximately $40 million of goodwill and $26 million of other intangibles during the three months ended January 31, 2007, primarily related to four acquisitions. Pro forma disclosures are not presented for these acquisitions, as they are not material.
 
Amortization of intangible assets was $8 million for the three months ended January 31, 2007 and $4 million for the same period in the prior year. Accumulated amortization includes approximately $1 million unfavorable impact related to currency. Future amortization expense related to existing purchased intangible assets is estimated to be $25 million for the remainder of 2007, $24 million for 2008, $17 million for 2009 and $34 million thereafter.
10. RETIREMENT PLANS AND POST RETIREMENT PENSION PLANS
 
Components of net periodic costs.
For the three months ended January 31, 2007 and 2006, our net pension and post retirement benefit costs were comprised of:
 
 
In the U.S., because of lump sum payouts during the three months ended January 31, 2007, we recorded a settlement in accordance with by SFAS No. 88, "Employers' Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits," ("SFAS No. 88"). The impact to the U.S. Plans was a gain of $1 million.
 
We contributed approximately $8 million to our U.S. defined benefit plans and $9 million to our non-U.S. defined benefit plans during the three months ended January 31, 2007 and $41 million and $8 million, respectively, for the same period in 2006. We expect to contribute approximately $30 million to our non-U.S. defined benefit plans during the remainder of fiscal 2007.
 
11. WARRANTIES
 
Standard Warranty
 
A summary of the standard warranty accrual activity is shown in the table below.
 
 
Extended Warranty
 
Revenue from our extended warranty contracts with terms beyond one year is deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract period. Related costs are expensed as incurred. Amounts representing warranty contracts for the next twelve months are included in deferred revenue on the condensed consolidated balance sheet and were $46 million and $43 million at January 31, 2007 and October 31, 2006, respectively. The long-term amounts are recorded in other long-term
liabilities on the condensed consolidated balance sheet and were $54 million and $55 million at January 31, 2007 and October 31, 2006, respectively.
 
 
12. RESTRUCTURING AND ASSET IMPAIRMENT
 
the 2001 Plan, the 2002 Plan and the 2003 Plan ("Prior Plans"). As of January 31, 2007, we have executed all key activities on the Prior Plans. However, charges in connection with the consolidation of excess facilities continue to be recorded due to changes in market conditions from those originally expected. Payments will continue to be made related to these properties over the next five years.
We initiated several restructuring plans in prior periods:
 
Our FY2005 Plan was announced in the fourth quarter of 2005. As a consequence of selling our semiconductor products business and spinning off our semiconductor test solutions business, the FY2005 Plan is designed to align our workforce with our smaller revenue base. The FY2005 Plan consists of voluntary and involuntary terminations. During the first quarter of 2007, we incurred $9 million of charges related to the FY2005 Plan, mostly associated with individuals notified prior to October 31, 2006.
 
A summary of restructuring activity for the three months ended January 31, 2007 is shown in the table below:
 
 
The restructuring accrual for all plans, which totaled $58 million as of January 31, 2007 and $71 million as of October 31, 2006, is recorded in other accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities on the condensed consolidated balance sheet and represents estimated future cash outlays. Completion of the workforce reduction component of the FY2005 Plan is expected by the end of fiscal year 2007 however lease payments for excess facilities are expected to extend over the next five years.
 
A summary of the statement of operations impact of the charges resulting from all restructuring plans is shown below:
 
13. COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
 
The following table presents the components of comprehensive income:
 
 
14. STOCK REPURCHASE PROGRAM
 
During the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, our Board of Directors authorized a $2 billion stock repurchase program for shares of our common stock over the succeeding two year period. Under this program, in the fourth quarter of fiscal year 2006, we repurchased approximately 1.7 million shares for $56 million. In addition, in the first quarter of 2007, we repurchased approximately 7.6 million shares of our common stock for approximately $254 million. All repurchased shares and related costs are held as treasury stock and accounted for using the cost method.
 
15. SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
the beginning of the third quarter of 2007, we moved the nanotechnology measurement business from the electronics measurement segment to the bio-analytical measurement segment to more closely align with the new materials sciences business in that segment. All historical segment numbers have been recast to conform to this change in reportable segments.
We are a measurement company, providing core bio-analytical and electronic measurement solutions to the communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis industries. During 2006, we completed the divestiture of our semiconductor products business and spin off of our semiconductor test solutions business. After this reorganization, Agilent has two businesses  bio-analytical measurement and electronic measurement  each of which comprises a reportable segment. In
 
The segments were determined based primarily on how the chief operating decision maker views and evaluates our operations. Other factors, including customer base, homogeneity of products, technology and delivery channels, were also considered in determining our reportable segments.
 
A significant portion of the segments' expenses arise from shared services and infrastructure that we have historically provided to the segments in order to realize economies of scale and to efficiently use resources. These expenses, collectively called corporate charges, include costs of centralized research and development, legal, accounting, employee benefits, real estate, insurance services, information technology services, treasury and other corporate infrastructure expenses. Charges are allocated to the segments, and the allocations have been determined on a basis that we considered to be a reasonable reflection of the utilization of services provided to or benefits received by the segments. For 2006, corporate charges previously allocated to our semiconductor products business and semiconductor test systems business, but not classified within discontinued operations, were not reallocated to our other segments. These charges are presented below as a component of the reconciliation between the segments' income from operations and Agilent's income from continuing operations and are classified as unallocated semiconductor products business corporate charges and unallocated semiconductor test systems business corporate charges.
 
The following tables reflect the results of our reportable segments under our management reporting system. These results are not necessarily in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. The performance of each segment is measured based on several metrics, including income from operations. These results are used, in part, by the chief operating decision maker in evaluating the performance of, and in allocating resources to, each of the segments.
The profitability of each of the segments is measured after excluding amortization and impairment of other intangibles, restructuring and asset impairment charges, share based compensation expense, investment gains and losses, interest income, interest expense and other items as noted in the reconciliation below.
 
 
The following table reconciles reportable segments' income from operations to Agilent's total enterprise income from continuing operations before taxes, equity income and gain on sale of Lumileds:
 
 
In the first quarter of 2007, we donated $20 million to the Agilent Foundation, which is a non-profit public benefit corporation for charitable and educational purposes.
 
The following table reflects segment assets under our management reporting system. Segment assets include allocations of corporate assets, including deferred tax assets, goodwill, other intangibles and other assets.
 
 
ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)
 
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. This report contains forward-looking statements including, without limitation, statements regarding trends, seasonality and growth in the markets we sell into, our strategic direction, remediation activities, new product and service introductions, product pricing, changes to our manufacturing processes, the impact of local government regulations on our ability to pay vendors or conduct operations, our liquidity position, our ability to generate cash from continuing operations, growth in our businesses, our investments, our financial results, revenue generated from international sales, our cost-control activities, the status of our restructuring programs including our lease and severance payment obligations, our transition to lower-cost regions, the existence or length of an economic recovery that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to various factors, including those discussed below in "Factors That May Affect Future Results" and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q.
 
Basis of Presentation
 
The financial information presented in this Form 10-Q is not audited and is not necessarily indicative of our future consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our fiscal year end is October 31, and our fiscal quarters end on January 31, April 30 and July 31. Unless otherwise stated, all dates refer to our fiscal year and fiscal periods.
 
In the first quarter of 2006, we completed the divestiture of our semiconductor products business. In the third quarter of 2006, we completed the initial public offering of our semiconductor test solutions business, Verigy Ltd. ("Verigy"). Verigy was a majority-owned subsidiary of Agilent until the distribution of our remaining Verigy shares to Agilent stockholders on October 31, 2006. The results of our semiconductor products business and our semiconductor test solutions business are presented as discontinued operations for fiscal year 2006 in the consolidated financial statements.
 
Executive Summary
 
Agilent has two businesses focused on the electronic measurement market and the bio-analytical measurement market.
Agilent Technologies, Inc. ("we", "Agilent" or the "company") is a measurement company, providing core bio-analytical and electronic measurement solutions to the communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis industries.
 
For the three months ended January 31, 2007, total Agilent orders were $1.25 billion, up 6 percent in comparison to the same period last year. Net revenue of $1.28 billion for the three months ended January 31, 2007 was up 10 percent from the same period last year. Bio-analytical measurement showed growth in all of its markets and electronic measurement increased revenues overall, but showed some weakness in the wireless manufacturing test market.
 
Income from continuing operations for the three months ended January 31, 2007 and January 31, 2006 was $150 million and $974 million, respectively. A gain of $901 million in the three months ended January 31, 2006 was recorded on the sale of an equity investment, Lumileds. Net income for 2007 includes a one time reversal of a tax reserve of $50 million on potential non-U.S. exposures where the statute of limitations has now expired. Net income for 2006 includes $1,837 million from, and gain on the sale of, the discontinued operations of our semiconductor products business and $5 million for the income from the discontinued operations of our semiconductor test solutions business. In the first quarter of 2007, we generated $93 million of operating cash compared with a consumption of $104 million in the prior year. For the three months ended January 31, 2007 the improvement in operating cash was driven by the overall increase in operating income from continuing operations together with a $29 million reduction in disbursements relating to restructuring activities, a $77 million decrease in the settlement of tax obligations and a $32 million reduction in contributions to defined benefit plans when compared to the prior year.
 
In the three months ended January 31, 2007, we invested $70 million in four acquisitions and several intangible assets, net of cash acquired. These purchases strengthen existing Agilent instrumentation portfolios and complement testing solutions for sulfur detection, optical communications and synthetic instrumentation. We repurchased approximately 7.6 million shares of our common stock in the first quarter for $254 million.
 
Looking forward, our focus will be to grow revenue at a faster rate than the electronic measurement and bio-analytical markets, primarily through increasing market share, expanding our served market size with new products and channels and by complementary acquisitions. Our primary strategy is to pursue profitable growth by expanding our leadership in core markets and seeking revenue growth opportunities.
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") in the U.S. The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP in the U.S. requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our critical accounting policies are those that affect our financial statements materially and involve difficult, subjective or complex judgments by management. Those policies are revenue recognition, restructuring and asset impairment charges, inventory valuation, investment impairments, share-based compensation, retirement and post retirement benefit plan assumptions, valuation of long-lived assets and accounting for income taxes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on management's best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the company in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates.
 
An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used or changes in the accounting estimate that are reasonably likely to occur could materially change the financial statements.
 
Share-based compensation.
The expected stock price volatility assumption was determined using the implied volatility for our stock for the three months ended January 31, 2007 and 2006. We estimate the stock price volatility using the implied volatility of Agilent's publicly traded, similarly priced, stock options. We have determined that implied volatility is more reflective of market conditions and a better indicator of expected volatility than using historical volatility or a combined method of determining volatility. In reaching this conclusion, we have considered many factors including the extent to which our options are traded and our ability to find traded options with similar terms and prices to the options we are valuing. A 10 percent increase in our estimated volatility from 29.5 percent to 39.5 percent would generally increase the value of an award and the associated compensation cost by approximately 20 percent if no other factors were changed.
 
In the first quarter of 2007, we revised our estimate of the expected life of our employee stock options. In revising this estimate, we considered several factors, including the expected lives used by a peer group of companies and the historical option exercise behavior of our employees. In the first quarter of 2007, we granted the majority of our employee stock options to executive employees. The review of our most current data indicates that our executive employees have an average expected term of 4.6 years.
 
Goodwill and purchased intangible assets.
No events occurred or circumstances changed during the three months ended January 31, 2007 that required us to test goodwill or purchased intangibles for impairment.
 
Adoption of New Pronouncements
 
See Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements for a description of new accounting pronouncements.
 
Restructuring and Asset Impairment
 
the 2001 Plan, the 2002 Plan and the 2003 Plan ("Prior Plans"). We have executed all key activities on the Prior Plans. However, charges in connection with the consolidation of excess facilities continue to be recorded due to changes in market conditions from those originally expected. Payments will continue to be made related to these properties over the next five years.
We initiated several restructuring plans in prior periods:
 
Our FY2005 Plan was announced in the fourth quarter of 2005. As a consequence of selling our semiconductor products business and spinning off our semiconductor test solutions business, the FY2005 Plan is designed to align our workforce with our smaller revenue base. The FY2005 Plan consists of voluntary and involuntary terminations. During the first quarter of 2007, we incurred $9 million of charges related to the FY2005 Plan, mostly associated with individuals notified prior to October 31, 2006. Future charges of approximately $5 million are also expected for these individuals, with some limited additional charges expected for individuals to be notified in future periods. We expect to complete all actions associated with the FY2005 Plan by the end of fiscal 2007.
 
See Note 12, "Restructuring and Asset Impairment," of the condensed consolidated financial statements for more details relating to the restructuring and asset impairment activity.
Foreign Currency
 
Our revenues, costs and expenses, and monetary assets and liabilities are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our global operating and financing activities. We hedge net cash flow and balance sheet exposures that are not denominated in the functional currencies of our subsidiaries on a short term and anticipated basis. We do experience some fluctuations within individual lines of the condensed consolidated statement of operations and balance sheet as our hedging program is not designed to offset the currency movements in each category of revenues, expenses, monetary assets and liabilities. However, movements in exchange rates net of our hedging activities had no material effect on our net income in the periods presented.
 
Results from Continuing Operations
 
In the beginning of the third quarter of 2007, we moved the nanotechnology measurement business from the electronics measurement segment to the bio-analytical measurement segment to more closely align with the new materials sciences business in that segment. All historical segment numbers have been recast to conform to this change in reportable segments.
 
Orders and Net Revenue
 
 
 
Agilent orders increased 6 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2007 compared to the same periods in 2006, with both business segments achieving growth.
 
Our bio-analytical measurement business orders grew at 15 percent in the first quarter and were balanced across all major markets. Electronic measurement orders grew by 2 percent compared with the same period last year with some weakness in orders for wireless manufacturing test equipment.
 
Agilent net revenue increased 10 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2007 compared to the same periods last year.
 
The bio-analytical measurement business achieved growth of 22 percent setting a record for revenue, growth and profit for this business segment. The success of our new product introductions especially the 1200 series Rapid Resolution Liquid Chromatography ("RRLC"), High Performance Liquid Chromatography ("HPLC") and expanded Liquid Chromatography/Mass Spectrometry ("LC/MS") portfolio (single quad, triple quad and quadropole time-of-flight) have added to the double digit growth for chemical analysis and life science areas within the business segment. Chemical analysis saw the petrochemical area as the strongest contributor due to higher oil prices, systems replacements in Americas and Europe and the construction of new refineries in China and India. Food testing was also strong driven by updated food safety regulations in China and India. In life sciences the large pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies market saw good demand for fast LC's, mass spectrometers and micro arrays and informatics tools. In addition there is sustained growth of contract research organizations and generic pharmaceutical companies in China and India and increased research spending in Korea and Singapore.
Electronic measurement business revenues increased by 4 percent compared with the prior year. Revenues in general purpose test were driven by solid end-market demand in the computer and semiconductor industries, aerospace/defense and consumer electronics design and manufacturing. Oscilloscopes are one example of a product with good annual growth that serves all of these end markets. Recent launches of new low cost instruments have been well received and provide an opportunity for growth throughout 2007. Communications test is seeing significant weakness in the wireless manufacturing test market as our customers grow into previously purchased capacity and ramp volumes in phones using older technologies (2G/2.5G). Wireless R&D is showing steady growth as mobile device designers focus on integrated handsets for voice/data/audio/video services. New technologies such as WiMax also provide for growth opportunities.
 
Services and other revenue include revenue generated from servicing our installed base of products, warranty extensions and consulting. Services and other revenue for the three months ended January 31, 2007 increased by 8 percent as compared to the same period last year. Service revenue trends tend to lag product revenue due to the deferral of significant service revenue which is recognized over extended time periods.
 
Operating Results
 
 
 
At January 31, 2007, our unfilled orders for the electronic measurement business amounted to approximately $740 million, as compared to approximately $720 million at January 31, 2006.  At January 31, 2007, our unfilled orders for the bio-analytical measurement business were approximately $250 million, as compared to approximately $210 million at January 31, 2006. We expect that a large majority of the unfilled orders for both businesses will be delivered to customers within nine months. On average, our unfilled orders represent approximately two months' worth of revenues. In light of this experience, backlog on any particular date, while indicative of short-term revenue performance, is not necessarily a reliable indicator of medium or long-term revenue performance
 
Gross margin increased 2 percentage points for the three months ended January 31, 2007 compared to the same period last year. Gross margins for products increased by 2 percentage points and gross margins for services and other revenue increased by 4 percentage points for the three months ended January 31, 2007 compared to the same period last year. The improvement in gross margins during the first quarter of fiscal year 2007 was largely as a result of refunctionalization of $15 million of  general infrastructure allocations from cost of goods sold to research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses. The lower allocations to gross margins reflect the on going headcount profile which is now less manufacturing intensive since the divestiture of our semiconductor products business. The relative strength of the Yen and the Euro against the US dollar has increased gross margins by $12 million when compared to the same period last year. This increase, due to currency, has been largely offset by corresponding increases in expenses and overall had an immaterial impact on income from operations. Gross inventory charges were $3 million and $12 million for the three months ended January 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively.
 
Research and development expenses increased 2 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2007, compared to the same period last year. The main drivers for the increase were due to the above-mentioned general infrastructure refunctionalization and currency changes. We remain committed to bringing new products to market, and have focused our development efforts on key strategic opportunities in order to align our business with available markets and position ourselves to capture market share.
 
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 6 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2007, compared to the same period last year, primarily due to increased employee related costs, such as variable pay, sales
 
commissions and shared-based compensation expense, increased marketing costs associated with new product launches, and the effects of general infrastructure refunctionalization and currency changes. In addition, we donated $20 million to the Agilent Foundation, which is a non-profit public benefit corporation for charitable and educational purposes.
 
At January 31, 2007, our headcount, for continuing operations, was approximately 18,800 as compared to approximately 18,850 at January 31, 2006.
 
General Infrastructure and Shared Services
 
For Agilent overall we have decreased our infrastructure costs, compared to last year,  primarily through continuing restructuring activities and streamlining our operations. We have reduced the number of employees in our workforce that provide support services such as finance, IT and workplace services and moved many of our global shared services operations sites to lower cost regions.  We expect that a few key infrastructure areas such as IT and workplace services will continue to see some savings in this fiscal year which will be passed on to each of our businesses according to their usage of the services.
 
Provision for Income Taxes
 
For the three months ended January 31, 2007, we recorded an income tax benefit of $27 million on continuing operations compared to an income tax provision of $10 million on continuing operations for the same period last year. The income tax provision for the three months ended January 31, 2007, includes a benefit of $50 million related to the reversal of a tax reserve for potential non-U.S. exposures where the statute of limitations has now expired. For the three months ended January 31, 2007, we recorded an income tax provision of zero, compared to $15 million last year, on discontinued operations.  The provision was recorded for taxes on income generated in jurisdictions other than those in which the company has full valuation allowances. We intend to maintain full valuation allowances in these jurisdictions until sufficient positive evidence exists to support the reversal of the valuation allowances.
 
For 2007, the current estimate of the annual effective tax rate is 12 percent on continuing operations.  The income tax rate for continuing operations was (22) percent for the three months ended January 31, 2007. The tax rates for both the three months ended January 31, 2007 and the estimated 2007 annual effective tax rates benefited from the resolution of $50 million of international tax issues. The benefit was treated as a discrete event for the quarter ended January 31, 2007. Excluding the impact of the $50 million tax benefit, we anticipate the full-year 2007 effective tax rate on continuing operations to be approximately 18 percent. The overall tax rate reflects taxes in jurisdictions other than the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions in which income tax expense or benefit continues to be offset by adjustments to the valuation allowances.  This tax rate may change over time as the amount or mix of income and taxes changes. Our effective tax rate is calculated using our projected annual pre-tax income or loss from continuing operations and is affected by research tax credits, the expected level of other tax benefits, the effects of business acquisitions and dispositions, the impact of changes to valuation allowances, changes in other comprehensive income, as well as changes in the mix of income and losses in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates which have varying statutory rates.
 
In connection with an Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") audit of our U.S. federal income tax returns for 2000 through 2002, we received Notices of Proposed Adjustment ("NOPA") in October 2006 and January 2007 in which the IRS claims significant increases to our U.S. taxable income which could result in a commensurate increase in our U.S. income taxes payable. The October 2006 NOPA relates to the use of Agilent's brand name by our foreign affiliates. We expect to receive a Revenue Agent's Report with respect to this claim in due course in which we anticipate the IRS will assert a significant aggregate tax deficiency, plus interest and possible penalties. The January 2007 NOPA relates to a deemed dividend between Agilent's affiliates. This claim may be included in the Revenue Agent's Report if we are unsuccessful in addressing it before the audit concludes. We believe that the claimed IRS adjustments are inconsistent with applicable tax laws. Accordingly, we will oppose the claimed adjustments vigorously. In accordance with SFAS No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies", we have not accrued an income tax liability in our January 31, 2007 or October 31, 2006 financial statements as we believe the possibility that the IRS will be successful in its claim for the adjustments is remote.
 
For all U.S. and other tax jurisdictions, we recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest will be due. If our estimate of income tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would be required. If events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary.
Segment Overview
 
Agilent is the world's premier measurement company providing core bio-analytical and electronic measurement solutions to the communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis industries. Agilent has two businesses focused on the electronic measurement market and the bio-analytical measurement market.
 
Electronic Measurement
 
Our electronic measurement business provides standard and customized solutions that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronic equipment and systems and communications networks and services.
 
Orders and Net Revenue
 
 
Overall orders for the three months ended January 31, 2007 increased 2 percent compared with the same period last year, with growth in our nano-positioning and oscilloscope businesses offset by weaker orders for wireless manufacturing test equipment.
 
Revenues for the three months ended January 31, 2007 increased 4 percent compared to the same period last year. General purpose test revenues of $480 million increased 11 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2007, compared to the same period last year, as our general purpose end markets continue to experience solid growth fueled by the ongoing global economic expansion and rising consumer spending on electronics. Increasing demand for their end products, time-to-market pressures and rapid technological rolls all contribute to ongoing demand for test equipment by our broad customer base. Communications test revenues of $316 million decreased 6 percent for the three months ended January 31, 2007 compared to the same period last year driven by weaker demand in wireless manufacturing test. Other communications test markets (such as wireline and wireless R&D) were more stable with moderate growth compared to last year.
 
Looking forward, we expect gradual growth for our electronic measurement business. We expect growth to be driven by our customers' expansion of wireless 3G coverage and services (high data rate, multi-media services supported by multi-functional handsets) as well as by wireline opportunities in broadband access, voice-over-internet-protocol and fiber-to-the-home, all fueled by consumer demand for voice/data/video converged services. The aerospace/defense market's overall longer-term trends of spending growth in areas of signal intelligence, communications, surveillance and information warfare bode well for longer-term growth in test and measurement sales into this market. This growth potential could be mitigated by potential slowdowns in spending on new communications technologies, governmental budgetary shifts and contraction in the semiconductor market.
 
Operating Results
 
 
 
Gross margin increased 2 percentage points for the three months ended January 31, 2007 compared to the same period last year. The increase was mainly driven by higher volumes, $8 million less in inventory charges and a change in the classification of corporate overhead charges from cost of sales to operating expenses of $8 million.
 
Research and development expenses for the three months ended January 31, 2007 increased 9 percent as compared to the same period last year, driven by continued investment in new technologies, market expansion opportunities and impact of currency movement. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 6 percent for the three months ended January
31, 2007 over the same period in the prior year, driven by selective spending increases in support of growth initiatives, acquisitions, unfavorable impact of currency movements and a change in the classification of corporate overhead charges from cost of sales to operating expenses. Income from operations for the three months ended January 31, 2007 increased $5 million when compared to the same period last year.
 
Bio-analytical Measurement
 
Our bio-analytical measurement business provides application-focused solutions that include instruments, software, consumables and services that enable customers to identify, quantify and analyze the physical and biological properties of substances and products. Our seven key product categories include: microarrays, microfluidics, gas chromatography, liquid chromatography, mass spectrometry, software and informatics, and related consumables, reagents and services.
 
Orders and Net Revenue
 
 
Bio-analytical measurement business had a strong quarter, with year over year growth for both orders and revenue. Results were consistent with our normal seasonal patterns and reflected the strong demand across virtually all of our markets.
 
Orders for the three months ending January 31, 2007 grew 15 percent from the same periods last year, with this being the third consecutive double digit growth quarter. In our chemical analysis business, we continued to see strength from food and environmental markets together with demand for instrumentation in petrochemical industries. In life sciences we saw demand from pharmaceutical companies, contract research organizations, and generic drug manufacturers.
 
Revenue for three months ending January 31, 2007 grew 22 percent from the same period last year. Both chemical analysis and life sciences had an exceptional first quarter with year over year growth at 21 percent and 23 percent, respectively, and reporting revenues of $289 million and $195 million, respectively.
 
Chemical analysis continues to see good demand for food and environmental testing solutions. Continued higher average oil prices have also driven demand for our petrochemical testing solutions. Petrochemical was our strongest customer market, up 32 percent year over year due to system replacements in Americas and Europe, construction of new refineries in India and China, and worldwide demand for alternative fuels such as biodiesel. Food testing was also strong, up 20 percent year over year. Growth in this sector was driven by updated food safety regulations in China and India and by overall increases made to regulatory standards worldwide. In the environmental segment, local regulations continue to drive testing of drinking water, solid waste testing, and air monitoring, with growth in this market led by China and India.
 
In life sciences, we saw good demand from pharmaceutical companies, biotechs, contract research organizations, and generic drug manufacturers. This demand in conjunction with our expanded product offerings from our liquid chromatography mass spectrometry portfolio was the main driver for the growth seen in life sciences. From a product perspective, revenue growth for this market segment was driven by continued success of our new 1200 series liquid chromatography platform, particularly the rapid resolution system, high performance liquid chromatograph columns, single quad, triple quad, quadrupole time of flight mass spectrometers, and microarrays.
 
Looking forward, we have a new gas chromatograph platform and an enhanced gas chromatography mass spectrometer launching later in the second quarter. We expect growth to continue from our recently released products such as rapid resolution liquid chromatography and enhanced single quadrupole liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry, triple quadrupole mass spectrometry, and quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry systems.
Operating Results
 
 
 
For the three months ended January 31, 2007, gross margin improved 3 percentage points compared to the same period last year. The improvement in gross margin was driven by increased revenue, manufacturing efficiencies, decrease in general infrastructure cost and savings from selected cost reduction programs.
 
Research and development expenses were flat for the three months ended January 31, 2007, compared to the same period last year. Spending was relatively flat to prior year investment levels.
 
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 21 percent compared to last year. This increase was due to higher employee-related costs, higher sales commissions, investments in marketing programs, and higher general infrastructure costs.
 
For the three months ending January 31, 2007, operating margin increased 5 percentage points compared to the same period a year ago. This increase was due to higher revenues and operational efficiencies offsetting increased selling, general, and administrative investments to accommodate growth.
 
FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources
 
Our financial position remained strong at January 31, 2007, with cash and cash equivalents of $2,090 million as compared to $2,262 million at October 31, 2006.
 
Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Operating Activities
 
Net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations was $93 million in the first quarter of 2007 compared to $104 million used in the same period in 2006. During the first quarter, generation of cash flows from operations is normally low due to a number of activities that occur infrequently throughout the year. For example, we pay out semi-annual incentive compensation, as well as record our employees' purchase of stock as part of the employee share purchase program in the first quarter of each fiscal year. Looking forward to the remainder of the year, we expect to generate sufficient cash from operations to fund our operations and investment in property, plant and equipment.
 
In the three months ended January 31, 2007, accounts receivable generated $26 million cash as compared to cash generation of $38 million in the same period in 2006. Our revenues increased by approximately 10 percent year-over-year resulting in higher accounts receivables, however, days sales outstanding decreased to 47 days as of January 31, 2007 from 50 days a year ago reflecting the continued improvement in receivables management. Accounts payable used cash of $65 million during the first quarter of 2007 versus cash generation of $41 million in the same period in 2006. Cash used for inventory was $20 million for the three months ended January 31, 2007 compared to cash used of $22 million in the same period of 2006.
 
We made disbursements for restructuring activities of $22 million in the first quarter of 2007, primarily in the form of severance payments, compared to $51 million during the same period of 2006.  We have also paid approximately $93 million during the first quarter of 2007 under our variable pay programs for the six months ended October 31, 2006, as compared to $79 million paid out during the first quarter of 2006.
 
We paid approximately $19 million in tax payments in first quarter of 2007 as compared to $96 million in the same period in 2006. One of the primary reasons for the higher tax payments in 2006 was the U.S. tax liability created in 2005 for repatriation of earnings from our foreign subsidiaries of $970 million under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 and the 2005 federal alternate minimum tax.
We contributed $8 million to our U.S. defined benefit plans in the first quarter of 2007 compared to $41 million in first quarter of 2006. The reduced funding amounts in the U.S. were possible due to the improvement in our funded status. Our international defined benefits plans are generally funded ratably throughout the year. We contributed approximately $9 million to our non U.S. defined benefit plans for the three months ended January 31, 2007 compared to approximately $8 million during the same period in 2006. Total contributions in the three months ended January 31, 2007 were approximately $17 million or 65 percent less than in the same period in 2006. Our annual contributions are dependent on the funded status of our plans which are affected by several factors including the performance of our assets in comparison to our projected benefit obligations. We expect to contribute approximately $30 million to our non U.S. plans for the remainder of 2007.
 
Net cash provided by operating activities from discontinued operations related to semiconductor products business was $7 million during the first quarter of 2006. Discontinued operations related to semiconductor test solutions business used $31 million during the same period. We did not have any cash flows from operating activities related to discontinued operations in 2007.
 
Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities
 
Net cash used in investing activities of continuing operations for the three months ended January 31, 2007 was $93 million compared to $1,925 million provided in the same period in 2006.
 
In 2006, we divested our semiconductor products business for $2.5 billion, net of transaction costs and taxes. We also completed the sale of our ownership in Lumileds to Philips for approximately $949 million, plus repayment of approximately $51 million of outstanding principal debt and accrued interest from Lumileds in the first quarter of 2006.
 
In 2006, restricted cash, cash equivalents and investments, net increased by approximately $1.6 billion. We are required to hold restricted cash, cash equivalents and investments due to the financing described under "net cash used in financing activities" below.
 
Investments in property, plant and equipment were $37 million, a decrease of $10 million from 2006 levels. We believe that total capital expenditure for the current year will be approximately $150 million compared to last year's $185 million. The higher capital expenditure during the last year was due to our site consolidation and relocation following the semiconductor products business divestiture and spin-off of our semiconductor test solutions business. In the three months ended January 31, 2007, we invested $70 million in four acquisitions and several intangible assets, net of cash acquired, compared to $15 million for the period ended January 31, 2006. Proceeds from the sale of investments were $12 million.
 
Net cash used in investing activities from discontinued operations related to semiconductor products business and semiconductor test solutions business was $6 million and $3 million, respectively, during the first quarter of 2006. We did not have any cash flows from investing activities related to discontinued operations in 2007.
 
Net Cash Used in Financing Activities
 
Net cash used in financing activities for the three months ended January 31, 2007 was $169 million compared to $1,280 million used during the same period in 2006.
 
Our board of directors authorized a new stock repurchase program of up to $2 billion in the fourth quarter of 2006. We repurchased approximately 7.6 million shares for $254 million during the first quarter of 2007. We are authorized to repurchase shares of our common stock up to $1.7 billion in the remainder of 2007 and 2008. We repurchased 83 million shares for an aggregate amount of approximately $3 billion during the same period in 2006 under a different program.
 
Proceeds from issuance of common stock under employee stock plans were $85 million in first quarter of 2007 compared to $235 million during the same period of 2006. The increased activity in the first quarter of 2006 was primarily due to option exercises by employees of our semiconductor products business whose options were subject to accelerated vesting and 90-day term limitation upon the sale of our semiconductor products business.
 
In January 2006, Agilent Technologies World Trade, Inc., a consolidated wholly owned subsidiary of Agilent ("World Trade"), entered into a Master Repurchase Agreement and related Confirmation (together, the "Repurchase Agreement") with a third party pursuant to which World Trade sold 15,000 Class A preferred shares of one of its wholly owned subsidiaries having an aggregate liquidation preference of $1.5 billion. Pursuant to the Repurchase Agreement, World Trade is obligated to repurchase from the third party those preferred shares for 100 percent of their aggregate liquidation preference in January 2011. The $1.5 billion obligation of our subsidiary to repurchase the preferred shares has been classified as long-term debt on our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
 
Other
 
We have contractual commitments for non-cancelable operating leases. We have no other material non-cancelable guarantees or commitments.
 
Our liquidity is affected by many factors, some of which are based on normal ongoing operations of our business and some of which arise from fluctuations related to global economics and markets. Our cash balances are generated and held in many locations throughout the world. Local government regulations may restrict our ability to move cash balances to meet cash needs under certain circumstances. We do not currently expect such regulations and restrictions to impact our ability to pay vendors and conduct operations throughout our global organization.
 
On December 11, 2006, Moody's Investors Service ("Moody's") upgraded their corporate family rating and probability of default rating of Agilent from "Ba2" to "Ba1" and revised their rating outlook to positive, leaving unchanged the speculative grade liquidity rating of "SGL-1". On January 12, 2007, Standard & Poor's Rating Services ("S&P") raised its corporate credit and senior unsecured debt ratings of Agilent to "BBB-" from "BB+", with a "stable" ratings outlook.
 
Off Balance Sheet Arrangements
 
There were no substantial changes from our 2006 Current Report on Form 8-K to our off-balance sheet arrangements or contractual commitments in the first quarter of 2007.
 

Exhibit 99.3
 
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (UNAUDITED)
ITEM 1.
                   
 
 
 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of these condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
 
1. OVERVIEW
 
Agilent Technologies, Inc. ("we", "Agilent" or the "company"), incorporated in Delaware in May 1999, is a measurement company, providing core bio-analytical and electronic measurement solutions to the communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis industries. In the first quarter of 2006, we completed the divestiture of our semiconductor products business. In the third quarter of 2006, we completed the initial public offering of our semiconductor test solutions business, Verigy Ltd., ("Verigy"). Verigy was a majority-owned subsidiary of Agilent until the distribution of our remaining Verigy shares to Agilent stockholders on October 31, 2006. The results of our semiconductor products business and our semiconductor test solutions business are presented as discontinued operations for fiscal year 2006 in the condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
Our fiscal year end is October 31, and our fiscal quarters end on January 31, April 30 and July 31. Unless otherwise stated, all dates refer to our fiscal year and fiscal periods.
 
2. BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
. The amounts comprising of other income (expense), net in the consolidated statement of operations for the three and six months ended April 30, 2006, were reclassified to conform to the more detailed presentation used in 2007, which separately discloses interest income and interest expense.
Reclassifications
 
We have prepared the accompanying financial data for the three and six months ended April 30, 2007 and 2006 pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Certain information and footnote disclosures normally included in financial statements prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") in the U.S. have been condensed or omitted pursuant to such rules and regulations. The following discussion should be read in conjunction with our 2006 Current Report on Form 8-K.
Basis of Presentation.
 
In the opinion of management, the accompanying condensed consolidated financial statements contain all normal and recurring adjustments necessary to present fairly our condensed consolidated balance sheet as of April 30, 2007 and October 31, 2006, condensed consolidated statement of operations for the three and six months ended April 30, 2007 and 2006, and condensed consolidated statement of cash flows for the six months ended April 30, 2007 and 2006.
 
The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP in the U.S. requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our critical accounting policies are those that affect our financial statements materially and involve difficult, subjective or complex judgments by management. Those policies are revenue recognition, restructuring and asset impairment charges, inventory valuation, investment impairments, share-based compensation, retirement and post-retirement benefit plan assumptions, valuation of long-lived assets and accounting for income taxes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on management's best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the company in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates.
 
3. NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
 
In June 2006, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, "Accounting for Income Tax Uncertainties" ("FIN No. 48"). FIN No. 48 defines the threshold for recognizing the benefits of tax return positions in the financial statements as "more-likely-than-not" to be sustained by the taxing authority and provides guidance on the derecognition, measurement and classification of income tax uncertainties, along with any related interest and penalties. FIN No. 48 also includes guidance concerning accounting for income tax uncertainties in interim periods and increases the level of disclosures associated with any recorded income tax uncertainties. FIN No. 48 is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. The differences between the amounts recognized in the consolidated financial statements prior to the adoption of FIN No. 48 and the amounts reported after adoption will be accounted for as a cumulative-effect adjustment recorded to the beginning balance of retained earnings. We are currently evaluating the impact of FIN No. 48 on our consolidated financial statements.
 
In September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, "Employers' Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)" ("SFAS No. 158"), which requires companies to recognize a net liability or asset to report the funded status of their defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans on their balance sheets. Funded status is the difference between the fair market value of plan assets and the benefit obligation. The company will adopt the recognition provisions of SFAS No. 158 as of October 31, 2007 and plans to adopt the measurement date requirement as of October 31, 2009. SFAS No. 158 will be applied prospectively. If the company had adopted SFAS No. 158 at the end of fiscal 2006, using the company's year end actuarial valuations, the impact would have been a reduction in assets of $2 million, an increase in liabilities of $26 million, and a reduction of accumulated other comprehensive income of $28 million.
 
In September 2006, the Staff of the SEC issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 108, "Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements when Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements" ("SAB No. 108"). SAB No. 108 provides guidance on the consideration of the effects of prior year misstatements in quantifying current year misstatements for the purpose of determining whether the current year's financial statements are materially misstated. We adopted SAB No. 108 in our first quarter and the adoption had no material impact on our consolidated financial statements.
 
In February 2007, the FASB issued SFAS No. 159, "The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilitiesincluding an amendment of FAS 115" ("SFAS No. 159"). SFAS No. 159 allows companies to choose, at specified election dates, to measure eligible financial assets and liabilities at fair value that are not otherwise required to be measured at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses shall be reported on items for which the fair value option has been elected in earnings at each subsequent reporting date. SFAS No. 159 also establishes presentation and disclosure requirements. SFAS No. 159 is effective for fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2007 and will be applied prospectively. We are currently evaluating the impact of adopting SFAS No. 159 on our consolidated financial statements.
 
4. SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION
 
We follow the accounting provisions of SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment" ("SFAS No. 123 (R)"), for share-based awards granted to employees and directors including employee stock option awards, restricted stock units, employee stock purchases made under our Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP") and performance share awards under our Long-Term Performance Program ("LTPP") using the estimated grant date fair value method of accounting in accordance with SFAS No. 123 (R).
 
The impact on our results for share-based compensation was as follows:
 
 
In the second quarter of 2007, we issued 1.9 million restricted stock units. The estimated fair value of the restricted stock unit awards was determined based on the market price of Agilent's common stock on the date of grant. The restricted stock units were granted under the Agilent Technologies, Inc. 1999 Stock Plan. Restricted stock units generally vest at a rate of 25 percent per year over a period of four years from the date of grant and generally have a maximum contractual term of ten years.
 
Under the LTPP, the company's executive officers and other key employees are entitled to receive unrestricted shares of the company's stock after the end of a three-year period, if specified performance targets are met. The final award may vary as it is based on certain performance metrics. During the second quarter of 2007, we received the final performance results of our three years ended 2006 LTPP, which indicated that we exceeded our specified performance targets. Consequently, we recorded an incremental share-based compensation expense of $6 million for the three months ended April 30, 2007 to reflect this Plan's performance results.
In addition, in the three months ended April 30, 2007, we recorded $4 million of expense for the acceleration of unvested awards related to the separation of a senior executive.
 
Share-based compensation from continuing operations capitalized within inventory at April 30, 2007 and 2006 was $1 million and $1.5 million, respectively. The windfall tax benefit realized from exercised stock options and similar awards was immaterial for the three and six months ended April 30, 2007 and 2006.
 
The following assumptions were used during the three and six months ended April 30, 2007 and 2006 to estimate the fair value of options granted, ESPP purchases and the LTPP:
 
 
For the three and six months ended April 30, 2007 and 2006, the fair value of share-based awards for employee stock option awards and employee stock purchases made under our ESPP was estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. For the three and six months ended April 30, 2007 and 2006, shares granted under the LTPP were valued using a Monte Carlo simulation. Both the Black-Scholes and Monte Carlo simulation fair value models require the use of highly subjective and complex assumptions, including the option's expected life and the price volatility of the underlying stock.
 
The expected stock price volatility assumption was determined using the implied volatility for our stock for the three and six months ended April 30, 2007 and 2006. We estimate the stock price volatility using the implied volatility of Agilent's publicly traded, similarly priced, stock options. We have determined that implied volatility is more reflective of market conditions and a better indicator of expected volatility than using historical volatility or a combined method of determining volatility.
 
In the first quarter of 2007, we revised our estimate of the expected life of our employee stock options. In revising this estimate, we considered several factors, including the expected lives used by a peer group of companies and the historical option exercise behavior of our employees. In the first quarter of 2007, we granted the majority of our employee stock options to executive employees and the review of our data indicated that our executive employees, on average, exercise their options at 4.6 years.
 
Under the anti-dilution provision of the 1999 Stock Plan, on November 1, 2006, Agilent adjusted the exercise price downward and number of option shares upward for each outstanding employee stock option to preserve the value of the options after the Verigy spin-off. The impact of the adjusted exercise price and number of options has been reflected in our disclosures as of November 1, 2006.
5. PROVISION FOR TAXES
 
We recorded $33 million and $6 million of income tax provision for the three months and six months ended April 30, 2007. The tax provision for the six months ended April 30, 2007 includes a benefit of $50 million related to the reversal of a tax reserve for potential non-U.S. exposures where the statute of limitations has now expired. The provision for taxes was recorded for income generated in jurisdictions other than those in which the Company has full valuation allowances. We intend to maintain full valuation allowances in these jurisdictions until sufficient positive evidence exists to support the reversal of the valuation allowances.
 
6. NET INCOME PER SHARE
 
The following is a reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted net income per share computations for the periods presented below.
 
 
The dilutive effect of share-based awards is reflected in diluted net income per share by application of the treasury stock method, which includes consideration of unamortized share-based compensation required by SFAS No. 123 (R).
 
The following table presents options to purchase shares of common stock, which were not included in the computation of diluted net income per share because they were anti-dilutive.
 
 
RESTRICTED CASH & CASH EQUIVALENTS AND LONG-TERM DEBT
7.
 
Restricted cash and cash equivalents as of April 30, 2007 was $1,604 million. In January 2006, Agilent Technologies World Trade, Inc., a consolidated wholly owned subsidiary of Agilent, ("World Trade"), entered into a Master Repurchase Agreement and related Confirmation (together, the "Repurchase Agreement") with a third party pursuant to which World Trade sold 15,000 Class A preferred shares of one of its wholly owned subsidiaries having an aggregate liquidation preference of $1.5 billion. Pursuant to the Repurchase Agreement, World Trade is obligated to repurchase from the third party those preferred shares for 100 percent of their aggregate liquidation preference in January 2011. The $1.5 billion obligation of our subsidiary to repurchase the preferred shares has been classified as long-term debt on our condensed consolidated balance sheet. Included in restricted cash and cash equivalents is $1,581 million of short-term restricted commercial paper maintained in connection with our obligations per the Repurchase Agreement.
 
8. INVENTORY
 
9. GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
The following table presents goodwill balances and the movements for each of our reportable segments during the six months ended April 30, 2007:
 
 
The components of other intangibles as of April 30, 2007 and October 31, 2006 are shown in the table below:
 
 
We recorded approximately $40 million of goodwill and $26 million of other intangibles during the six months ended April 30, 2007, primarily related to four acquisitions that closed in the first quarter of 2007. Pro forma disclosures were not required for these acquisitions, as they are not material.
 
Amortization of intangible assets was $8 million and $16 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2007, respectively, and $7 million and $11 million for the same periods in the prior year. Future amortization expense related to existing purchased intangible assets is estimated to be $17 million for the remainder of 2007, $24 million for 2008, $17 million for 2009 and $35 million thereafter.
 
10. RETIREMENT PLANS AND POST RETIREMENT PENSION PLANS
 
For the three and six months ended April 30, 2007 and 2006, our net pension and post retirement benefit costs were comprised of the following:
Components of net periodic costs.
 
 
In the U.S., because of lump sum payouts during the three months ended January 31, 2007, we recorded a settlement in accordance with by SFAS No. 88, "Employers' Accounting for Settlements and Curtailments of Defined Benefit Pension Plans and for Termination Benefits," ("SFAS No. 88"). The impact to the U.S. Plans was a gain of $1 million.
 
We contributed approximately zero and $8 million to our U.S. defined benefit plans during the three and six months ended April 30, 2007 and zero and $41 million, respectively, for the same periods in 2006. We contributed approximately $7 million and $16 million to our non-U.S. defined benefit plans during the three and six months ended April 30, 2007 and $21 million and $29 million, respectively, for the same periods in 2006. The reduced funding amounts in the U.S. were due to an improved funded status, primarily due to an increase in asset returns. We expect to contribute approximately $25 million to our U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit plans during the remainder of fiscal 2007.
 
11. WARRANTIES
 
Standard Warranty
 
We accrue for standard warranty costs in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies" ("SFAS No. 5"), based on historical trends in warranty charges as a percentage of gross product shipments. The accrual is reviewed regularly and periodically adjusted to reflect changes in warranty cost estimates. Estimated warranty charges are recorded within cost of products at the time products are sold. Our standard warranty terms typically extend for one year from the date of delivery.
 
 
 
Extended Warranty
 
Revenue from our extended warranty contracts with terms beyond one year is deferred and recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract period. Related costs are expensed as incurred. Amounts representing warranty contracts for the next twelve months are included in deferred revenue on the condensed consolidated balance sheet and were $50 million and $43 million at April 30, 2007 and October 31, 2006, respectively. The long-term amounts are recorded in other liabilities on the condensed consolidated balance sheet and were $55 million at both April 30, 2007 and October 31, 2006.
 
 
12. RESTRUCTURING
 
We initiated several restructuring plans in prior periods: the 2001 Plan, the 2002 Plan and the 2003 Plan ("Prior Plans"). As of April 30, 2007, we have executed all key activities on the Prior Plans. However, charges in connection with the consolidation of excess facilities continue to be recorded due to changes in market conditions from those originally expected. Payments will continue to be made related to these properties over the next five years.
 
Our FY2005 Plan was announced in the fourth quarter of 2005. As a consequence of selling our semiconductor products business and spinning off our semiconductor test solutions business, the FY2005 Plan is designed to align our workforce with our smaller revenue base. The FY2005 Plan consists of voluntary and involuntary terminations. During the three and six months ended April 30, 2007 we incurred $7 million and $16 million, respectively, in charges related to the FY2005 Plan, mostly associated with individuals notified prior to October 31, 2006.
 
A summary of restructuring activity for the six months ended April 30, 2007 is shown in the table below:
 
 
The restructuring accrual for all plans, which totaled $48 million as of April 30, 2007 and $71 million as of October 31, 2006, is recorded in other accrued liabilities and other long-term liabilities on the condensed consolidated balance sheet and represents estimated future cash outlays. Completion of the workforce reduction component of the FY2005 Plan is expected by the end of fiscal year 2007; however, lease payments for excess facilities are expected to extend over the next five years.
 
A summary of the statement of operations impact of the charges resulting from all restructuring plans is shown below:
 
13. COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
 
The following table presents the components of comprehensive income:
 
 
 
14. STOCK REPURCHASE PROGRAM
 
In the fourth quarter of 2006, our Board of Directors authorized a $2 billion stock repurchase program and subsequently, during the second quarter of 2007, they approved an acceleration of the remaining amount of repurchases under the program. We plan to complete the accelerated repurchases by the end of 2007.
 
The following repurchases under the above program were completed in the periods presented below:
 
 
The remaining amount that is authorized under the plan is approximately $1.3 billion. All such shares and related costs are held as treasury stock and accounted for using the cost method.
 
15. SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
We are a measurement company, providing core bio-analytical and electronic measurement solutions to the communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis industries. During 2006, we completed the divestiture of our semiconductor products business and spin-off of our semiconductor test solutions business. After this reorganization, Agilent has two businesses  bio-analytical measurement and electronic measurement  each of which comprises a reportable segment. In the beginning of the third quarter of 2007, we moved the nanotechnology measurement business from the electronics measurement segment to the bio-analytical measurement segment to more closely align with the new materials sciences business in that segment. All historical segment numbers have been recast to conform to this change in reportable segments.
 
The segments were determined based primarily on how the chief operating decision maker views and evaluates our operations. Other factors, including customer base, homogeneity of products, technology and delivery channels, were also considered in determining our reportable segments.
 
A significant portion of the segments' expenses arise from shared services and infrastructure that we have historically provided to the segments in order to realize economies of scale and to efficiently use resources. These expenses, collectively
called corporate charges, include costs of centralized research and development, legal, accounting, real estate, insurance services, information technology services, treasury and other corporate infrastructure expenses. Charges are allocated to the segments, and the allocations have been determined on a basis that we considered to be a reasonable reflection of the utilization of services provided to or benefits received by the segments. For 2006, corporate charges previously allocated to our semiconductor products business and semiconductor test systems business, but not classified within discontinued operations, were not reallocated to our other segments. These charges are presented below as a component of the reconciliation between the segments' income from operations and Agilent's income from continuing operations and are classified as unallocated semiconductor products business corporate charges and unallocated semiconductor test systems business corporate charges.
 
The following tables reflect the results of our reportable segments under our management reporting system. These results are not necessarily in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the U.S. The performance of each segment is measured based on several metrics, including income from operations. These results are used, in part, by the chief operating decision maker in evaluating the performance of, and in allocating resources to, each of the segments.
 
The profitability of each of the segments is measured after excluding amortization and impairment of other intangibles, restructuring and asset impairment charges, share based compensation expense, investment gains and losses, interest income, interest expense and other items as noted in the reconciliation below.
 
 
 
The following table reconciles reportable segments' income from operations to Agilent's total enterprise income from continuing operations before taxes, equity income and gain on sale of Lumileds:
 
In January of 2007, we donated $20 million to the Agilent Foundation, which is a non-profit public benefit corporation for charitable and educational purposes.
 
The following table reflects segment assets under our management reporting system. Segment assets include allocations of corporate assets, including deferred tax assets, goodwill, other intangibles and other assets.
 
 
16. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS
 
Acquisition of Stratagene Corporation
 
On April 5, 2007, we signed a definitive agreement to acquire Stratagene Corporation (Nasdaq STGN), a publicly traded life sciences company based in La Jolla, California. Stratagene is a developer, manufacturer and marketer of specialized life science research and diagnostic products. Under the terms of the agreement, each share of Stratagene common stock will be converted into the right for shareholders to receive a cash payment of $10.94, or an aggregate amount of approximately $250 million. The acquisition, subject to certain customary closing conditions, is expected to close in early June.
 
Revolving Credit Facility
 
On May 11, 2007, we entered into a five-year credit agreement, which provides for a $300 million unsecured credit facility that will expire on May 11, 2012. The company may use amounts borrowed under the facility for general corporate purposes. The company is not borrowing under the facility at this time, but may borrow under the facility from time to time as needs arise.
ITEM 2. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)
 
The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the condensed consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this Form 10-Q and in our Annual Report on Form 10-K. This report contains forward-looking statements including, without limitation, statements regarding trends, seasonality and growth in the markets we sell into, our strategic direction, remediation activities, new product and service introductions, product pricing, changes to our manufacturing processes, the impact of local government regulations on our ability to pay vendors or conduct operations, our liquidity position, our ability to generate cash from continuing operations, growth in our businesses, our investments, our financial results, revenue generated from international sales, our cost-control activities, the status of our restructuring programs including our lease and severance payment obligations, our transition to lower-cost regions, and the existence or length of an economic recovery that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results could differ materially from the results contemplated by these forward-looking statements due to various factors, including those discussed below in "Risks, Uncertainties and Other Factors That May Affect Future Results" and elsewhere in this Form 10-Q.
 
Basis of Presentation
 
The financial information presented in this Form 10-Q is not audited and is not necessarily indicative of our future consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. Our fiscal year end is October 31, and our fiscal quarters end on January 31, April 30 and July 31. Unless otherwise stated, all dates refer to our fiscal year and fiscal periods.
 
In the first quarter of 2006, we completed the divestiture of our semiconductor products business. In the third quarter of 2006, we completed the initial public offering of our semiconductor test solutions business, Verigy Ltd. ("Verigy"). Verigy was a majority-owned subsidiary of Agilent until the distribution of our remaining Verigy shares to Agilent stockholders on October 31, 2006. The results of our semiconductor products business and our semiconductor test solutions business are presented as discontinued operations for fiscal year 2006 in the condensed consolidated financial statements.
 
Executive Summary
 
Agilent Technologies, Inc. ("we", "Agilent" or the "company") is a measurement company, providing core bio-analytical and electronic measurement solutions to the communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis industries. Agilent has two businesses focused on the electronic measurement market and the bio-analytical measurement market.
 
For the three and six months ended April 30, 2007, total orders were $1.40 billion and $2.65 billion, respectively, up 10 percent and 8 percent in comparison to the same periods last year. Bio-analytical orders grew 15 percent, the fourth consecutive quarter of double digit order growth. Electronic measurement orders were up 7 percent for the quarter, double the average of the prior four quarters. We saw signs that wireless manufacturing test market may be bottoming.
 
Net revenue of $1.32 billion and $2.60 billion for the three and six months ended April 30, 2007 was up 7 percent and 8 percent, respectively, from the same periods last year. Two percent of the net revenue growth was due to currency for the three and six months ended April 30, 2007. Bio-analytical revenues were up 15 percent in the three months ended April 30, 2007 and electronic measurement revenues grew only 3 percent, mostly reflecting the weakness of the wireless manufacturing test market.
 
Income from continuing operations for the three and six months ended April 30, 2007 was $123 million and $273 million, respectively, and $121 million and $1,095 million for the corresponding periods last year. A gain of $56 million in the three months ended April 30, 2006 was recorded on the sale of the San Jose site and, for the six months ended April 30, 2006, a gain of $901 million was recorded on the sale of an equity investment, Lumileds. Net income for the six months ended April 30, 2006 includes $1,821 million from, and gain on the sale of, discontinued operations of our semiconductor products business and $15 million for the income from discontinued operations of our semiconductor test solutions business.
 
In the six months ended April 30, 2007, we generated $395 million of operating cash compared with $127 million generated in the six moths of the prior year. The improvement in year over year operating cash was driven by the increase in net operating income together with a $45 million reduction in disbursements relating to restructuring activities, a $92 million decrease in tax payments and a $46 million reduction in contributions to defined benefit plans when compared to the prior year.
Looking forward, our focus will be to grow revenue at a faster rate than the electronic measurement and bio-analytical markets, primarily through increasing market share, expanding our served market size with new products and channels and by complementary acquisitions. Our primary strategy is to pursue profitable growth by expanding our leadership in core/adjacent markets and seeking revenue growth opportunities.
 
Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates
 
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations is based upon our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP") in the U.S. The preparation of condensed consolidated financial statements in conformity with GAAP in the U.S. requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in our condensed consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. Our critical accounting policies are those that affect our financial statements materially and involve difficult, subjective or complex judgments by management. Those policies are revenue recognition, restructuring and asset impairment charges, inventory valuation, investment impairments, share-based compensation, retirement and post-retirement benefit plan assumptions, valuation of long-lived assets and accounting for income taxes. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various other assumptions believed to be reasonable. Although these estimates are based on management's best knowledge of current events and actions that may impact the company in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates.
 
An accounting policy is deemed to be critical if it requires an accounting estimate to be made based on assumptions about matters that are highly uncertain at the time the estimate is made, and if different estimates that reasonably could have been used or changes in the accounting estimate that are reasonably likely to occur could materially change the financial statements.
 
. The expected stock price volatility assumption was determined using the implied volatility for our stock for the three and six months ended April 30, 2007 and 2006. We estimate the stock price volatility using the implied volatility of Agilent's publicly traded, similarly priced, stock options. We have determined that implied volatility is more reflective of market conditions and a better indicator of expected volatility than using historical volatility or a combined method of determining volatility. In reaching this conclusion, we have considered many factors including the extent to which our options are traded and our ability to find traded options with similar terms and prices to the options we are valuing. A 10 percent increase in our estimated volatility from 25 percent to 35 percent would generally increase the value of an award and the associated compensation cost by approximately 25 percent if no other factors were changed.
Share-based compensation
 
In the first quarter of 2007, we revised our estimate of the expected life of our employee stock options. In revising this estimate, we considered several factors, including the expected lives used by a peer group of companies and the historical option exercise behavior of our employees. In the first quarter of 2007, we granted the majority of our employee stock options to executive employees and the review of our data indicated that our executive employees, on average, exercise their options at 4.6 years. See Note 4, "Share-Based Compensation," to the condensed consolidated financial statements for more information.
 
No events occurred or circumstances changed during the six months ended April 30, 2007 that required us to test goodwill or purchased intangibles for impairment.
Goodwill and purchased intangible assets.
 
Adoption of New Pronouncements
 
See Note 3, "New Accounting Pronouncements," to the condensed consolidated financial statements for a description of new accounting pronouncements.
 
Restructuring and Asset Impairment
 
We initiated several restructuring plans in prior periods: the 2001 Plan, the 2002 Plan and the 2003 Plan ("Prior Plans"). We have executed all key activities on the Prior Plans. However, charges in connection with the consolidation of excess facilities continue to be recorded due to changes in market conditions from those originally expected. Payments will continue to be made related to these properties over the next five years.
 
Our FY2005 Plan was announced in the fourth quarter of 2005. As a consequence of selling our semiconductor products business and spinning off our semiconductor test solutions business, the FY2005 Plan is designed to align our workforce with our smaller revenue base. The FY2005 Plan consists of voluntary and involuntary terminations. During the three and six months ended April 30, 2007 we incurred $7 million and $16 million, respectively, in charges related to the
FY2005 Plan, mostly associated with individuals notified prior to October 31, 2006. Future charges of approximately $1 million are also expected for these individuals, with some limited additional charges expected for individuals to be notified in future periods. We expect to complete all actions associated with the FY2005 Plan by the end of fiscal 2007.
 
Subsequent to the FY2005 Plan, we continue to realign our businesses to the changing economic environment, although such actions do not constitute a restructuring plan as each action is individually immaterial. Actions taken to date are expected to result in approximately $18 million of workforce management charges over the next year, of which approximately $3 million was recorded in the second quarter of 2007.
 
See Note 12, "Restructuring and Asset Impairment," of the condensed consolidated financial statements for more details relating to the restructuring plans and asset impairment activity.
 
Foreign Currency
 
Our revenues, costs and expenses, and monetary assets and liabilities are exposed to changes in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of our global operating and financing activities. We hedge net cash flow and balance sheet exposures that are not denominated in the functional currencies of our subsidiaries on a short term and anticipated basis. We do experience some fluctuations within individual lines of the condensed consolidated statement of operations and balance sheet as our hedging program is not designed to offset the currency movements in each category of revenues, expenses, monetary assets and liabilities. However, movements in exchange rates net of our hedging activities had no material effect on our net income in the periods presented.
 
Results from Continuing Operations
 
In the beginning of the third quarter of 2007, we moved the nanotechnology measurement business from the electronics measurement segment to the bio-analytical measurement segment to more closely align with the new materials sciences business in that segment. All historical segment numbers have been recast to conform to this change in reportable segments.
 
Orders and Net Revenue
 
 
Agilent orders increased 10 percent and 8 percent for the three month and six months ended April 30, 2007, respectively, compared to the same periods in 2006.
 
Our bio-analytical measurement business recorded order growth of 15 percent for both the three and six month periods ended April 30, 2007 when compared to the prior year periods with strength in all of our markets. In comparison with the prior year, electronic measurement orders grew by 7 percent in the three months ended April 30, 2007 with sustained momentum in the general purpose test market and an indication that orders may be bottoming in the wireless manufacturing test market.
 
Agilent net revenue increased 7 percent and 8 percent for the three month and six months ended April 30, 2007 compared to the same periods last year.
 
The bio-analytical measurement business achieved revenue growth of 15 percent and 18 percent for the three and six months ended April 30, 2007 with strength across the portfolio of instruments, consumables and services.
 
Electronic measurement business revenues increased by 3 percent for both the three and six months ended April 30, 2007 compared with the prior year. Communications test revenue continued to be impacted by the weakness in wireless manufacturing test market.
Services and other revenue include revenue generated from servicing our installed base of products, warranty extensions and consulting. Services and other revenue for the three month and six months ended April 30, 2007 increased by 7 percent for both periods, as compared to the same periods last year. Service revenue trends tend to lag product revenue due to the deferral of significant service revenue, which is recognized over extended time periods.
 
Backlog
 
At April 30, 2007, our unfilled orders for the electronic measurement business amounted to approximately $790 million, as compared to approximately $730 million at April 30, 2006. At April 30, 2007, our unfilled orders for the bio-analytical measurement business were approximately $280 million, as compared to approximately $240 million at April 30, 2006. We expect that a large majority of the unfilled orders for both businesses will be delivered to customers within nine months. On average, our unfilled orders represent approximately two months' worth of revenues. In light of this experience, backlog on any particular date, while indicative of short-term revenue performance, is not necessarily a reliable indicator of medium or long-term revenue performance.
 
Operating Results
 
 
Total gross margins increased 4 percentage points and 3 percentage points for the three and six months ended April 30, 2007 compared to the same periods last year. The improvement in gross margins during the three months ended April 30, 2007 continued to be influenced by the refunctionalization of general infrastructure allocations from cost of goods sold to research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses which took place after the second quarter of 2006. Going forward, this change should not drive any further impact on gross margin comparisons as the shift was effective in our third quarter of 2006 results. The lower allocations to gross margins reflect the ongoing headcount profile that is now less manufacturing intensive since the divestiture of our semiconductor products business. In addition, the relative strength of foreign currencies has continued to increase gross margins when compared with the prior year. The increase has been offset by corresponding increases in expenses and the offset of hedging gains and losses and, overall, had an immaterial impact on income from operations.
 
Research and development expenses increased 1 percent for the three and six months ended April 30, 2007 compared to the same periods last year. The main drivers for the increase continued to be the above-mentioned general infrastructure refunctionalization and currency changes. In addition, incremental increases for share based compensation in the three and six months ended April 30, 2007 have been offset by reductions in restructuring charges. We remain committed to bringing new products to market, and have focused our development efforts on key strategic opportunities in order to align our business with available markets and position ourselves to capture market share.
 
Selling, general and administrative expenses remained constant and increased by 3 percent for the three month and six months ended April 30, 2007, compared to the same periods last year. There were significant reductions in restructuring costs of $38 million and $54 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2007, respectively. These costs reductions were partially offset by the impact of the general infrastructure refunctionalization, currency movements and acquisition costs. In addition, there were increases in share-based compensation of $11 million and $12 million for the three and six months ended April 30, 2007 compared to the same periods last year and a donation made in the first quarter of 2007 of $20 million to the Agilent Foundation.
 
At April 30, 2007, our headcount for continuing operations was approximately 18,900 as compared to approximately 18,750 at April 30, 2006.
 
General Infrastructure and Shared Services
 
For Agilent overall we have decreased our infrastructure costs compared to last year, primarily through continuing restructuring activities and streamlining our operations. We have reduced the number of employees in our workforce that provide support services such as finance, IT and workplace services and moved many of our global shared services operations sites to lower cost regions.
 
Provision for Income Taxes
 
For the three months and six months ended April 30, 2007, we recorded an income tax provision of $33 million and $6 million on continuing operations compared to an income tax provision of $23 million and $33 million in the same periods last year. The income tax provision for the six months ended April 30, 2007 includes a benefit of $50 million related to the resolution of non-U.S. tax issues associated with the 2000 spin-off of Agilent from Hewlett-Packard. The provision was recorded for taxes on income generated in jurisdictions other than those in which the Company has full valuation allowances. We intend to maintain full valuation allowances in these jurisdictions until sufficient positive evidence exists to support the reversal of the valuation allowances.
 
For 2007, the current estimate of the annual effective tax rate is 13 percent on continuing operations. The income tax rate for continuing operations was 2 percent for the six months ended April 30, 2007. The tax rates for both the six months ended April 30, 2007 and fiscal year 2007 benefited from the resolution of $50 million of international tax issues. The benefit was treated as a discrete event during the quarter ended January 31, 2007. Excluding the impact of the $50 million tax benefit, we anticipate the full-year 2007 effective tax rate on continuing operations to be approximately 19 percent. The overall tax rate reflects taxes in jurisdictions other than the U.S. and foreign jurisdictions in which income tax expense or benefit continues to be offset by adjustments to the valuation allowances. This tax rate may change over time as the amount or mix of income and taxes changes. Our effective tax rate is calculated using our projected annual pre-tax income or loss from continuing operations and is affected by research tax credits, the expected level of other tax benefits, the effects of business acquisitions and dispositions, the impact of changes to valuation allowances, changes in other comprehensive income, as well as changes in the mix of income and losses in the jurisdictions in which the Company operates which have varying statutory rates.
 
In connection with an Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") audit of our U.S. federal income tax returns for 2000 through 2002, we received various Notices of Proposed Adjustment ("NOPA"). In particular, we received a NOPA in October 2006 and a NOPA in January 2007 in which the IRS claims significant increases to our U.S. taxable income, which could result in a commensurate increase in our U.S. income taxes payable. The October 2006 NOPA relates to the use of Agilent's brand name by our foreign affiliates. The January 2007 NOPA relates to a deemed dividend between Agilent's affiliates. We expect to receive a Revenue Agent's Report with respect to the October 2006 NOPA in due course in which we anticipate the IRS will assert a significant aggregate tax deficiency, plus interest and possible penalties. The January 2007 NOPA may be included in the Revenue Agent's Report if we are unsuccessful in addressing it before the IRS audit concludes. We believe that the claimed IRS adjustments are inconsistent with applicable tax laws and that the chance of the IRS prevailing on the claims is remote. Accordingly, we will oppose the claimed adjustments vigorously. In accordance with SFAS No. 5, "Accounting for Contingencies," we have not accrued an income tax liability in our financial statements as we believe the possibility that the IRS will be successful in its claim for the adjustments is remote.
 
For all U.S. and other tax jurisdictions, we recognize potential liabilities for anticipated tax audit issues based on our estimate of whether, and the extent to which, additional taxes and interest will be due. If our estimate of income tax liabilities proves to be less than the ultimate assessment, a further charge to expense would be required. If events occur and the payment of these amounts ultimately proves to be unnecessary, the reversal of the liabilities would result in tax benefits being recognized in the period when we determine the liabilities are no longer necessary.
 
Segment Overview
 
Agilent is the world's premier measurement company providing core bio-analytical and electronic measurement solutions to the communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis industries. Agilent has two businesses focused on the electronic measurement market and the bio-analytical measurement market.
 
Electronic Measurement
 
Our electronic measurement business provides standard and customized solutions that are used in the design, development, manufacture, installation, deployment and operation of electronic equipment and systems and communications networks and services.
Orders and Net Revenue
 
 
Overall orders for the three and six months ended April 30, 2007 increased 7 percent and 5 percent compared with the same periods last year, with growth in our nano-positioning, oscilloscopes, digital test systems, parametric test and aerospace/defense focused businesses. Weakness in business associated with wireless manufacturing test persisted but the orders were better than those in the previous quarter.
 
Revenues for the three and six months ended April 30, 2007 increased 3 percent compared to the same periods last year. General purpose test revenues of $528 million and $1,008 million increased 10 percent for both  the three and six months ended April 30, 2007, compared to the same periods last year. Our general purpose end markets continue to experience solid growth fueled by the ongoing global economic expansion and rising consumer spending on electronics. We saw growth this quarter driven by successful test solutions to emerging consumer technologies such as the high definition multimedia interface ("HDMI") 1.3 for converged high-definition audio/visual system transmission. The computing and semiconductor end markets continued to perform well as ever-increasing complexity of device and system technologies require our leading-edge test solutions. Communications test revenues of $329 million and $645 million decreased 7 percent for both of the three and six months ended April 30, 2007 compared to the same periods last year. The decrease was driven mainly by weaker demand in wireless manufacturing test. Other communications test markets (such as wireline and wireless R&D) were more stable with moderate growth compared to last year.
 
Looking forward, we project continued opportunities for growth in our electronic measurement business. We expect growth to be driven by our customers' expansion of wireless 3G coverage and services (high data rate, multi-media services supported by multi-functional handsets) as well as by opportunities in broadband access, voice-over-internet-protocol and fiber-to-the-home, all fueled by consumer demand for voice/data/video converged services. We believe the aerospace/defense market's overall longer-term trends of spending growth in areas of signal intelligence, communications, surveillance and information warfare bode well for longer-term growth in test and measurement sales into this market. This growth potential could be mitigated by potential slowdowns in spending on new communications technologies, governmental budgetary shifts and contraction in the semiconductor market.
 
Operating Results
 
 
Gross margin increased 3 percentage points for the three and six months ended April 30, 2007 compared to the same periods last year. Several factors drove the improvement in the three and six months ended April 30, 2007 compared with the same periods in the prior year: a change in the classification of corporate overhead charges from cost of sales to operating expenses along with lower corporate overhead spending; movement of spending and activities from product cost to operating expenses; improved product material costs and more favorable mix of products.
 
Research and development expenses for the three and six months ended April 30, 2007 increased 10 percent as compared to the same periods last year. The increase was driven by continued investment in new technologies and market expansion opportunities, the impact of currency movement and internal reclassification of costs from cost of sales to research and development.
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 8 percent and 7 percent for the three and six months ended April 30, 2007 over the same periods in the prior year. The increase was driven by selective spending increases in support of growth initiatives, acquisitions, unfavorable impact of currency movements and a change in the classification of corporate overhead charges from cost of sales to operating expenses. Income from operations for the three months and six months ended April 30, 2007 increased $9 million and $14 million when compared to the same periods last year.
 
Bio-analytical Measurement
 
Our bio-analytical measurement business provides application-focused solutions that include instruments, software, consumables and services that enable customers to identify, quantify and analyze the physical and biological properties of substances and products. Our seven key product categories include: microarrays, microfluidics, gas chromatography, liquid chromatography, mass spectrometry, software and informatics, and related consumables, reagents and services.
 
Orders and Net Revenue
 
 
Bio-analytical measurement business had a strong quarter and first half year, with double digit year over year growth for both orders and revenue. Results were consistent with our normal seasonal patterns and reflected the strong demand across virtually all of our markets.
 
Orders for the three month and six months ended April 30, 2007, grew 15 percent when compared to the same periods last year, with the second quarter achieving double digit growth for the forth consecutive quarter. In our chemical analysis business, we continued to see strength from food and environmental markets together with demand for instrumentation in petrochemical industries. In life sciences we saw demand from pharmaceutical companies, contract research organizations, and generic drug manufacturers.
 
Revenue for the three and six months ended April 30, 2007, grew 15 percent and 18 percent, respectively, from the same periods last year. Chemical analysis and life sciences had year over year growth of 11 percent and 20 percent, respectively, for the second quarter and revenues of $268 million and $195 million, respectively. This performance was also reflected in the results for the six months ended April 30, 2007, as both segments had year over year growth of 16 percent for chemical analysis and 22 percent for life sciences.
 
Chemical analysis continues to see good demand for environmental and forensic testing solutions. Continued higher average oil prices have also driven demand for our petrochemical testing solutions. Environmental, one of our larger markets, had growth of approximately 14 percent for the three month and approximately 11 percent for the six month results compared to the same periods last year. This performance was driven by increased testing of drinking water, solid waste testing, and air monitoring, especially in China and India. Our forensics market also increased with year over year growth of over 30 percent and approximately 40 percent for the three and six months ended April 30, 2007. Increased drug use in select regions coupled with an expanded list of abused substances drove the demand for new testing protocols for this market. Petrochemical showed slower year over year growth in the second quarter compared with the same period last year, as customers transitioned to our new gas chromatography ("GC") and gas chromatography/mass spectrometry ("GC/MS") products  pushing out revenues for this market into the third quarter. On a year to date basis, petrochemical grew nearly 20 percent versus the prior year, as this market continues to benefit from system replacements in Americas and Europe, construction of new refineries in India and China, and worldwide demand for alternative fuels such as bio-diesel. Growth in this sector was driven by updated food safety regulations in China and India and by overall increases made to regulatory standards worldwide.
 
In life sciences, we saw good demand from pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies, contract research organizations and generic drug manufacturers. We are also seeing more pharmaceutical collaboration with both university and federal research labs. While in the academic and government markets, funding remains strong across the major regions. From a product perspective, revenue growth for this market segment was driven by continued success of our new 1200-series liquid chromatography platform, particularly the rapid resolution system, high-performance liquid chromatograph columns, single quad, triple quad, quadrupole time of flight mass spectrometers, and microarrays.
Looking forward, we expect growth to continue from our recently released products such as rapid resolution liquid chromatography and enhanced single quadrupole liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry, triple quadrupole mass spectrometry, quadrupole time-of-flight mass spectrometry, gas chromatography and gas chromatography mass spectrometry systems.
 
Operating Results
 
 
For the three and six months ended April 30, 2007, gross margin improved 3 percentage points compared to the same periods last year. The improvement in gross margin was driven by increased revenue, manufacturing efficiencies, refunctionalization of general infrastructure allocations from cost of goods sold to research and development and selling, general and administrative expenses, and savings from selected cost reduction programs.
 
Research and development expenses increased 3 percent and were flat for the three and six months ended April 30, 2007, compared to the same periods last year. Spending was relatively flat to prior year investment levels.
 
Selling, general and administrative expenses increased 17 percent and 19 percent for the three and six months ended April 30, 2007, compared to the same periods last year. This increase was due to higher employee-related costs, higher sales commissions, investments in marketing programs, and higher general infrastructure costs.
 
For the three and six months ended April 30, 2007, operating margin increased 3 percentage points and 4 percentage points, respectively, compared to the same periods a year ago. These increases were due to higher revenues and operational efficiencies offsetting increased selling, general, and administrative investments to accommodate growth.
 
FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources
 
Our financial position as of April 30, 2007 consisted of cash and cash equivalents of $2,050 million as compared to $2,262 million as of October 31, 2006.
 
Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities of Continuing Operations
 
Net cash provided by operating activities of continuing operations was $395 million in the six months ended April 30, 2007 compared to $127 million provided in the same period in 2006. Looking forward to the remainder of the year, we expect to generate sufficient cash from continuing operations to fund our operations and investments in property, plant and equipment.
 
In the six months ended April 30, 2007, accounts receivable used cash of $4 million as compared to cash used of $36 million in the same period in 2006. Agilent revenues increased by approximately 8 percent in the first half of 2007 as compared to the same period in 2006, however, days sales outstanding decreased to 49 days as of April 30, 2007 from 53 days a year ago reflecting the continued improvement in receivables management. Accounts payable used cash of $31 million for the six months ended April 30, 2007 versus cash generation of $72 million in the same period in 2006. Cash used for inventory was $30 million for the six months ended April 30, 2007 compared to cash used of $17 million in the same period in 2006. Inventory days on-hand increased to 99 days as of April 30, 2007 compared to 92 days as of the end of the same period last year due to weakness in electronic measurement and our expectation for stronger segment growth in this year's second half.
We made disbursements for restructuring activities of $39 million in the first six months of 2007, primarily in the form of severance payments, compared to $84 million during the same period of 2006. We have also paid approximately $103 million during the first half of 2007 under our variable pay programs, as compared to $93 million paid out during the first half of 2006.
 
We paid approximately $33 million in taxes in the first half of 2007 as compared to $125 million in the same period in 2006. The higher tax payments in 2006 were mostly associated with the U.S. tax liability created in 2005 for repatriation of earnings from our foreign subsidiaries of $970 million under the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004, and with the 2005 federal alternate minimum tax.
 
We contributed approximately $8 million to our U.S. defined benefit plans in the first half of 2007, compared to $41 million in 2006. We contributed approximately $16 million to our non-U.S. defined benefit plans in the first half of 2007 compared to $29 million in 2006. Our international defined benefit plans are generally funded ratably throughout the year. Total contributions in the six months ended April 30, 2007 were approximately $24 million compared to $70 million during the same period in the prior year. Our annual contributions are highly dependent on the relative performance of our assets versus our projected liabilities, among other factors. The reduced funding amounts in the U.S. were due to an improved funded status. We expect to contribute approximately $25 million to our U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit plans during the remainder of fiscal 2007.
 
Net Cash Provided by (Used in) Investing Activities of Continuing Operations
 
Net cash used in investing activities of continuing operations for the six months ended April 30, 2007 was $129 million compared to $1,852 million generated in the same period of 2006.
 
Cash generation in the first half of 2006 was high due to the divestiture of our semiconductor products business for $2.5 billion, net of transaction costs and taxes. We also completed the sale of our ownership in Lumileds to Philips for $949 million. During the first half of 2006, restricted cash and cash equivalents, net increased by approximately $1.6 billion. We are required to hold restricted cash and cash equivalents due to the financing described under "net cash used in financing activities" below.
 
Investments in property, plant and equipment were $79 million in the first half of 2007, almost flat compared to the same period in 2006. We believe that total capital expenditures for the current year will be approximately $150 million compared to capital expenditures last year of $185 million. The higher capital expenditure during the last year was due to the site consolidation and relocation following the semiconductor products business divestiture and spin-off of our semiconductor test solutions business. Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment were $8 million in the six months ended April 30, 2007 as compared to $89 million in the same period of 2006. In the second quarter of 2006, we sold our San Jose site facility for net proceeds of $87 million. During the first half of 2007, we invested $72 million in four acquisitions and several intangible assets, net of cash acquired, compared to $24 million during the same period of 2006.
 
Net Cash Used in Financing Activities
 
Net cash used in financing activities for the six months ended April 30, 2007 was $489 million compared to $1,571 million used in the same period of 2006.
 
Our board of directors authorized a new stock repurchase program of up to $2 billion in the fourth quarter of 2006. We repurchased approximately 19 million shares for $636 million during the first half of 2007 as compared to approximately 96 million shares for approximately $3.5 billion during the same period in 2006 under a different program. During the second quarter of 2007, our Board of Directors authorized acceleration of this program. As of April 30, 2007, we had authorization of approximately $1.3 billion remaining for future share repurchases that we expect to complete by end of this fiscal year. We may need to borrow funds or enter into other financing transactions in order to complete the remainder of our share repurchases in this fiscal year. Proceeds from issuance of common stock under employee stock plans were $147 million in first half of 2007 compared to $448 million during the same period of 2006.
 
In January 2006, Agilent Technologies World Trade, Inc., a consolidated wholly owned subsidiary of Agilent ("World Trade"), entered into a Master Repurchase Agreement and related Confirmation (together, the "Repurchase Agreement") with a third party pursuant to which World Trade sold 15,000 Class A preferred shares of one of its wholly owned subsidiaries having an aggregate liquidation preference of $1.5 billion. Pursuant to the Repurchase Agreement, World Trade is obligated to repurchase from the third party those preferred shares for 100 percent of their aggregate liquidation preference in January 2011. The $1.5 billion obligation of our subsidiary to repurchase the preferred shares has been classified as long-term debt on our condensed consolidated balance sheet.
Off Balance Sheet Arrangements and Other
 
There were no substantial changes from our 2006 Current Report on Form 8-K to our off-balance sheet arrangements or contractual commitments in the second quarter of fiscal year 2007. We have contractual commitments for non-cancelable operating leases. We have no other material non-cancelable guarantees or commitments.
 
Our liquidity is affected by many factors, some of which are based on normal ongoing operations of our business and some of which arise from fluctuations related to global economics and markets. Our cash balances are generated and held in many locations throughout the world. Local government regulations may restrict our ability to move cash balances to meet cash needs under certain circumstances. We do not currently expect such regulations and restrictions to impact our ability to pay vendors and conduct operations throughout our global organization.
 
On December 11, 2006, Moody's Investors Service ("Moody's") upgraded their corporate family rating and probability of default rating of Agilent from "Ba2" to "Ba1" and revised their rating outlook to positive, leaving unchanged the speculative grade liquidity rating of "SGL-1". On March 22, 2007, Moody's lowered its outlook to "Stable" from "Positive" due to the company's announcement to accelerate its shares repurchase program. On January 12, 2007, Standard & Poor's Rating Services ("S&P") raised its corporate credit and senior unsecured debt ratings of Agilent to "BBB-" from "BB+", with a "stable" ratings outlook. On March 29, 2007, Fitch Ratings initiated coverage of Agilent by assigning an issuer default rating of "BBB-" with "Stable" outlook.


