FILE:A/A-8K-20080514161139.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Item 2.02.         Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
The information in this Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto is furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
On May 14, 2008, Agilent Technologies, Inc. (the "Company") issued its press release announcing financial results for the second fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2008.  A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
We provide non-GAAP financial information in order to provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance and to enhance our investors' overall understanding of our core current financial performance and our prospects for the future.  We believe that our investors benefit from seeing our results "through the eyes" of management in addition to the GAAP presentation.  Management measures segment and enterprise performance using measures such as those that are disclosed in this release.  This information facilitates management's internal comparisons to the Company's historical operating results and comparisons to competitors' operating results.  Non-GAAP information allows for greater transparency to supplemental information used by management in its financial and operations decision making.  Historically, we have reported similar non-GAAP information to our investors and believe that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting.
 
This information is not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  It excludes items, such as restructuring and amortization, that may have a material effect on the Company's expenses and earnings per share calculated in accordance with GAAP.  Management monitors these items to ensure that expenses are in line with expectations and that our GAAP results are correctly stated but does not use them to measure the ongoing operating performance of the Company.  The non-GAAP information we provide may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
 
Additional explanation of non-GAAP information is provided in Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01.         Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following is furnished as an exhibit to this report and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended:
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  May 14, 2008

Exhibit 99.1
 
SANTA CLARA, Calif., May 14, 2008  Agilent Technologies Inc. (NYSE: A) today reported orders of $1.52 billion for the second fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2008, 9 percent above one year ago. Revenues during the quarter were $1.46 billion, 10 percent above last year. Second quarter GAAP net income was $173 million, or $0.47 per diluted share. Last year's second quarter GAAP net income was $123 million, or $0.30 per share.
 
Included in this quarter's GAAP income is $19 million of share-based compensation expense. Excluding this item and $5 million of other net income, Agilent reported second quarter adjusted net income of $187 million, or $0.51 per share. On a comparable basis, the company earned $176 million, or $0.43 per share, one year ago.
(1)
 
"Agilent had a solid fiscal second quarter, especially considering the difficult market conditions in much of the developed world," said Bill Sullivan, Agilent president and chief executive officer. "Revenues of $1.46 billion were up 10 percent from last year, at the high end of our expectations.
 
"Organic growth in the Americas was about 3 percent, and local currency revenues were about flat in Europe compared to last year.  Growth in Asia Pacific was very robust, however, with revenues up 16 percent from one year ago.
 
"Segment trends were very similar to the first quarter, with Bio-Analytical revenues up 20 percent, or 13 percent excluding acquisitions, with robust growth in both life sciences and chemical analysis markets.  Electronic Measurement revenues increased 5 percent, with good growth in communications test markets and modest growth in general purpose markets.
 
"Second quarter adjusted net income per share, at $0.51, was just above the top of our $0.46 - $0.50 guidance range, 19 percent ahead of one year ago."
Second quarter Return on Invested Capital was 26 percent, one point above last year.  Inventory Days-On-Hand was improved by 7 days from one year ago.  Cash generated from operations during the quarter was $325 million.  During the period, the company repurchased $263 million of its common stock.
(2)
 
Looking to the second half of fiscal 2008, Sullivan said the company's outlook was cautious but relatively unchanged.  "We continue to anticipate tough conditions in U.S. markets and mixed conditions in Europe and Japan," said Sullivan, "while Asian markets are expected to remain quite robust."
 
Given these trends, Sullivan said the company expected fiscal third quarter revenues in the range of $1.44 billion to $1.49 billion, up 5 percent to 9 percent from last year.  Third quarter adjusted net income per share is expected to be in the range of $0.52 to $0.56, 8 percent to 17 percent above one year ago.
(3)
 
For the fiscal fourth quarter, revenues are expected to be in the range of $1.53 billion to $1.59 billion, up 6 percent to 10 percent from last year. Fourth quarter adjusted net income per share is expected to be in the range of $0.62 to $0.66 per share, 17 percent to 25 percent above last year's comparable earnings.
(3)
 
For full fiscal year 2008, revenues are expected to be in the range of $5.82 billion to $5.93 billion, up 7 percent to 9 percent from 2007.  Fiscal 2008 adjusted net income per share is expected to be in the range of $2.07 to $2.15 per share, 14 percent to 18 percent above 2007 results.
(3)
 
Segment Results
 
Bio-Analytical Measurement
($ millions except where noted)
 
Bio-Analytical Measurement orders were up 21 percent during the second quarter from one year ago, the eighth consecutive double-digit advance, and up 14 percent excluding the impact of the Stratagene and Velocity 11 acquisitions. Revenue of $556 million was up 20 percent from last year, and up 13 percent on an organic basis.  Revenues were up double-digit percentages in both Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis, and in all geographic regions.  Asia was particularly strong, up 32 percent from one year ago.
 
Life Sciences revenue of $259 million was up 33 percent from one year ago, and up 16 percent organically.  Pharma and Biotech markets were up 24 percent, or 11 percent excluding acquisitions, with modest growth in the U.S. and Europe and a strong performance from Asia.  Sales to the academic and government markets jumped 74 percent above last year, and were up 36 percent organically. Chemical Analysis revenue of $297 million was up 11 percent from last year, with weakness in semiconductor-related materials science markets tempering what otherwise would have been 16 percent growth in Chemical Analysis revenues.  Demand from petrochemicals was very strong, up 27 percent, and food safety was 19 percent ahead of one year ago.
 
 dropped 5 points to 23 percent, with all of the decline due to acquisition-related costs and increased invested capital.
Segment income from operations of $92 million was $16 million above last year on a $93 million increase in revenues.  Adjusting for the impact of acquisitions, the segment generated a $21 million improvement in income on a $60 million increase in revenues.  Operating margins were about unchanged from last year, at 17 percent. Segment Return On Invested Capital
(2)
 
Electronic Measurement
($ millions except where noted)
 
Second quarter Electronic Measurement orders of $928 million were 2 percent above last year. Revenues of $900 million were up 5 percent, with the Americas and Europe both up 1 percent and Asia 11 percent ahead of one year ago. General Purpose Test revenues were 2 percent above last year, with sustained strength in aerospace / defense and moderate growth in electronic manufacturing partially offset by continued weakness in semiconductors.  Communications Test revenues were up 11 percent, with sustained strength in R&D markets for LTE and WiMAX(tm) applications and a continuing rebound in handset manufacturing test. Broadband R&D was also strong, while network monitoring stabilized after several quarters of decline.
 
 to improve 4 points to 28 percent.
Second quarter segment income from operations of $140 million was up $19 million from last year on a $43 million increase in revenues.  Gross margins were a half point below last year but tight control of operating expenses produced an operating margin 1  points above one year ago.  Higher profitability and aggressive asset management enabled segment ROIC
(2)
 
About Agilent Technologies
 
(NYSE: A) is the world's premier measurement company and a technology leader in communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis. The company's 19,000 employees serve customers in more than 110 countries. Agilent had net revenues of $5.4 billion in fiscal 2007. Information about Agilent is available on the Web at www.agilent.com.
Agilent Technologies Inc.
 
Agilent's management will present more details on its second quarter FY2008 financial results on a conference call with investors beginning today at 1:30 p.m. (Pacific). This event will be webcast live in listen-only mode. Listeners may log on at www.investor.agilent.com and select "Q2 2008 Agilent Technologies Inc. Earnings Conference Call" in the "News & Events  Calendar of Events" section. The webcast will remain available on the company's Web site for 90 days.
A telephone replay of the conference call will be available from 3:30 p.m. (Pacific) today through May 21, 2008. The replay number is +1 888 286-8010 or international callers may dial +1 617-801-6888. The passcode is 27291806.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is subject to the safe harbors created therein. The forward-looking statements contained herein include, but are not limited to, information regarding Agilent's future revenues, earnings and profitability; the pace of new product introductions and future demand for the Company's products and services; and guidance for the third and fourth quarters and for the full fiscal year 2008. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause Agilent's results to differ materially from management's current expectations. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, unforeseen changes in the strength of our customers' businesses, and unforeseen changes in the demand for current and new products and technologies.
 
In addition, other risks that Agilent faces in running its operations include the ability to execute successfully through business cycles while it continues to implement cost reductions; the ability to meet and achieve the benefits of its cost-reduction goals and otherwise successfully adapt its cost structures to continuing changes in business conditions; ongoing competitive, pricing and gross-margin pressures; the risk that our cost-cutting initiatives will impair our ability to develop products and remain competitive and to operate effectively; the impact of geopolitical uncertainties on our operations, our markets and our ability to conduct business; the ability to improve asset performance to adapt to changes in demand; the ability to successfully introduce new products at the right time, price and mix; and other risks detailed in Agilent's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended Jan. 31, 2008. Forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of Agilent's management and on currently available information. Agilent undertakes no responsibility to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.
 Adjusted net income and adjusted net income per share are non-GAAP measures. Each of these measures is defined to exclude primarily the impacts of restructuring and asset impairment charges, business separation costs, non-cash share-based compensation, intangible amortization as well as gains and losses from the sale of investments and disposals of businesses net of their tax effects. A reconciliation between adjusted net income and GAAP net income is set forth on page 5 of the attached tables along with additional information regarding the use of this non-GAAP measure.
(1)
 
 Return On Invested Capital is a non-GAAP measure and is defined as income (loss) from operations less other (income) expense and taxes, annualized, divided by the average of the two most recent quarter-end balances of assets less net current liabilities. The reconciliation of ROIC can be found on page 6 of the attached tables, along with additional information regarding the use of this non-GAAP measure.
(2)
 
 Adjusted net income per share as projected for Q308, Q408 and full year 2008 is a non-GAAP measure which excludes primarily the impacts of future restructuring and asset impairment charges, non-cash share-based compensation, and intangibles amortization. Most of these excluded amounts pertain to events that have not yet occurred and are not currently possible to estimate with a reasonable degree of accuracy. Therefore, no reconciliation to GAAP amounts has been provided. Future amortization of intangibles is expected to be approximately $13 million per quarter.
(3)
 
 "WiMAX," "Fixed WiMAX," "Mobile WiMAX," "WiMAX Forum," the WiMAX Forum logo, "WiMAX Forum Certified," and the WiMAX Forum Certified logo are trademarks of the WiMAX Forum. All other trademarks are the properties of their respective owners.
 
Income from operations for the second quarter of fiscal years 2008 and 2007 include pre-tax share-based compensation expense
under SFAS No. 123(R) of $19 million and $40 million, respectively.
 
The preliminary income statement is estimated based on our current information.
Income from operations for the first six months of fiscal years 2008 and 2007 include pre-tax share-based compensation expense
under SFAS No. 123(R) of $49 million and $76 million, respectively.
The preliminary income statement is estimated based on our current information.
 
The preliminary balance sheet is estimated based on our current information.
 
 
The preliminary cash flow statement is estimated based on our current information.
 
We provide adjusted net income and adjusted net income per share amounts in order to provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance and our prospects for the future. These supplemental measures exclude, among other things, expenses related to share-based compensation, charges related to the amortization of intangibles, the impact of restructuring charges and the sale of our businesses. Some of the exclusions, such as impairments, may be beyond the control of management. Further, some may be less predictable than revenue derived from our core businesses (the day to day business of selling our products and services). These reasons provide the basis for management's belief that the measures are useful.
 
Our management uses non-GAAP measures to evaluate the performance of our core businesses, to estimate future core performance and to compensate employees. Since management finds this measure to be useful, we believe that our investors benefit from seeing our results "through the eyes" of management in addition to seeing our GAAP results. This information facilitates our management's internal comparisons to our historical operating results as well as to the operating results of our competitors.
 
Our management recognizes that items such as share-based compensation expenses, amortization of intangibles and restructuring charges can have a material impact on our cash flows and/or our net income. Our GAAP financial statements including our statement of cash flows portray those effects. Although we believe it is useful for investors to see core performance free of special items, investors should understand that the excluded items are actual expenses that may impact the cash available to us for other uses. To gain a complete picture of all effects on the Company's profit and loss from any and all events, management does (and investors should) rely upon the GAAP income statement. The non-GAAP numbers focus instead upon the core business of the company, which is only a subset, albeit a critical one, of the Company's performance.
 
Readers are reminded that non-GAAP numbers are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. They should be read in conjunction with the GAAP financial measures. It should be noted as well that our non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
 
The preliminary adjusted net income and diluted EPS reconciliation is estimated based on our current information.
 
Historical amounts are reclassified to conform with current period presentation
 
ROIC calculation:(annualized current quarter segment return)/(average of the two most recent quarter-end
balances of Segment Invested Capital)
 
(a)  Agilent return is equal to adjusted net income from operations of $187 million minus net interest income after tax of $2 million.
Please see "Adjusted Net Income and EPS Reconciliations" for a reconciliation of adjusted net income from operations to GAAP income from operations.
(b) Segment assets consist of inventory, accounts receivable, property plant and equipment, gross goodwill and other intangibles, deferred taxes and allocated corporate assets.
(c)  Includes accounts payable, employee compensation and benefits, other accrued liabilities and allocated corporate liabilities.
 
Return on invested capital (ROIC) is a non-GAAP measure that management believes provides useful supplemental information for management and the investor.  ROIC is a tool by which we track how much value we are creating for our shareholders.  Management uses ROIC as a performance measure for our businesses, and our senior managers' compensation is linked to ROIC improvements as well as other performance criteria.  We believe that ROIC provides our management with a means to analyze and improve their business, measuring segment profitability in relation to net asset investments.  We acknowledge that ROIC may not be calculated the same way by every company.  We compensate for this limitation by monitoring and providing to the reader a full GAAP income statement and balance sheet.
 
Readers are reminded that non-GAAP numbers are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures.  They should be read in conjunction with the GAAP financial measures.  It should be noted as well that our non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
 
The preliminary reconciliation of ROIC is estimated based on our current information.


