FILE:A/A-8K-20080410161923.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Item 1.01.  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
Amended and Restated Indemnification Agreement
 
The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of Agilent Technologies, Inc. (the "Company"), approved a new form of Indemnification Agreement (the "New Indemnification Agreement") to be entered into with its directors, Section 16 executive officers and other Board-elected officers of the Company.   Effective April 9, 2008, copies of the New Indemnification Agreement were executed on behalf of the Company and were distributed to the eligible individuals for counter-signature.
 
For the current directors and executive officers of the Company who had entered into the Company's previous form of indemnification agreement, the entry into the New Indemnification Agreement will amend and restate the previous agreement.  As is the case with the previous form of indemnification agreement, the New Indemnification Agreement commits the Company to indemnify the indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted under Delaware law.
 
The New Indemnification Agreement incorporates changes in the General Corporation Law of Delaware providing that the Company's obligation to make advance payments of expenses to indemnitees is subject to the Company's receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the indemnitee to repay the amounts advanced, if and when and to the extent such indemnitee would not be permitted to be so indemnified under applicable law.  The New Indemnification Agreement also limits the recovery of expenses by indemnitees to those that are "actually and reasonably" incurred.
 
The foregoing summary of the New Indemnification Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 10.01 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 5.02.  Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
Amended and Restated Change of Control Severance Agreements
 
Upon a recommendation of the Compensation Committee, the Company's Board of Directors (the "Board") amended and restated the forms of Change of Control Severance Agreements to be entered into by the Company's Chief Executive Officer (the "CEO Agreement"), Section 16 Officers (the "Section 16 Agreement") and specified non-Section 16 executives of the Company (the "Executive Agreement" and collectively with the CEO Agreement and Section 16 Agreement, the "Amended and Restated Change of Control Agreements").  Effective April 9, 2008, the Amended and Restated Change of Control Agreements were executed on behalf of the Company and were distributed to the eligible individuals for counter-signature.
 
The conditions under which severance benefits become payable under the Amended and Restated Change of Control Agreements are substantially the same as those under the prior change of control severance agreements.  In general, two conditions must be met:  (i) a change of control, as defined in the agreement, must have occurred and (ii)  (a) the executive's employment is  involuntarily terminated without cause, (b) the executive resigns due to an event constituting a constructive termination of employment, or (c) prior to a change of control the executive is terminated without cause, or resigns because of a Company action constituting constructive termination of employment, which termination or Company action was at the request of an acquiror of the Company. The involuntary or voluntary termination in (a) and (b) must
occur within the period beginning 3 months before and ending 24 months following a change of control of the Company.
 
The severance benefits under the Amended and Restated Change of Control Agreements are substantially the same as those under the prior change of control severance agreements and consist of the following: (i) a severance payment for the CEO, Section 16 Officers and other officers equal to three times, two times and one time, respectively, of such officer's annual base salary and target bonus; (ii) a lump sum cash payment in lieu of continued COBRA benefits; (iii) vesting of all outstanding non-performance-based stock options and restricted stock; and (iv) the prorated amount, if any, of any amount otherwise payable based on actual performance under any applicable variable pay programs.
 
Change of Control Agreements include  eliminating the non-compete provision, allowing the Company to make non-material and non-adverse changes to the agreements without the executive's consent, providing an excise tax gross-up and addressing other potential tax consequences under the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
Additional key amendments to the Amended and Restated
 
The foregoing summary of the Amended and Restated Change of Control Agreements is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibits 10.2, 10.3 and 10.4 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
Date:  April 10, 2008
 

< p style="margin:0in 0in .0001pt;text-align:center;">
EXHIBIT 10.1
 
[FORM OF]
AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
AMENDED AND RESTATED
INDEMNIFICATION AGREEMENT
 
This Indemnification Agreement ("Agreement") is entered into as of April       , 2008 by and between Agilent Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "") and                                   ("").
Company
Indemnitee
 
RECITALS
 
A.
   
The Company and Indemnitee recognize the continued difficulty in obtaining liability insurance for its directors, officers, employees, agents and fiduciaries, the significant increases in the cost of such insurance and the general reductions in the coverage of such insurance.
 
B.
   
The Company and Indemnitee further recognize the substantial increase in corporate litigation in general, subjecting directors, officers, employees, agents and fiduciaries to expensive litigation risks at the same time as the availability and coverage of liability insurance has been severely limited.
 
C.
   
Indemnitee does not regard the current protection available as adequate under the present circumstances, and Indemnitee and other directors, officers, employees, agents and fiduciaries of the Company may not be willing to continue to serve in such capacities without additional protection.
 
D.
   
The Company desires to attract and retain the services of highly qualified individuals, such as Indemnitee, to serve the Company and, in part, in order to induce Indemnitee to continue to provide services to the Company, wishes to provide for the indemnification and advancing of expenses to Indemnitee to the maximum extent permitted by law.
 
E.
    
In view of the considerations set forth above, the Company desires that Indemnitee be indemnified by the Company as set forth herein.
 
NOW, THEREFORE
, the Company and Indemnitee hereby agree as follows:
 
1.
              
Indemnification
.
 
(a)
      
Indemnification of Expenses
.  The Company shall indemnify Indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted by law if Indemnitee was or is or becomes a party to or witness or other participant in, or is threatened to be made a party to or witness or other participant in, any threatened, pending or completed action, suit, proceeding or alternative dispute resolution mechanism, or any hearing, inquiry or investigation that
 
1
 
Indemnitee in good faith believes might lead to the institution of any such action, suit, proceeding or alternative dispute resolution mechanism, whether civil, criminal, administrative, investigative or other (hereinafter a "Claim") by reason of (or arising in part out of) any event or occurrence related to the fact that Indemnitee is or was a director, officer, employee, agent or fiduciary of the Company, or any subsidiary of the Company, or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, employee, agent or fiduciary of another corporation, limited liability company, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, or by reason of any action or inaction on the part of Indemnitee while serving in such capacit y (hereinafter an "Indemnifiable Event") against any and all expenses (including attorneys' fees and all other costs, expenses and obligations actually and reasonably incurred by Indemnitee on his behalf in connection with investigating, defending, being a witness in or participating in (including on appeal), or preparing to defend, be a witness in or participate in, any such action, suit, proceeding, alternative dispute resolution mechanism, hearing, inquiry or investigation), judgments, fines, penalties and amounts paid in settlement (if such settlement is approved in advance by the Company, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld) of such Claim and any federal, state, local or foreign taxes imposed on Indemnitee as a result of the actual or deemed receipt of any payments under this Agreement (collectively, hereinafter "Expenses"), including all interest, assessments and other charges paid or payable in connection with or in respect of such Expenses. Such payment of Expen ses shall be made by the Company as soon as practicable but in any event no later than five days after written demand by Indemnitee therefore is presented to the Company.
 
(b)
  
Reviewing Party
.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, (i) the obligations of the Company under Section 1(a) shall be subject to the condition that the Reviewing Party (as described in Section 10(e) hereof) shall not have determined (in a written opinion, in any case in which the Independent Legal Counsel referred to in Section 1(c) hereof is involved) that Indemnitee would not be permitte d to be indemnified under applicable law, and (ii) the obligation of the Company to make an advance payment of Expenses to Indemnitee pursuant to Section 2(a) (an "Expense Advance") shall be subject to the Company's  receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the Indemnitee to repay such amount advanced, if, when and to the extent that the Reviewing Party determines that Indemnitee would not be permitted to be so indemnified under applicable law, the Company shall be entitled to be reimbursed by Indemnitee (who hereby agrees to reimburse the Company) for all such amounts theretofore paid; provided, however, that if Indemnitee has commenced or thereafter commences legal proceedings in a court of competent jurisdiction to secure a determination that Indemnitee should be indemnified under applicable law, any determination made by the Reviewing Party that Indemnitee would not be permitted to be indemnified under applicable law shall not be binding and Indemnitee shall not be required to reimburse the Company for any Expense Advance until a final judicial determination is made with respect thereto (as to which all rights of appeal therefrom have been exhausted or lapsed).  Indemnitees' obligation to reimburse the Company for any Expense Advance shall be unsecured and no interest shall be charged thereon.  If there has not been a Change in Control (as defined in Section 10(c) hereof), the Reviewing Party shall be selected by the Board of Directors, and if there has been such a Change in Control (other than a Change in Control which has been approved
 
2
 
by a majority of the Company's Board of Directors who were directors immediately prior to such Change in Control), the Reviewing Party shall be the Independent Legal Counsel referred to in Section 1(c) hereof. If there has been no determination by the Reviewing Party or if the Reviewing Party determines that Indemnitee substantively would not be permitted to be indemnified in whole or in part under applicable law, Indemnitee shall have the right to commence litigation seeking an initial determination by the court or challenging any such determination by the Reviewing Party or any aspect thereof, including the legal or factual bases therefor, and the Company hereby consents to service of process and to appear in any such proceeding. An y determination by the Reviewing Party otherwise shall be conclusive and binding on the Company and Indemnitee.
 
(c)
  
Change in Control
.  The Company agrees that if there is a Change in Control of the Company (other than a Change in Control which has been approved by a majority of the Company's Board of Directors who were directors immediately prior to such Change in Control) then, with respect to all matters thereafter arising concerning the rights of Indemnitees to payments of Expenses and Expense Advances under this Agreement or any other agreement or under the Company's Certifi cate of Incorporation or Bylaws as now or hereafter in effect, Independent Legal Counsel (as defined in Section 10(d) hereof) shall be selected  by Indemnitee and approved by the Company (which approval shall not beunreasonably withheld).  Such counsel, among other things, shall render its written opinion to the Company and Indemnitee as to whether and to what extent Indemnitee would be permitted to be indemnified under applicable law and the Company agrees to abide by such opinion.  The Company agrees to pay the reasonable fees of the Independent Legal Counsel referred to above and to fully indemnify such counsel against any and all expenses (including attorneys' fees), claims, liabilities and damages arising out of or relating to this Agreement or its engagement pursuant hereto.
 
(d)
  
Mandatory Payment of Expenses
.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement other than Section 9 hereof, to the extent that Indemnitee has been successful on the merits or otherwise, including, without limitation, the dismissal of an action without prejudice, in defense of any action, suit, proceeding, inquiry or investigation referred to in Section (1)(a) hereof or in the defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, in whole or in part, Indemnitee shall be indemnified against all Expenses actually and reasonably incurred by Indemnitee in connection therewith.
 
2.
              
Expenses; Indemnification Procedure
.
 
(a)
  
Advancement of Expenses
.  The Company shall advance all Expenses incurred by Indemnitee upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the Indemnitee to repay such amounts advanced to the extent required by applicable law.  The advanc es to be made hereunder shall be paid by the Company to Indemnitee as soon as practicable but in any event no later than five days after written demand by Indemnitee therefor to the Company.
 
(b)
  
Notice/Cooperation by Indemnitee
.  Indemnitee shall, as a condition precedent to Indemnitees' right to be indemnified under this Agreement, give the
 
3
 
Company notice in writing as soon as practicable of any Claim made against Indemnitee for which indemnification will or could be sought under this Agreement.  Notice to the Company shall be directed to the Chief Executive Officer of the Company at the address shown on the signature page of this Agreement (or such other address as the Company shall designate in writing to Indemnitee). In addition, Indemnitee shall give the Company such information and cooperation as it may reasonably require and as shall be within Indemnitees' power.
 
(c)
  
No Presumptions; Burden of Proof
.  For purposes of this Agreement,  to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law, the termination of any Claim by judgment, order, settlement (whether with or without court approval) or conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere, or its equivalent, shall not create a presumption that Indemnitee did not meet any particular standard of conduct or have any particular belief or that a court has determined that indemnification is not permitted by applicable law.  In addition, neither the failure of the Reviewing Party to have made a determination as to whether Indemnitee has met any particular standard of conduct or had any particular belief, nor an actual determination by the Reviewing Party that Indemnitee has not met such standard of condu ct or did not have such belief, prior to the commencement of legal proceedings by Indemnitee to secure a judicial determination that Indemnitee should be indemnified under applicable law, shall be a defense to Indemnitee's claim or create a presumption that Indemnitee has not met any particular standard of conduct or did not have any particular belief.  In connection with any determination by the Reviewing Party or otherwise as to whether Indemnitee is entitled to be indemnified hereunder, the burden of proof shall be on the Company to establish that Indemnitee is not so entitled.
 
(d)
  
Notice to Insurers
.  If, at the time of the receipt by the Company of a notice of a Claim pursuant to Section 2(b) hereof, the Company has liability insurance in effect which may cover such Claim, the Company shall give prompt notice of the commencement of such Claim to the insurers in accordance with the procedures set forth in the respective policies. The Company shall thereafter take all necessary or desirable action to cause such insurers to pay, on behalf of Indemnitee, all amounts payable as a result of such action, suit, proceeding, inquiry or investigation in accordance with the terms of such policies.
 
(e)
  
Sel ection of Counsel
.  In the event the Company shall be obligated hereunder to pay the Expenses of any Claim, the Company shall be entitled to assume the defense of such Claim with counsel approved by Indemnitee, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld, upon the delivery to Indemnitee of written notice of its election so to do. After delivery of such notice, approval of such counsel by Indemnitee and the retention of such counsel by the Company, the Company will not be liable to Indemnitee under this Agreement for any fees of counsel subsequently incurred by Indemnitee with respect to the same Claim; provided that, (i) Indemnitee shall have the right to employ Indemnitees' counsel in any such Claim at Indemnitee expense and (ii) if (A) the employment of counsel by Indemnitee has been previously authorized by the Company, (B) Indemnitee shall have reasonably concluded that there is a conflict of interest between the Company and Inde mnitee in the conduct of any such defense, or (C) the
 
4
 
Company shall not continue to retain such counsel to defend such Claim, then the fees and expenses of Indemnitee counsel shall be at the expense of the Company. The Company shall have the right to conduct such defense as it sees fit in its sole discretion, including the right to settle any claim against Indemnitee without the consent of the Indemnitee.
 
3.
            ;   
Additional Indemnification Rights; Nonexclusivity
.
 
(a)
  
Scope
.  The Company hereby agrees to indemnify Indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted by law, notwithstanding that such indemnification is not specifically authorized by the other provisions of this Agreement, the Company's Certificate of Incorporation, the Company's Bylaws or by statute.  In the event of any change after the date of this Agreement in any applicable law, statute or rule which expands the r ight of a Delaware corporation to indemnify a member of its Board of Directors or an officer, employee, agent or fiduciary, it is the intent of the parties hereto that Indemnitee shall enjoy by this Agreement the greater benefits afforded by such change.  In the event of any change in any applicable law, statute or rule which narrows the right of a Delaware corporation to indemnify a member of its Board of Directors or an officer, employee, agent or fiduciary, such change, to the extent not otherwise required by such law, statute or rule to be applied to this Agreement, shall have no effect on this Agreement or the parties' rights and obligations hereunder except as set forth in Section 8(a) hereof.
 
(b)
  
Nonexclusivity
.  The indemnification provided by this Agreement shall be in addition to any rights to which Indemnitee may be entitled under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation, its Bylaws, any agreement, any vote of stockholders or disinterested directors, the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or otherwise.  The indemnification provided under this Agreement shall continue as to Indemnitee for any action Indemnitee took or did not take while serving in an indemnified capacity even though Indemnitee may have ceased to serve in such capacity.
 
4.
    
No Duplication of Payments
.  The Company shall not be liable under this Agreement to make any payment in connection with any Claim made against Indemnitee to the extent Indemnitee has otherwise actually received payment (under any insurance policy, Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaw or otherwise) of the amounts otherwise indemnifiable or subject to a claim for advancement hereunder.
 
5.
    
Partial Indemnification
.  If Indemnitee is entit led under any provision of this Agreement to indemnification by the Company for some or a portion of Expenses incurred in connection with any Claim, but not, however, for all of the total amount thereof, the Company shall nevertheless indemnify Indemnitee for the portion of such Expenses to which Indemnitee are entitled.
 
6.
    
Mutual Acknowledgement
.  Both the Company and Indemnitee acknowledge that in certain instances, Federal law or applicable public policy may prohibit the Company from indemnifying its directors, officers, employees, agents or fiduciaries
 
5
 
under this Agreement or otherwise.  Indemnitee understands and acknowledges that the Company has undertaken or may be required in the future to undertake with the Securities and Exchange Commission to submit the question of indemnification to a court in certain circumstances for a determination of the Company's right under public policy to indemnify Indemnitee.
 
7.
    
Liability Insurance
.  To the extent the Company maintains liability insurance applicable to directors, officers, employees, agents or fiduciaries, Indemnitee shall be covered by such policies in such a manner as to provide Indemnitee the same rights and benefits as are accorded to the most favorably insured of the Company's directors, if Indemnitee is a director; or of the Company's officers, if Indemnitee is not a director of the Company but is an officer; or of the Company's key employees, agents or fiduciaries, if Indemnitee is not an officer or director but is a key employee, agent or fiduciary.
 
8.
   ;  
Exceptions
.  Any other provision herein to the contrary notwithstanding, the Company shall not be obligated pursuant to the terms of this Agreement :
 
(a)
  
Excluded Action or Omissions
. (i) To indemnify Indemnitee for Indemnitee's acts, omissions or transactions from which Indemnitee or the Indemnitee may not be indemnified under applicable law; or (ii) to indemnify Indemnity for Indemnity's intentional acts or transactions in violation of the Company's policies;
 
(b)
  
Claims Initiated by Indemnitee
. To indemnify or advance expenses to Indemnitee with respect to Claims initiated or brought voluntarily by Indemnitee and not by way of defense, except (i) with respect to actions or proceedings brought to establish or enforce a right to indemnification under this Agreement or any other agreement or insurance policy or under the Company's Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws now or hereafter in effect relating to Claims for Indemnifiable Events, but only to the event Indemnitee is successful on the underlying claim for such indemnification, advance expense pay ment or insurance recovery, as the case may be, (ii) in specific cases if the Board of Directors has approved the initiation or bringing of such Claim, or (iii) as otherwise required under Section 145 of the Delaware General Corporation Law,
 
(c)
  
Lack of Good Faith
. To indemnify Indemnitee for any expenses incurred by Indemnitee with respect to any proceeding instituted by Indemnitee to enforce or interpret this Agreement, if a court of competent jurisdiction determines that each of the material assertions made by Indemnitee in such proceeding was not made in good faith or was fri volous; or
 
(d)
  
Claims Under Section 16(b)
. To indemnify Indemnitee for expenses and the payment of profits arising from the purchase and sale by Indemnitee of securities in violation of Section 16(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or any similar successor statute.
 
9.
    
Period of Limitations
.  No legal action shall be brought and no cause of action shall be asserted by or in the right of the Company against Indemnitee, Indemnitee's
 
6
 
estate, spouse, heirs, executors or personal or legal representatives after the expiration of two years from the date of accrual of such cause of action, and any claim or cause of action of the Company shall be extinguished and deemed released unless asserted by the timely filing of a legal action within such two-year period; provided, however, that if any shorter period of limitations is otherwise applicable to any such cause of action, such shorter period shall govern.
 
10.
  
Construction of Certain Phrases
.
 
(a)
  
For purposes of this Agreement, references to the "Company" shall include, in addition to the resulting corporation, any constituent corporation (including any constituent of a constituent) absorbed in a consolidation or merger which, if its separate existence had continued, would have had power and authority to indemnify its directors, officers, employees, agents or fiduciaries, so that if Indemnitee is or was a director, officer, employee, agent or fiduciary of such constituent corporation, or is or was serving at the request of such constituent corporation as a director, officer, employee, agent or fiduciary of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, employee benefit plan, trust or other enterprise, Indemnitee shall stand in the same position under the provisions of this Agreement with respect to the resulting or surviving corporation as Indemnitee would have with respect to such constituent corporation if its separate existence had continued.
 
(b)
  
For purposes of this Agreement, references to "other enterprises" shall include employee benefit plans; references to "fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on Indemnitee with respect to an employee benefit plan; and references to "serving at the request of the Company" shall include any service as a director, officer, employee, agent or fiduciary of the Company which imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director, officer, employee, agent or fiduciary with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants or its beneficiaries; and if Indemnitee acted in good faith and in a manner Indemnitee reasonably believed to be in the interest of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan, Indemnitee shall be deemed to have acted in a manner "not opposed to the best interests of the Company" as referred to in this Agreement.
 
(c)
  
For purposes of this Agreement a "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred if (i) any "person" (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended), other than a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or a corporation owned directly or indirectly by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company, (A) who is or becomes the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 10% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding Voting Securities, increases his beneficial ownership of such securities by 5% or more over the percentage so owned by such person, or (B) becomes the "beneficial owner" (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under said Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing more than 20% of the total voting power represented by the Company's then outstanding
 
7
 
Voting Securities, (ii) during any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Board of Directors of the Company and any new director whose election by the Board of Directors or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute a majority thereof, or (iii) the stockholders of the Company approve a merger or consolidation of the Company with any other corporation other than a merger or consolidation which would result in the Voting Secu rities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into Voting Securities of the surviving entity) at least 80% of the total voting power represented by the Voting Securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation, or the stockholders of the Company approve a plan of complete liquidation of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of (in one transaction or a series of transactions) all or substantially all of the Company's assets.
 
(d)
  
For purposes of this A greement, "Independent Legal Counsel" shall mean an attorney or firm of attorneys, selected in accordance with the provisions of Section 1(c) hereof, who shall not have otherwise performed services for the Company or Indemnitee within the last three years (other than with respect to matters concerning the rights of Indemnitee under this Agreement, or of other indemnitees under similar indemnity agreements).
 
(e)
  
For purposes of this Agreement, a "Reviewing Party" shall mean, subject to the requirements of applicable law any appropriate person or body consisting of a member or members of the Company's Bo ard of Directors or any other person or body appointed by the Board of Directors who is not a party to the particular Claim for which Indemnitee are seeking indemnification, or Independent Legal Counsel.
 
(f)
   
For purposes of this Agreement, "Voting Securities" shall mean any securities of the Company that vote generally in the election of directors.
 
11.
  
Counterparts
.  This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall constitute an original.
 
12.
  
Binding Effect; Successors and Assigns
.  This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the parties  hereto and their respective successors, assigns, including any direct or indirect successor by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise to all or substantially all of th e business and/or assets of the Company, spouses, heirs, and personal and legal representatives. The Company shall require and cause any successor (whether direct or indirect by purchase, merger, consolidation or otherwise) to all, substantially all, or a substantial part, of the business and/or assets of the Company, by written agreement in form and substance satisfactory to Indemnitee, expressly to assume and agree to perform this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent that the Company would be required to perform if no such
 
8
 
succession had taken place. This Agreement shall continue in effect with respect to Claims relating to Indemnifiable Events regardless of whether Indemnitee continues to serve as a director, officer, employee, agent or fiduciary of the Company or of any other enterprise at the Company's request.
 
13.
  
Attorneys' Fees
.  In the event that any action is instituted by Indemnitee under this Agreement or under any liability insurance policies maintained by the Company to enforce or interpret any of the terms hereof or thereof, Indemnitee shall be entitled to be paid all Expenses incurred by Indemnitee with respect to such action, , and shall be entitled to the advancement of Expenses with respect to such action to the extent Indemnitee is successful on the underlying claim for such indemnification, advance expense payment or insurance recovery, as the  case may be; unless, as a part of such action, a court of competent jurisdiction over such action determines that each of the material assertions made by Indemnitee as a basis for such action was not made in good faith or was frivolous. In the event of an action instituted by or in the name of the Company under this Agreement to enforce or interpret any of the terms of this Agreement, Indemnitee shall be entitled to be paid all Expenses incurred by Indemnitee in defense of such action (including costs and expenses incurred with respect to Indemnitee counterclaims and cross-claims made in such action), and shall be entitled to the advancement of Expenses with respect to such action, unless, as a part of such action, a court having jurisdiction over such action determines that each of Indemnitee material defenses to such action was made in bad faith or was frivolous.
 
14.
  
Notice
.  All notices and other communications required or permitted hereunder shall be in writing, shall be effective when given, and shall in any event be deemed to be given (a) five (5)  ;days after deposit with the U.S. Postal Service or other applicable postal service, if delivered by first class mail, postage prepaid, (b) upon delivery, if delivered by hand, (c) one business day after the business day of deposit with Federal Express or similar overnight courier, freight prepaid, or (d) one day after the business day of delivery by facsimile transmission, if delivered by facsimile transmission, with copy by first class mail, postage prepaid, and shall be addressed if to Indemnitee, at the Indemnitee address as set forth beneath Indemnitee signatures to this Agreement and if to the Company at the address of its principal corporate offices (attention: Secretary) or at such other address as such party may designate by ten days' advance written notice to the other party hereto.
 
15.
  
Consent to Jurisdiction
.  The Company and Indemnitee each hereby irrevocably consent to the jurisdiction of the courts of the State of Delaware for all purposes in connection with any action or proceeding which arises out of or relates to this Agreement and agree that any action instituted under this  Agreement shall be commenced, prosecuted and continued only in the Court of Chancery of the State of Delaware in and for New Castle County, which shall be the exclusive and only proper forum for adjudicating such a claim.
 
16.
  
Severability
.  The provisions of this Agreement shall be severable in the event that any of the provisions hereof (including any provision within a single section, paragraph or sentence) are held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, void or
 
9
 
otherwise unenforceable, and the remaining provisions shall remain enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law.  Furthermore, to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Agreement (including, without limitations, each portion of this Agreement containing any provision held to be invalid, void or otherwise unenforceable, that is not itself invalid, void or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
 
17.
  
Choice of Law
.  This Agreement shall be governed by and its provisions construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware, as applied to contracts between Delaware residents, entered into and to be performed entirely within the State of Delaware, without regard to the conflict of laws principles thereof.
 
18.
  
Subrogation
.  In the event of payment under this Agreement, the Company shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all of the rights of recovery of Indemnitee who shall execute all documents required and shall do all acts that may be necessary to secure such rights and to enable the Company effectively to bring suit to enforce such rights.
 
19.
  
Amendment and Termination
.  No amendment, modification, termination or cancellation of this Agreement shall be effective unless it is in writing signed by both the parties hereto. No waiver of any of the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed or shall constitute a waiver of any other provisions hereof (w hether or not similar) nor shall such waiver constitute a continuing waiver.
 
20.
  
Integration and Entire Agreement
.  This Agreement sets forth the  entire understanding between the parties hereto and supersedes and merges all previous written and oral negotiations, commitments, understandings and agreements relating to the subject matter hereof between the parties hereto.
 
21.
  
No Construction as Employment Agreement
.  Nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed as giving Indemnitee any right to be retained in the employ of the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
 
10
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
the parties hereto have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written.
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.2
 
[FORM OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AGREEMENT]
 
AMENDED & RESTATED
CHANGE OF CONTROL SEVERANCE AGREEMENT
 
This Change of Control Severance Agreement (the "Agreement") is entered into this          day of                         , 2008 (the "Effective Date") between                                ("Executive") and Agilent Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company").  This Agreement supersedes and replaces all prior agreements and understandings on the matters set forth herein, including but not limited to the Change of Control Severance Agreement dated                        , 200       (as further amended on                        , 2004 and on                        , 2005) between Executive and the Company.  This Agreement is intended to provide Executive with the compensation and benefits described herein upon the occurrence of specific events following a change of control of the ownership of the Company (defined as "Change of Control").
 
 
As is the case with most, if not all, publicly-traded businesses, it is expected that the Company from time to time may consider or may be presented with the need to consider the possibility of an acquisition by another company or other change in control of the ownership of the Company.  The Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") recognizes that such considerations can be a distraction to Executive and can cause the Executive to consider alternative employment opportunities or to be influenced by the impact of a possible change in control of the ownership of the Company on Executive's personal circumstances in evaluating such possibilities.  The Board has determined that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to assure that the Company will have the continued dedication and objectivity of Executive, notwithstanding the possibility, threat or occurrence of a Change of Control of the Company.
A.
           
 
The Board believes that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to provide Executive with an incentive to continue his or her employment and to motivate Executive to maximize the value of the Company upon a Change of Control for the benefit of its shareholders.
B.
           
 
The Board believes that it is important to provide Executive with certain benefits upon Executive's termination of employment in certain instances upon or following a Change of Control that provide Executive with enhanced financial security and incentive and encouragement to Executive to remain with the Company notwithstanding the possibility of a Change of Control.
C.
           
 
At the same time, the Board expects the Company to receive certain benefits in exchange for providing Executive with this measure of financial security and incentive under the Agreement.  Therefore, the Board believes that the Executive should provide various specific commitments which are intended to assure the Company that Executive will not direct
D.
           
 
Executive's skills, experience and knowledge to the detriment of the Company for a period not to exceed the period during which payments are being made to Executive under this Agreement.
 
Certain capitalized terms used in this Agreement are defined in Article VII.
E.
            
 
The Company and Executive hereby agree as follows:
 
ARTICLE I.
EMPLOYMENT BY THE COMPANY
 
Executive is currently employed as Chief Executive Officer of the Company.
1.1
         
 
Executive shall be entitled to the rights and benefits  of this Agreement and this Agreement may not be terminated, except as otherwise provided in Section 4.5, if Executive is the CEO of the Company on the date of the occurrence of any event set forth in Section 2.1(a) or Section 2.2(a) hereof (the "Section 1.2 Date.") The rights and obligations of the parties hereto contained in Articles III through VIII shall survive any termination for the longer of (i) thirty-six (36) months following a Termination Event (as hereinafter defined) (the "Term") or (ii) such longer period provided for in this Agreement.
1.2
         
 
The Company and Executive each agree and acknowledge that Executive is employed by the Company as an "at-will" employee and that either Executive or the Company has the right at any time to terminate or to change Executive's employment with the Company, including a change to a position that is no longer the Chief Executive Officer, with or without cause or advance notice, for any reason or for no reason.  The Company and Executive wish to set forth the compensation and benefits which Executive shall be entitled to receive in the event that Executive's employment with the Company terminates under the circumstances described in Article II of this Agreement.
1.3
         
 
The duties and obligations of the Company to Executive under this Agreement shall be in consideration for Executive's past services to the Company, Executive's continued employment with the Company, Executive's compliance with the obligations described in Section 4.2, and Executive's execution of the general waiver and release described in Section 4.3.  The Company and Executive agree that Executive's compliance with the obligations described in Section 4.2 and Executive's execution of the general waiver and release described in Section 4.3 are preconditions to Executive's entitlement to the receipt of benefits under this Agreement and that these benefits shall not be earned unless all such conditions have been satisfied through the scheduled date of payment.  The Company hereby declares that it has relied upon Executive's commitments under this Agreement to comply with the requirements of Article IV, and would not have been induced to enter into this Agreement or to execute this Agreement in the absence of such commitments.
1.4
         
 
ARTICLE II.
TERMINATION EVENTS
 
.
2.1
                              
Involuntary Termination Upon or Following Change of Control
 
In the event Executive's employment with the Company and its subsidiaries is involuntarily terminated at any time by the Company without Cause either (i) at the time of or within twenty-four (24) months following the occurrence of a Change of Control, (ii) within three (3) months prior to a Change of Control, whether or not such termination is at the request of an "Acquiror", or (iii) at any time prior to a Change of Control, if such termination is at the request of an Acquiror, then, upon such Change of Control,  such termination of employment will be a Termination Event and the Company shall pay Executive the compensation and benefits described in  and at the times provided under Article III.   For all purposes of this Agreement the term "Acquiror" is either a person or a member of a group of related persons representing such group that in either case obtains effective control of the Company in the transaction or a group of related transactions constituting the Change of Control.
(a)
                                 
 
In the event Executive's employment with the Company and its subsidiaries is either involuntarily terminated by the Company with Cause at any time, or is involuntarily terminated by the Company without Cause at any time other than under the circumstances described in Section 2.1(a), then such termination of employment will be a Termination Event, Executive will be entitled to receive any payments or benefits under the provisions of this Agreement, and the Company will cease paying compensation or providing benefits to Executive as of Executive's termination date.
(b)
                                
not
not
 
.
2.2
                              
Voluntary Termination Upon or Following Change of Control
 
Executive may voluntarily terminate his employment with the Company and its subsidiaries at any time.  In the event Executive voluntarily terminates his employment within three (3) months of the occurrence of an event constituting Good Reason and on account of an event constituting Good Reason, which event occurs either (i) at the time of or within twenty-four (24) months following the occurrence of a Change of Control, (ii) within three (3) months prior to a Change of Control, whether or not such termination is at the request of an "Acquiror", or (iii) at any time prior to a Change of Control, if such triggering event or Executive's termination is at the request of an Acquiror, then, upon such Change of Control,  such termination of employment will be a Termination Event and the Company shall pay Executive the compensation and benefits described in and at the times provided under Article III.
(a)
                                 
 
In the event (i) Executive voluntarily terminates his employment for any reason other than on account of an event constituting Good Reason under the circumstances described in Section 2.2(a), or (ii) Executive's employment terminates on account of either death or physical or mental disability, then such termination of employment will be a Termination Event, Executive will be entitled to receive any payments or benefits under the provisions of this Agreement, and the Company will cease paying compensation or providing benefits to Executive as of the Executive's termination date.
(b)
                                
not
not
 
ARTICLE III.
COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS PAYABLE
 
.  If a Termination Event occurs, Executive shall be entitled to receive the benefits described in this Agreement so long as Executive complies with the restrictions and limitations set forth in Article IV; provided, further, that the Executive must execute the employee Release (as described in Section 4.3) and the time period for revocation of such Release must have elapsed (an "Effective Release"), within sixty (60) days of the Termination Event, which Release shall remain in effect at the time that the benefits of this Article III are paid.  If a Termination Event does not occur, Executive shall not be entitled to receive any benefits described in this Agreement, except as otherwise specifically set forth herein.
3.1
         
Right to Benefits
 
.  Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, Executive shall receive three times the sum of Executive's Base Salary plus Target Bonus, less any applicable withholding of federal, state or local taxes.  Amounts to be paid under this section shall be paid in a lump sum no later than the later of thirty (30) days after the date of the Termination Event or the date of an Effective Release.
3.2
         
Salary Continuation
 
.
3.3
         
Health Insurance Coverage
 
Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, Executive shall be entitled to receive a payment equal to Eighty-Thousand U.S. Dollars ($80,000) (the "Health Expense Benefit").  The purpose of the Health Expense Benefit is to assist Executive with healthcare expenses, including additional health plan premium payments that may result from the occurrence of a Termination Event.  Amounts to be paid under this section shall be paid in a lump sum no later than the later of thirty (30) days after the date of the Termination Event or the date of an Effective Release.
 
Health Expense Benefit.  This Section 3.3 does not affect the rights of Executive or Executive's covered dependents under any applicable law with respect to health insurance continuation coverage.
This Section 3.3 provides only for the Company's payment of the
 
.  Executive's stock options which are outstanding as of the date of the Termination Event (the "Stock Options") shall become fully vested upon the occurrence of the Termination Event and exercisable so long as Executive complies with the restrictions and limitations set forth in Article IV.  The maximum period of time during which the Stock Options shall remain exercisable, and all other terms and conditions of the Stock Options, shall be as specified in the relevant Stock Option agreements and relevant stock plans under which the Stock Option were granted.  The term "Stock Options" shall not include any rights of the Executive under the Company's employee stock purchase plan.
3.4
         
Stock Award Acceleration
 
Executive's restricted stock awards that are outstanding as of the date of the Termination Event ("Restricted Stock") and that are not subject to performance-based vesting shall become fully vested and free from any contractual rights of the Company to repurchase or otherwise reacquire the Restricted Stock as a result of Executive's termination of employment.  All shares of Restricted Stock which have not yet been delivered to Executive or his designee
 
(whether because subject to joint escrow instructions or otherwise) shall be delivered to Executive or his designee as soon as administratively feasible after the occurrence of a Termination Event.  Executive's restricted stock awards that are subject to performance-based vesting shall be covered by the terms of the applicable award agreement.
 
The treatment of Executive's other awards, if any, outstanding under the 1999 Stock Plan of the Company, or any successor plan thereto (together the "Stock Plan"), at the time of the Termination Event shall be governed by the respective award agreement.  This includes but is not limited to restricted stock units, awards under the long-term performance program, and includes awards made pursuant to the Stock Plan which may be settled in cash.
 
If a Termination Event occurs, Executive shall receive a pro-rated bonus under any bonus plan applicable to Executive, which is in place at the time of the Termination Event for the performance period in which the Termination Event occurs.  The amount of the bonus shall be calculated under the terms of such bonus program as established by the Company, including whether or not, or to what degree any performance-based conditions have been met, and shall be equal to the amount of the bonus the Executive would have been paid under the terms of such bonus programs had the Executive continued his employment with the Company until the end of such performance period multiplied by a fraction in which (i) the numerator is the number of days from and including the first day of the performance period until and including the date of the Termination Event, and (ii) the denominator is the number of days in the performance period.  Such bonus shall be paid on the date Executive would have received the bonus if the Termination Event had not occurred during such performance period; provided, however, that in any event such bonus will be paid no later than two and one-half (2 ) months after the end of the calendar year in which the Termination Event occurs.  Executive's rights to the payment provided in this Section 3.5 shall not be terminated by the application of Section 4.2 of this Agreement.  This Section 3.5 shall not apply to awards pursuant to the Stock Plan.
3.5
         
Bonus.  
 
.  Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, Executive shall not be required to mitigate damages or the amount of any payment provided under this Agreement by seeking other employment or otherwise, nor shall the amount of any payment provided for under this Agreement be reduced by any compensation earned by Executive as a result of employment by another employer or by retirement benefits after the date of the Termination Event, or otherwise.
3.6
         
Mitigation
 
.  In the event that (i) one or more payments of compensation or benefits received or to be received by Executive pursuant to this Agreement ("Agreement Payment") would constitute deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") and (ii) Executive is deemed at the time of such termination of employment to be a "specified employee" under Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code, then such Agreement Payment shall not be made or commence until the earlier of (i) the expiration of the six (6)-month period measured from the date of Executive's "separation from service" (as such term is at the time defined in Treasury Regulations under Section 409A of the Code) with the Company or (ii) such earlier time permitted under Section 409A of the Code and the regulations or other authority promulgated thereunder; provided, however, that such deferral shall only be effected to the extent required to avoid adverse tax treatment to Executive under Section 409A of the Code, including (without limitation) the additional twenty percent (20%) tax for which Executive would otherwise be
3.7
Compliance with Section 409A
         
 
liable under Section 409A(a)(1)(B) of the Code in the absence of such deferral.  During any period in which an Agreement Payment to Executive is deferred pursuant to the foregoing, Executive shall be entitled to interest on the deferred Agreement Payment at a per annum rate equal to the highest rate of interest applicable to six (6)-month non-callable certificates of deposit with daily compounding offered by the following institutions: Citibank N.A., Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. or Bank of America, on the date of such separation from service.  Upon the expiration of the applicable deferral period, any Agreement Payment which would have otherwise been made during that period (whether in a single sum or in installments) in the absence of this paragraph shall be paid to Executive or his beneficiary in one lump sum, including all accrued interest.
 
ARTICLE IV.
LIMITATIONS AND CONDITIONS ON BENEFITS; AMENDMENT OF AGREEMENT
 
.  The benefits provided under this Agreement are in lieu of any benefit provided under any other severance plan, program or arrangement of the Company in effect at the time of a Termination Event.  The Company shall withhold appropriate federal, state or local income, employment and other applicable taxes from any payments hereunder.
4.1
         
Reduction in Payments and Benefits; Withholding Taxes
 
.
4.2
         
Obligations of the Executive
 
For two years following the Termination Event, Executive agrees not to personally solicit any of the employees either of the Company or of any entity in which the Company directly or indirectly possesses the ability to determine the voting of 50% or more of the voting securities of such entity (including two-party joint ventures in which each party possesses 50% of the total voting power of the entity) to become employed elsewhere or provide the names of such employees to any other company which Executive has reason to believe will solicit such employees.
(a)
          
 
Following the occurrence of a Termination Event, Executive agrees to continue to satisfy his obligations under the terms of the Company's standard form of Proprietary Information and Non-Disclosure Agreement previously executed by Executive (or any comparable agreement subsequently executed by Executive in substitution or supplement thereto).  Executive's obligations under this Section 4.2(b) shall not be limited to the Term.
(b)
          
 
It is expressly understood and agreed that although Executive and the Company consider the restrictions contained in this Section 4 to be reasonable, if a final judicial determination is made by a court of competent jurisdiction that the time or territory or any other restriction contained in this Agreement is an unenforceable restriction against Executive, the provisions of this Agreement shall not be rendered void, but shall be deemed amended to apply as to such maximum time or territory and to such maximum extent as such court may judicially determine or indicate to be enforceable.  Alternatively, if any court of competent jurisdiction finds that any restriction contained in this Agreement is unenforceable, and such restriction cannot be amended so as to make it enforceable, such finding shall not affect the enforceability of any of the other restrictions contained herein.
(c)
          
 
Executive acknowledges and agrees that the Company's remedies at law for a breach or threatened breach of any of the provisions of Section 4.2(a) or Section 4.2(b) would be inadequate and, in recognition of this fact, Executive agrees that, in the event of such a breach or threatened breach, in addition to any remedies at law, the Company, without posting any bond, shall, with respect to a breach or threatened breach of Section 4.2(a) or Section 4.2(b) only, obtain equitable relief in the form of specific performance, temporary restraining order, temporary or permanent injunction, or any other equitable remedy which may then be available.
(d)
          
 
Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, and prior to the receipt of any benefits under this Agreement on account of the occurrence of a Termination Event, Executive shall, as of the date of a Termination Event, execute an employee release substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A ("Release") as shall be determined by the Company.  Such employee Release shall specifically relate to all of Executive's rights and claims in existence at the time of such execution relating to Executive's employment with the Company, but shall not include (i) Executive's rights under this Agreement; (ii) Executive's rights under any employee benefit plan sponsored by the Company; or (iii) Executive's rights to indemnification under the Company's bylaws or other governing instruments or under any agreement addressing such subject matter between Executive and the Company or under any merger or acquisition agreement addressing such subject matter; (iv) Executive's rights of insurance under any liability policy covering the Company's officers or (v) claims which Executive may not Release as a matter of law, including, but not limited to, indemnification claims under applicable law.  It is understood that Executive has twenty-one (21) days after receipt of the form of Release from the Company to consider whether to execute such employee Release and Executive may revoke such employee In the event that the Executive has not received a form of Release from the Company by the tenth (10th) day following the Termination Event, the Executive may execute the form of Release attached hereto as Exhibit A and that shall be deemed acceptable to the Company.  Release within seven (7) days after execution of such employee release.  In the event Executive does not execute such employee Release within the twenty-one (21) day period, or if Executive revokes such employee Release within the seven (7)  day period, no benefits shall be payable under this Agreement and this Agreement shall be null and void.  Nothing in this Agreement shall limit the scope or time of applicability of such employee Release once it is executed and not timely revoked.
4.3
         
Employee Release Prior to Receipt of Benefits. 
 
.  In the event that any payment received or to be received by Executive pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise but determined without regard to any additional payments required under this Section 4.4 ("Payment"), would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code, or any comparable federal, state, local or foreign excise tax (such excise tax, together with any interest and penalties, is hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Excise Tax"), then Executive shall be entitled to receive an additional payment from the Company ("Gross-Up Payment") in such an amount that after the payment of all taxes (including, without limitation, any interest and penalties on such taxes and the Excise Tax) on the Payment and on the Gross-Up Payment, Executive shall retain an amount equal to the Payment minus all applicable taxes on the Payment (excluding the Excise Tax).  The intent of the parties is that the Company shall be solely responsible for, and shall pay, any Excise Tax on the Payment and Gross-Up Payment and any income, employment and other taxes (including, without limitation, penalties and interest) imposed on any Gross-Up Payment (as well
4.4
         
Golden Parachute Payments
 
as any loss of tax deduction caused by the Payment or the Gross-Up Payment).  Unless the Company and Executive otherwise agree in writing, all determinations required to be made under this Section 4.4 and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determinations shall be made in writing in good faith by independent tax counsel designated by the Company and reasonably acceptable to Executive ("Independent Tax Counsel").  For purposes of making the calculations required by this Section 4.4, Independent Tax Counsel may make reasonable assumptions and approximations concerning applicable taxes and may rely on reasonable, good faith interpretations concerning the application of Sections 280G and 4999 of the Code.  The Company and Executive shall furnish to Independent Tax Counsel such information and documents as Independent Tax Counsel may reasonably request in order to make a determination under this Section 4.4.  The Company shall bear all costs that Independent Tax Counsel may reasonably incur in connection with any calculations contemplated by this Section 4.4.   Any Gross-up Payments pursuant to this Section 4.4 shall be paid not later than the end of the taxable year following the taxable year in which the determination under this Section 4.4 was made.
 
.  The Company may make amendments to this Agreement without the consent of the Executive which are non-material and which are not adverse to the Executive to the extent necessary or advisable to comply with laws.  Any other changes to or, terminations of this Agreement may be made only upon the mutual written consent of the Company and Executive; provided, however, that only prior to the  Section 1.2 Date, the Company may unilaterally terminate this Agreement following eighteen (18) months' prior written notice to Executive and on or following the Section 1.2 Date, this Agreement may not be terminated.  If the Company makes any changes to this Agreement pursuant to the first sentence of this Section 4.5 it shall provide prompt written notice and a copy of such change to the Executive.
4.5
         
Amendment or Termination of This Agreement
 
ARTICLE V.
OTHER RIGHTS AND BENEFITS NOT AFFECTED
 
.  Nothing in the Agreement shall prevent or limit Executive's continuing or future participation in any benefit, bonus, incentive or other plans, programs, policies or practices provided by the Company and for which Executive may otherwise qualify, nor shall anything herein limit or otherwise affect such rights as Executive may have under any stock option or other agreements with the Company; , , that in accordance with Section 4.1, any benefits provided hereunder shall be in lieu of any other severance benefits to which Executive may otherwise be entitled, including without limitation, under any employment contract or severance plan.  Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, amounts which are vested benefits or which Executive is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan, policy, practice or program of the Company at or subsequent to the date of a Termination Event shall be payable in accordance with such plan, policy, practice or program.
5.1
         
Nonexclusivity
provided
however
 
.  This Agreement does not constitute a contract of employment or impose on Executive any obligation to remain as an employee, or impose on the Company any obligation (i) to retain Executive as an employee, (ii) to change the status of Executive as an at-will employee, or (iii) to change the Company's policies regarding termination or alteration of employment.
5.2
         
Employment Status
 
ARTICLE VI.
NON-ALIENATION OF BENEFITS
 
No benefit hereunder shall be subject to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge, and any attempt to do so shall be void.
 
ARTICLE VII.
DEFINITIONS
 
For purposes of the Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
 
"" means this Change of Control Severance Agreement.
7.1
         
Agreement
 
" means Executive's annual salary (excluding bonus, any other incentive or other payments and stock option exercises) from the Company at the time of the occurrence of the Change of Control or a Termination Event, whichever is greater.
7.2
         
Base Salary"
 
"" means misconduct, including but not limited to: (i) conviction of any felony or any crime involving moral turpitude or dishonesty which has a material adverse effect on the Company's business or reputation; (ii) repeated unexplained or unjustified absences from the Company; (iii) refusal or willful failure to act in accordance with any specific lawful direction or order of the Company or stated written policy of the Company which has a material adverse effect on the Company's business or reputation; (iv) a material and willful violation of any state or federal law which if made public would materially injure the business or reputation of the Company as reasonably determined by the Board; (v) participation in a fraud or act of dishonesty against the Company which has a material adverse effect on the Company's business or reputation; (vi) conduct by Executive which the Board determines demonstrates gross unfitness to serve; or (vii) intentional, material violation by Executive of any contract between Executive and the Company or any statutory duty of Executive to the Company that is not corrected within thirty (30) days after written notice to Executive thereof.  Whether or not the actions or omissions of Executive constitute "Cause" within the meaning of this Section 7.3 shall be decided by the Board based upon a reasonable good faith investigation and determination.  Physical or mental disability shall not constitute "Cause."
7.3
         
Cause
 
"" means the occurrence of any of the following events:
7.4
         
Change of Control
 
The sale, exchange, lease or other disposition or transfer of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Company to a person or group (as such terms are defined or described in Sections 3(a) (9) and 13(d) (3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) which will continue the business of the Company in the future; or
(i)
           
 
A merger or consolidation involving the Company in which the shareholders of the Company immediately prior to such merger or consolidation are not the beneficial owners (within the meaning of Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of more than 75% of the total voting power of the outstanding voting securities of
(ii)
          
 
the corporation resulting from such transaction in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of the total voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the Company immediately prior to such merger or consolidation; or
 
The acquisition of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of at least 25% of the total voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the Company by a person or group (as such terms are defined or described in Sections 3(a) (9) and 13(d) (3) of the Exchange Act).
(iii)
         
 
"" means Agilent Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and any successor thereto.
7.5
         
Company
 
"" means (i) a more than $10,000 reduction of Executive's rate of compensation as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Date of this Agreement or in effect immediately prior to the occurrence of a Change of Control, whichever is greater, other than reductions in Base Salary that apply broadly to employees of the Company or reductions due to varying metrics and achievement of performance goals for different periods under variable pay programs; (ii) either (A) failure to provide a package of benefits which, taken as a whole, provides substantially similar benefits to those in which the Executive is entitled to participate immediately prior to the occurrence of the Change of Control (except that employee contributions may be raised to the extent of any cost increases imposed by third parties) or (B) any action by the Company which would significantly and adversely affect Executive's participation or reduce Executive's benefits under any of such plans in existence the day prior to the Change of Control, other than changes that apply broadly to employees of the Company; (iii) change in Executive's duties, responsibilities, authority, job title, or reporting relationships resulting in a significant diminution of position, excluding for this purpose an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent action not taken in bad faith which is remedied by the Company within thirty (30) days after notice thereof is given by Executive; (iv) request that Executive relocate to a worksite that is more than 35 miles from his prior worksite, unless Executive accepts such relocation opportunity; (v) failure or refusal of a successor to the Company to assume the Company's obligations under this Agreement, as provided in Section 8.7; or (vi) material breach by the Company or any successor to the Company of any of the material provisions of this Agreement.  For purposes of clause (iii) of the immediately preceding sentence, Executive's duties, responsibilities, authority, job title or reporting relationships shall not be considered to be significantly diminished (and therefore shall not constitute "Good Reason") so long as Executive continues to perform substantially the same functional role for the Company as Executive performed immediately prior to the occurrence of the Change of Control, even if the Company becomes a subsidiary or division of another entity.
7.6
         
Good Reason
 
"" means that amount (expressed as a percentage of Executive's Base Salary) equal to Executive's "target bonus" as defined under the Company's Performance-Based Compensation Plan for Covered Employees (or the comparable term or standard under the Company's cash incentive plan in effect at the time of Executive's Termination Event if the Performance-Based Compensation Plan for Covered Employees is no longer in effect at such time) as set for the Executive by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors or other authorized body, covering the twelve-month period ending at the end of the performance period during which the Executive's Termination Event occurs.
7.7
         
Target Bonus
 
7.8         
"" means an involuntary termination of employment described in Section 2.1(a) or a voluntary termination of employment described in Section 2.2(a).
Termination Event
 
7.9         
Termination of employment for purposes of this Agreement means
a separation from service within the meaning of Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h).  The Executive shall not be deemed to have separated from service if the Executive continues to provide services to the Company at an annual rate that is fifty percent or more of the services rendered, on average, during the immediately preceding three full years of employment with the Company (or if employed by the Company less than three years, such lesser period); provided, however, that a separation from service will be deemed to have occurred if the Executive service with the Company is reduced to an annual rate that is less than twenty percent of the services rendered, on average, during the immediately preceding three full years of employment with the Company (or if employed by the Company less than three years, such lesser period). For purposes of this Section 7.9 only and for determining whether a Executive has experienced a separation from service, the "Company" shall mean the Company and its affiliates that are treated as a single employer under section 414(b) or (c) of the Code.
 
ARTICLE VIII.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
 
8.1         
Notices
.  Any notices provided hereunder must be in writing and such notices or any other written communication shall be deemed effective upon the earlier of personal delivery (including personal delivery by telex or facsimile) or the third day after mailing by first class mail, to the Company at its primary office location and to Executive at Executive's address as listed in the Company's payroll records.  Any payments made by the Company to Executive under the terms of this Agreement shall be delivered to Executive either in person or at such address as listed in the Company's payroll records.
 
8.2         
Severability
.  It is the intent of the parties to this Agreement that whenever possible, each provision of this Agreement will be interpreted in such manner as to be effective and valid under applicable law, but if any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect under any applicable law or rule in any jurisdiction, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability will not affect any other provision or any other jurisdiction, but this Agreement will be reformed, construed and enforced in such jurisdiction as if such invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions had never been contained herein.
 
8.3         
Waiver
.  If either party should waive any breach of any provisions of this Agreement, that party shall not thereby be deemed to have waived any preceding or succeeding breach of the same or any other provision of this Agreement.
 
8.4         
Complete Agreement
.  This Agreement, including Exhibit A, constitutes the entire agreement between Executive and the Company and it is the complete, final, and exclusive embodiment of their agreement with regard to this subject matter.  It is entered into without reliance on any promise or representation other than those expressly contained herein.
 
8.5         
Counterparts
.  This Agreement may be executed in separate counterparts, any one of which need not contain signatures of more than one party, but all of which taken together will constitute one and the same Agreement.
 
8.6         
Headings
.  The headings of the Articles and Sections hereof are inserted for convenience only and shall neither be deemed to constitute a part hereof nor to affect the meaning thereof.
 
8.7         
Successors and Assigns
.  This Agreement is intended to bind and inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by Executive and the Company, and their respective successors, assigns, heirs, executors and administrators, except that Executive may not delegate any of Executive's duties hereunder and may not assign any of Executive's rights hereunder without the written consent of the Company, which consent shall not be withheld unreasonably.  Any successor to the Company (whether direct or indirect and whether by purchase, merger, consolidation, liquidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the Company's business and/or assets shall assume the Company's obligations under this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent as the Company would be required to perform such obligations in the absence of a succession.  For all purposes under this Agreement, the term "Company" shall include any successor to the Company's business and/or assets, whether or not such successor executes and delivers an assumption agreement referred to in the preceding sentence or becomes bound by the terms of this Agreement by operation of law or otherwise.
 
8.8         
Attorney Fees
.  If either party hereto brings any action to enforce such party's rights hereunder, the prevailing party in any such action shall be entitled to recover such party's reasonable attorneys' fees and costs incurred in connection with such action.
 
8.9         
Arbitration
.  In order to ensure rapid and economical resolution of any dispute which may arise under this Agreement, Executive and the Company agree that any and all disputes or controversies, arising from or regarding the interpretation, performance, enforcement or termination of this Agreement shall submitted to JAMS for non-binding mediation.  If complete agreement cannot be reached within 60 days after the date of submission to mediation, any remaining issues will be submitted to JAMS to be resolved by final and binding arbitration under the JAMS Arbitration Rules and Procedures for Employment Disputes.  The reference to JAMS shall refer to any successor to JAMS, if applicable.  .
BY ENTERING INTO THIS AGREEMENT, THE COMPANY AND EXECUTIVE ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THEY ARE WAIVING THEIR RIGHT TO JURY TRIAL OF ANY DISPUTE COVERED BY THIS AGREEMENT
 
8.10       
Choice of Law
.  All questions concerning the construction, validity and interpretation of this Agreement will be governed by the law of the State of California.
 
8.11       
Construction of Agreement
.  In the event of a conflict between the text of the Agreement and any summary, description or other information regarding the Agreement, the text of the Agreement shall control.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
, the parties have executed this Agreement effective on the day and year written above.
 
 
 
Exhibit A: Employee General Release
 
 
CONFIDENTIAL
 
 
GENERAL RELEASE AND AGREEMENT
 
This General Release and Agreement (the "Agreement") is made and entered into by ("Executive").  The Agreement is part of an agreement between Executive and Agilent Technologies, Inc. ("Agilent') to terminate Executive's employment with Agilent on terms that are satisfactory both to Agilent and to Executive.  Therefore, Executive agrees as follows:
 
1.
                   
Executive agrees to attend a Functional Exit Interview on                         , 20     at which time all company property and identification will be turned in and the appropriate personnel documents will be executed.  Thereafter, Executive agrees to do such other acts as may be reasonably requested by Agilent in order to effectuate the terms of this agreement.  Executive agrees to remove all personal effects from his current office within seven days of signing this agreement and in any event not later than                       , 20    .
 
2.
                   
Executive agrees not to make any public statement or statements to the press concerning Agilent, its business objectives, its management practices, or other sensitive information without first receiving Agilent's written approval.  Executive further agrees to take no action which would cause Agilent or its employees or agents any embarrassment or humiliation or otherwise cause or contribute to Agilent's or any such person's being held in disrepute by the general public or Agilent's employees, clients, or customers.
 
3.
                   
Executive, on behalf of Executive's heirs, estate, executors, administrators, successors and assigns does fully release, discharge, and agree to hold harmless Agilent, its officers, agents, employees, attorneys, subsidiaries, affiliated companies, successors and assigns from all actions, causes of action, claims, judgments, obligations, damages, liabilities, costs, or expense of whatsoever kind and character which he may have, ;
including but not limited to
 
a.
                   
any claims relating to employment discrimination on account of race, sex, age, national origin, creed, disability, or other basis, whether or not arising under the Federal Civil Rights Acts, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, California Fair Employment and Housing Act, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Americans With Disabilities Act, any amendments to the foregoing laws, or any other federal, state, county, municipal, or other law, statute, regulation or order relating to employment discrimination;
 
b.
                  
any claims relating to pay or leave of absence arising under the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Family Medical Leave Act, and any similar laws enacted in California;
 
c.
                   
any claims for reemployment, salary, wages, bonuses, vacation pay, stock options, acquired rights, appreciation from stock options, stock appreciation rights, benefits or other compensation of any kind;
d.
                  
any claims relating to, arising out of, or connected with Executive's employment with Agilent, whether or not the same be based upon any alleged violation of public policy; compliance (or lack thereof) with any internal Agilent policy, procedure, practice or guideline; or any oral, written. express, and/or implied employment contract or agreement, or the breach of any terms thereof, including but not limited to, any implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; or any federal, state, county or municipal law, statute, regulation, or order whether or not relating to labor or employment;
and
 
e.
                   
any claims relating to, arising out of, or connected with any other matter or event occurring prior to the execution of this Agreement whether or not brought before any judicial, administrative, or other tribunal.
 
The foregoing release shall not apply to (i) Executive's rights under the Amended and Restated Change of Control Severance Agreement between Executive and the Company; (ii) Executive's rights under any employee benefit plan sponsored by the Company; (iii) Executive's rights to indemnification under the Company's bylaws or other governing instruments or under any agreement addressing such subject matter between Executive and the Company or under any merger or acquisition agreement addressing such subject matter; (iv) Executive's rights of insurance under any liability policy covering the Company's officers or (v) claims which Executive may not release as a matter of law, including, but not limited to, indemnification claims under applicable law.
 
4.
                   
Executive represents and warrants that Executive has not assigned any such claim or authorized any other person or entity to assert such claim on Executive's behalf.  Further, Executive agrees that under this Agreement Executive waives any claim for damages incurred at any time in the future because of alleged continuing effects of past wrongful conduct involving any such claims and any right to sue for injunctive relief against the alleged continuing effects of past wrongful conduct involving such claims.
 
5.
                   
In entering into this Agreement, the parties have intended that this Agreement be a full and final settlement of all matters, whether or not presently disputed, that could have arisen between them.
 
6.
                   
Executive understands and expressly agrees that this Agreement extends to all claims of every nature and kind whatsoever, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, past or present and all rights under Section 1542 of the California Civil Code and/or any similar statute or law or any other jurisdiction are hereby expressly waived. 
Such section reads as follows:
 
"Section 1542.  A general release does not extend to claims which the creditor does not know or suspect to exist in his favor at the time of executing the release, which if known by him must have materially affected his settlement with the debtor."
 
7.
                   
It is expressly agreed that the claims released pursuant to this Agreement include all claims against individual employees of Agilent, whether or not such employees were acting within the course and scope of their employment.
 
8.
                   
Executive understands and agrees that, as a condition of this Agreement, Executive shall not be entitled to any employment (including employment as an independent contractor or otherwise) with Agilent, its subsidiaries or related companies, or any successor, and Executive hereby waives any right, or alleged right, of employment or re-employment with Agilent.  Executive further agrees not to apply for employment with Agilent in the future and not to institute or join any action, lawsuit or proceeding against Agilent, its subsidiaries, related companies or successors for any failure to employ Executive.  In the event Executive should secure such employment, it is agreed that such employment is voidable without cause in the sole discretion of Agilent.  After terminating Executive's employment, should Executive become employed by another company which Agilent merges with or acquires after the date of this Agreement, Executive may continue such employment only if Agilent makes offers of employment to all employees of the acquired or merged company.
 
9.
                   
Executive agrees that the terms, amount and fact of settlement shall be confidential until Agilent Technologies needs to make any required disclosure of any agreements between Agilent and Executive.  Therefore, except as may be necessary to enforce the rights contained herein in an appropriate legal proceeding or as may be necessary to receive professional services from, an attorney, accountant, or other professional adviser in order for such adviser to render professional services, Executive agrees not to disclose any information concerning these arrangements to anyone, including, but not limited to, past, present and future employees of Agilent, until such time of the public filings.
 
10.
             
At Agilent's request, Executive shall cooperate fully in connection with any legal matter, proceeding or action relating to Agilent.
 
11.
             
The terms of this Agreement are intended by the parties as a final expression of their agreement with respect to such terms as are included in this Agreement and may not be contradicted by evidence of any prior or contemporaneous agreement.  The parties further intend that this Agreement constitutes the complete and exclusive statement of its terms and that no extrinsic evidence whatsoever may be introduced in any judicial or other proceeding, if any, involving this Agreement.  No modification of this Agreement shall be effective unless in writing and signed by both parties hereto.
 
12.
             
It is further expressly agreed and understood that Executive has not relied upon any advice from Agilent Technologies, Inc. and/or its attorneys whatsoever as to the taxability, whether pursuant to federal, state, or local income tax statutes or regulations or otherwise, of the payments made hereunder and that Executive will be solely liable for all tax obligations, if any, arising from payment of the sums specified herein and shall hold Agilent Technologies, Inc. harmless from any tax obligations arising from said payment.
 
13.
             
If there is any dispute arising out of or related to this Agreement, which cannot be settled by good faith negotiation between the parties, such dispute will be submitted to JAMS for non-binding mediation.  If complete agreement cannot be reached within 60 days of submission to mediation, any remaining issues will be submitted to JAMS for final and binding arbitration pursuant to JAMS Arbitration Rules and Procedures for Employment Disputes.  The reference to JAMS shall refer to any successor to JAMS, if applicable. 
BY ENTERING INTO THIS AGREEMENT, EXECUTIVE ACKNOWLEDGES THAT EXECUTIVE IS WAIVING EXECUTIVE'S RIGHT TO JURY TRIAL OF ANY DISPUTE COVERED BY THIS AGREEMENT.
 
14.
           
The following notice is provided in accordance with the provisions of Federal Law:
 
You have up to twenty-one days (21) days from the date this General Release and Agreement is given to you in which to accept its terms, although you may accept it any time within those twenty-one (21) days.  You are advised to consult with an attorney regarding this Agreement.  You have the right to revoke your acceptance of this Agreement at any time within seven (7) days from the date you sign it, and this Agreement will not become effective and enforceable until this seven (7) day revocation period has expired.  To revoke your acceptance, you must send a written notice of revocation to Agilent Technologies, Inc., Attention: Senior Vice President and General Counsel located at 5301 Stevens Creek Boulevard, MS 1A-11, Santa Clara, CA 95051 by 5:00 p.m. on or before the seventh day after you sign this Agreement.
 
EXECUTIVE FURTHER STATES THAT EXECUTIVE HAS HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO CONSULT WITH THE ATTORNEY OF EXECUTIVE'S CHOICE, THAT EXECUTIVE HAS CAREFULLY READ THIS AGREEMENT, THAT EXECUTIVE HAS HAD AMPLE TIME TO REFLECT UPON AND CONSIDER ITS CONSEQUENCES, THAT EXECUTIVE FULLY UNDERSTANDS ITS FINAL AND BINDING EFFECT, THAT THE ONLY PROMISES MADE TO EXECUTIVE TO SIGN THIS AGREEMENT ARE THOSE STATED ABOVE OR IN THAT CHANGE OF CONTROL SEVERANCE AGREEMENT BETWEEN AGILENT AND EXECUTIVE, AND THAT EXECUTIVE IS SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT VOLUNTARILY.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been executed in duplicate originals on the date indicated below, and shall become effective as indicated above.
 
 

EXHIBIT 10.3
 
[FORM OF SECTION 16 OFFICER AGREEMENT]
 
AMENDED & RESTATED
CHANGE OF CONTROL SEVERANCE AGREEMENT
 
This Change of Control Severance Agreement (the "Agreement") is entered into this            day of                           , 2008 (the "Effective Date") between                                      ("Executive") and Agilent Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company").  This Agreement supersedes and replaces all prior agreements and understandings on the matters set forth herein, including but not limited to the Change of Control Severance Agreement dated                        , 200       (as further amended on                        , 2004 and on                        , 2005) between Executive and the Company.  This Agreement is intended to provide Executive with the compensation and benefits described herein upon the occurrence of specific events following a change of control of the ownership of the Company (defined as "Change of Control").
 
 
As is the case with most, if not all, publicly-traded businesses, it is expected that the Company from time to time may consider or may be presented with the need to consider the possibility of an acquisition by another company or other change in control of the ownership of the Company.  The Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") recognizes that such considerations can be a distraction to Executive and can cause the Executive to consider alternative employment opportunities or to be influenced by the impact of a possible change in control of the ownership of the Company on Executive's personal circumstances in evaluating such possibilities.  The Board has determined that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to assure that the Company will have the continued dedication and objectivity of Executive, notwithstanding the possibility, threat or occurrence of a Change of Control of the Company.
A.
           
 
The Board believes that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to provide Executive with an incentive to continue his or her employment and to motivate Executive to maximize the value of the Company upon a Change of Control for the benefit of its shareholders.
B.
           
 
The Board believes that it is important to provide Executive with certain benefits upon Executive's termination of employment in certain instances upon or following a Change of Control that provide Executive with enhanced financial security and incentive and encouragement to Executive to remain with the Company notwithstanding the possibility of a Change of Control.
C.
           
 
At the same time, the Board expects the Company to receive certain benefits in exchange for providing Executive with this measure of financial security and incentive under the Agreement.  Therefore, the Board believes that the Executive should provide various specific commitments which are intended to assure the Company that Executive will not direct
D.
           
Executive's skills, experience and knowledge to the detriment of the Company for a period not to exceed the period during which payments are being made to Executive under this Agreement.
 
Certain capitalized terms used in this Agreement are defined in Article VII.
E.
            
 
The Company and Executive hereby agree as follows:
 
ARTICLE I.
 
EMPLOYMENT BY THE COMPANY
 
Executive is currently employed as                                                                     of the Company and has been named a Section 16 officer of the Company.
1.1
         
 
Executive shall be entitled to the rights and benefits  of this Agreement and this Agreement may not be terminated, except as otherwise provided in Section 4.5, if Executive is a Section 16 officer on the date of the occurrence of any event set forth in Section 2.1(a) or Section 2.2(a) hereof (the "Section 1.2 Date.") The rights and obligations of the parties hereto contained in Articles III through VIII shall survive any termination of this Agreement for the longer of (i) twenty-four (24) months following a Termination Event (as hereinafter defined) (the "Term") or (ii) such longer period provided for in this Agreement.
1.2
         
 
The Company and Executive each agree and acknowledge that Executive is employed by the Company as an "at-will" employee and that either Executive or the Company has the right at any time to terminate or to change Executive's employment with the Company, or to determine that Executive is no longer a Section 16 officer of the Company regardless of the continued employment of the Executive with or without cause or advance notice, for any reason or for no reason.  The Company and Executive wish to set forth the compensation and benefits which Executive shall be entitled to receive in the event that Executive's employment with the Company terminates under the circumstances described in Article II of this Agreement.
1.3
         
 
The duties and obligations of the Company to Executive under this Agreement shall be in consideration for Executive's past services to the Company, Executive's continued employment with the Company, Executive's compliance with the obligations described in Section 4.2, and Executive's execution of the general waiver and release described in Section 4.3.   The Company and Executive agree that Executive's compliance with the obligations described in Section 4.2 and Executive's execution of the general waiver and release described in Section 4.3 are preconditions to Executive's entitlement to the receipt of benefits under this Agreement and that these benefits shall not be earned unless all such conditions have been satisfied through the scheduled date of payment.  The Company hereby declares that it has relied upon Executive's commitments under this Agreement to comply with the requirements of Article IV, and would not have been induced to enter into this Agreement or to execute this Agreement in the absence of such commitments.
1.4
         
ARTICLE II.
 
TERMINATION EVENTS
 
.
2.1
                              
Involuntary Termination Upon or Following Change of Control
 
In the event Executive's employment with the Company and its subsidiaries is involuntarily terminated at any time by the Company without Cause either (i) at the time of or within twenty-four (24) months following the occurrence of a Change of Control, (ii) within three (3) months prior to a Change of Control, whether or not such termination is at the request of an "Acquiror", or (iii) at any time prior to a Change of Control, if such termination is at the request of an Acquiror, then, upon such Change of Control, such termination of employment will be a Termination Event and the Company shall pay Executive the compensation and benefits described in and at the times provided under Article III.  For all purposes of this Agreement the term "Acquiror"is either a person or a member of a group of related persons representing such group that in either case obtains effective control of the Company in the transaction or a group of related transactions constituting the Change of Control.
(a)
                                 
 
In the event Executive's employment with the Company and its subsidiaries is either involuntarily terminated by the Company with Cause at any time, or is involuntarily terminated by the Company without Cause at any time other than under the circumstances described in Section 2.1(a), then such termination of employment will be a Termination Event, Executive will be entitled to receive any payments or benefits under the provisions of this Agreement, and the Company will cease paying compensation or providing benefits to Executive as of Executive's termination date.
(b)
                                
not
not
 
.
2.2
                              
Voluntary Termination Upon or Following Change of Control
 
Executive may voluntarily terminate his employment with the Company and its subsidiaries at any time.  In the event Executive voluntarily terminates his employment within three (3) months of the occurrence of an event constituting Good Reason and on account of an event constituting Good Reason, which event occurs either (i) at the time of or within twenty-four (24) months following the occurrence of a Change of Control, (ii) within three (3) months prior to a Change of Control, whether or not such termination is at the request of an "Acquiror", or (iii) at any time prior to a Change of Control, if such triggering event or Executive's termination is at the request of an Acquiror, then, upon such Change of Control, such termination of employment will be a Termination Event and the Company shall pay Executive the compensation and benefits described in and at the times provided under Article III.
(a)
                                 
 
In the event (i) Executive voluntarily terminates his employment for any reason other than on account of an event constituting Good Reason under the circumstances described in Section 2.2(a), or (ii) Executive's employment terminates on account of either death or physical or mental disability, then such termination of employment will be a Termination Event, Executive will be entitled to receive any payments or benefits under the provisions of this Agreement, and the Company will cease paying compensation or providing benefits to Executive as of the Executive's termination date.
(b)
                                
not
not
ARTICLE III.
 
COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS PAYABLE
 
.  If a Termination Event occurs, Executive shall be entitled to receive the benefits described in this Agreement so long as Executive complies with the restrictions and limitations set forth in Article IV; provided, further, that the Executive must execute the employee Release (as defined in Section 4.3); and the time period for revocation of such Release must have elapsed (an "Effective Release") within sixty (60) days of the Termination Event which Release shall remain in effect at the time that the benefits of this Article III are paid.  If a Termination Event does not occur, Executive shall not be entitled to receive any benefits described in this Agreement, except as otherwise specifically set forth herein.
3.1
         
Right to Benefits
 
.  Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, Executive shall receive two times the sum of Executive's Base Salary plus Target Bonus, less any applicable withholding of federal, state or local taxes.  Amounts to be paid under this section shall be paid in a lump sum no later than the later of thirty (30) days after the date of the Termination Event or the date of an Effective Release.
3.2
         
Salary Continuation
 
.
3.3
         
Health Insurance Coverage
 
Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, Executive shall be entitled to receive a payment equal to Eighty-Thousand U.S. Dollars ($80,000) (the "Health Expense Benefit").  The purpose of the Health Expense Benefit is to assist Executive with healthcare expenses, including additional health plan premium payments that may result from the occurrence of a Termination Event.  Amounts to be paid under this section shall be paid in a lump sum no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the Termination Event or the date of an Effective Release.
 
Health Expense Benefit.  This Section 3.3 does not affect the rights of Executive or Executive's covered dependents under any applicable law with respect to health insurance continuation coverage.
This Section 3.3 provides only for the Company's payment of the
 
.  Executive's stock options which are outstanding as of the date of the Termination Event (the "Stock Options") shall become fully vested upon the occurrence of the Termination Event and exercisable so long as Executive complies with the restrictions and limitations set forth in Article IV.  The maximum period of time during which the Stock Options shall remain exercisable, and all other terms and conditions of the Stock Options, shall be as specified in the relevant Stock Option agreements and relevant stock plans under which the Stock Option were granted.  The term "Stock Options" shall not include any rights of the Executive under the Company's employee stock purchase plan.
3.4
         
Stock Award Acceleration
 
Executive's restricted stock awards that are outstanding as of the date of the Termination Event ("Restricted Stock") and that are not subject to performance-based vesting shall become fully vested and free from any contractual rights of the Company to repurchase or otherwise reacquire the Restricted Stock as a result of Executive's termination of employment.  All shares of Restricted Stock which have not yet been delivered to Executive or his designee (whether because subject to joint escrow instructions or otherwise) shall be delivered to Executive or his designee as soon as administratively feasible after the occurrence of a Termination Event.
Executive's restricted stock awards that are subject to performance-based vesting shall be covered by the terms of the applicable award agreement.
 
The treatment of Executive's other awards, if any, outstanding under the 1999 Stock Plan of the Company, or any successor plan thereto (together the "Stock Plan"), at the time of the Termination Event shall be governed by the respective award agreement.  This includes but is not limited to restricted stock units, awards under the long-term performance program, and includes awards made pursuant to the Stock Plan which may be settled in cash.
 
.  If a Termination Event occurs, Executive shall receive a pro-rated bonus under any bonus plan applicable to Executive, which is in place at the time of the Termination Event for the performance period in which the Termination Event occurs.  The amount of the bonus shall be calculated under the terms of such bonus program as established by the Company, including  whether or not, or to what degree, any performance-based conditions have been met, and shall be equal to the amount of the bonus the Executive would have been paid under the terms of such bonus program had the Executive continued his employment with the Company until the end of such performance period multiplied by a fraction in which (i) the numerator is the number of days from and including the first day of the performance period until and including the date of the Termination Event, and (ii) the denominator is the number of days in the performance period.  Such bonus shall be paid on the date Executive would have received the bonus if the Termination Event had not occurred during such performance period; provided, however, that in any event such bonus will be paid no later than two and one-half (2 ) months after the end of the calendar year in which the Termination Event occurs.  Executive's rights to the payment provided in this Section 3.5 shall not be terminated by the application of Section 4.2 of this Agreement.  This Section 3.5 shall not apply to awards pursuant to the Stock Plan.
3.5
         
Bonus
 
.  Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, Executive shall not be required to mitigate damages or the amount of any payment provided under this Agreement by seeking other employment or otherwise, nor shall the amount of any payment provided for under this Agreement be reduced by any compensation earned by Executive as a result of employment by another employer or by retirement benefits after the date of the Termination Event, or otherwise.
3.6
         
Mitigation
 
.  In the event that (i) one or more payments of compensation or benefits received or to be received by Executive pursuant to this Agreement ("Agreement Payment") would constitute deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") and (ii) Executive is deemed at the time of such termination of employment to be a "specified employee" under Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code, then such Agreement Payment shall not be made or commence until the earlier of (i) the expiration of the six (6)-month period measured from the date of Executive's "separation from service" (as such term is at the time defined in Treasury Regulations under Section 409A of the Code) with the Company or (ii) such earlier time permitted under Section 409A of the Code and the regulations or other authority promulgated thereunder; provided, however, that such deferral shall only be effected to the extent required to avoid adverse tax treatment to Executive under Section 409A of the Code, including (without limitation) the additional twenty percent (20%) tax for which Executive would otherwise be liable under Section 409A(a)(1)(B) of the Code in the absence of such deferral.  During any period in which an Agreement Payment to Executive is deferred pursuant to the foregoing,
3.7
Compliance with Section 409A
         
Executive shall be entitled to interest on the deferred Agreement Payment at a per annum rate equal to the highest rate of interest applicable to six (6)-month non-callable certificates of deposit with daily compounding offered by the following institutions: Citibank N.A., Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. or Bank of America, on the date of such separation from service. Upon the expiration of the applicable deferral period, any Agreement Payment which would have otherwise been made during that period (whether in a single sum or in installments) in the absence of this paragraph shall be paid to Executive or his beneficiary in one lump sum, including all accrued interest.
 
ARTICLE IV.
 
LIMITATIONS AND CONDITIONS ON BENEFITS; AMENDMENT OF AGREEMENT
 
.  The benefits provided under this Agreement are in lieu of any benefit provided under any other severance plan, program or arrangement of the Company in effect at the time of a Termination Event.  The Company shall withhold appropriate federal, state or local income, employment and other applicable taxes from any payments hereunder.
4.1
         
Reduction in Payments and Benefits; Withholding Taxes
 
.
4.2
                              
Obligations of the Executive
 
For two years following the Termination Event, Executive agrees not to personally solicit any of the employees either of the Company or of any entity in which the Company directly or indirectly possesses the ability to determine the voting of 50% or more of the voting securities of such entity (including two-party joint ventures in which each party possesses 50% of the total voting power of the entity) to become employed elsewhere or provide the names of such employees to any other company which Executive has reason to believe will solicit such employees.
(a)
                                 
 
Following the occurrence of a Termination Event, Executive agrees to continue to satisfy his obligations under the terms of the Company's standard form of Proprietary Information and Non-Disclosure Agreement previously executed by Executive (or any comparable agreement subsequently executed by Executive in substitution or supplement thereto).  Executive's obligations under this Section 4.2(b) shall not be limited to the Term.
(b)
                                
 
It is expressly understood and agreed that although Executive and the Company consider the restrictions contained in this Section 4 to be reasonable, if a final judicial determination is made by a court of competent jurisdiction that the time or territory or any other restriction contained in this Agreement is an unenforceable restriction against Executive, the provisions of this Agreement shall not be rendered void, but shall be deemed amended to apply as to such maximum time or territory and to such maximum extent as such court may judicially determine or indicate to be enforceable.  Alternatively, if any court of competent jurisdiction finds that any restriction contained in this Agreement is unenforceable, and such restriction cannot be amended so as to make it enforceable, such finding shall not affect the enforceability of any of the other restrictions contained herein.
(c)
                                 
 
Executive acknowledges and agrees that the Company's remedies at law for a breach or threatened breach of any of the provisions of Section 4.2(a) or Section 4.2(b) 
(d)
                                
would be inadequate and, in recognition of this fact, Executive agrees that, in the event of such a breach or threatened breach, in addition to any remedies at law, the Company, without posting any bond, shall, with respect to a breach or threatened breach of Section 4.2(a) or Section 4.2(b) only, obtain equitable relief in the form of specific performance, temporary restraining order, temporary or permanent injunction, or any other equitable remedy which may then be available.
 
.  Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, and prior to the receipt of any benefits under this Agreement on account of the occurrence of a Termination Event, Executive shall, as of the date of a Termination Event, execute an employee release substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A ("Release") as shall be determined by the Company.  Such employee Release shall specifically relate to all of Executive's rights and claims in existence at the time of such execution relating to Executive's employment with the Company, but shall not include (i) Executive's rights under this Agreement; (ii) Executive's rights under any employee benefit plan sponsored by the Company; or (iii) Executive's rights to indemnification under the Company's bylaws or other governing instruments or under any agreement addressing such subject matter between Executive and the Company or under any merger or acquisition agreement addressing such subject matter; (iv) Executive's rights of insurance under any liability policy covering the Company's officers or (v) claims which Executive may not Release as a matter of law, including, but not limited to, indemnification claims under applicable law.  It is understood that Executive has twenty-one (21) days after receipt of the form of Release from the Company to consider whether to execute such employee Release and Executive may revoke such employee Release within seven (7) days after execution of such employee Release.  In the event that the Executive has not received a form of Release from the Company by the tenth (10) day following the Termination Event, the Executive may execute the form of Release attached hereto as Exhibit A and that shall be deemed acceptable to the Company.   In the event Executive does not execute such employee Release within the twenty-one (21) day period, or if Executive revokes such employee Release within the seven (7) day period, no benefits shall be payable under this Agreement and this Agreement shall be null and void.  Nothing in this Agreement shall limit the scope or time of applicability of such employee Release once it is executed and not timely revoked.
4.3
         
Employee Release Prior to Receipt of Benefits
th
 
.
4.4
                              
Golden Parachute Payments
 
In the event that any payment received or to be received by Executive pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise but determined without regard to any additional payments required under this Section 4.4 ("Payment") would (i) constitute a "parachute payment" within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code and (ii) but for this subsection (a), be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code, or any comparable federal, state, local or foreign excise tax (such excise tax, together with any interest and penalties, is hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Excise Tax"), then, subject to the provisions of subsection (c) hereof, Executive shall be entitled to receive an additional payment from the Company (the "Gross-Up Payment") in such an amount that after the payment of all taxes (including without limitation, any interest and penalties on such taxes and the Excise Tax) on the Payment and on the Gross-Up Payment, Executive shall retain an amount equal to the Payment minus all applicable taxes on the Payment (excluding the Excise Tax).  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Executive shall not be entitled to receive a Gross-Up Payment if (1) the Payments may be reduced by an amount sufficient to result in no portion of the Payment retained by Executive
(a)
                                 
being subject to the Excise Tax ("Reduced Amount"), taking into account all applicable federal, state, local and foreign income, employment and other taxes and (2) after reducing the Payment by such Reduced Amount, Executive would receive, on a pre-tax basis, an amount not less than ninety percent (90%) of the value of the unreduced Payment on a pre-tax basis (the "Threshold Payment Level").  The intent of the parties is that if Executive is entitled to a Gross-Up Payment pursuant to this Section 4.4, the Company shall be solely responsible for, and shall pay, any Excise Tax on the Payment and the Gross-Up Payment and any income, employment and other taxes (including, without limitation, penalties and interest) imposed on any Gross-Up Payment. The Company shall be responsible for any loss of tax deduction that the Company has to forego caused by the Payment or the Gross-Up Payment.  Any Gross-up Payments pursuant to this Section 4.4 shall be paid not later than the end of the taxable year following the taxable year in which the determination under this Section 4.4 was made.
 
Unless the Company and the Executive otherwise agree in writing, any determination required under this Section 4.4, and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determinations, shall be made in writing in good faith by independent tax counsel designated by the Company and reasonably acceptable to Executive ("Independent Tax Counsel").  For purposes of making the calculations required under this Section 4.4, Independent Tax Counsel may make reasonable assumptions and approximations concerning applicable taxes and may rely on reasonable, good faith interpretations concerning the application of Sections 280G and 4999 of the Code.  The Company and Executive shall furnish to Independent Tax Counsel such information and documents as Independent Tax Counsel may reasonably request in order to make a determination under this Section 4.4.  The Company shall bear all costs that Independent Tax Counsel may reasonably incur in connection with any calculations contemplated by this Section 4.4.
(b)
          
 
In the event that Executive is not entitled to the Gross-Up Payment pursuant to subsection (a) hereof and instead shall be entitled to receive the Payment reduced by the Reduced Amount ("Net Payment"), then based on the information provided to Executive and the Company by Independent Tax Counsel, Executive may, in the Executive's sole discretion and within 30 days of the date on which Executive is provided with the information prepared by Independent Tax Counsel, determine the composition of the Net Payment (as long as after such determination the value (as calculated by Independent Tax Counsel in accordance with the provisions of Sections 280G and 4999 of the Code) of the amounts selected by Executive hereunder equals the Net Payment).  If the Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") determines the Net Payment is subject to the Excise Tax, then subsection (d) hereof shall apply, and the enforcement of subsection (d) shall be the exclusive remedy to the Company.
(c)
          
 
If, notwithstanding any reduction described in subsection (a) hereof, the IRS determines that Executive is liable for the Excise Tax as a result of the receipt of the Net Payment, then Executive shall be obligated to pay back to the Company, within 30 days after a final IRS determination, an amount equal to the "Repayment Amount."  The "Repayment Amount" shall be the smallest such amount of the Net Payment, if any, as shall be required to be paid to the Company so that none of the value retained by Executive from the Net Payment shall be subject to the Excise Tax.  Notwithstanding the preceding sentences of this subsection (d), if reduction of the Net Payment by the Repayment Amount would result in the receipt by the Executive, on a pre-tax basis, of a portion of the Payment which is less than the Threshold Payment Level, then Executive shall not be obligated to pay any of the Repayment Amount, and
(d)
          
instead Executive shall be entitled to receive from the Company the Reduced Amount as well as the full Gross-Up Payment, with the value of that portion of the Reduced Amount that would have originally been paid in the form of the equity securities of the Company now payable by delivery of marketable equity securities that are immediately saleable by Executive in the public securities market in which such securities are traded.
 
(e) The elements of the Executive's Payments hereunder that constitute the "Reduced Amount" shall be chosen as follows, but only if necessary to avoid the application of Section  409A of the Code:  any reduction will first be made by reducing any cash payments due hereunder, subject to Section  409A of the Code; second by any cash payments due hereunder not subject to Section 409A of the Code; third by any equity vesting or payments due hereunder subject to Section  409A of the Code; and lastly by any equity vesting or payments due hereunder not subject to Section  409A of the Code.
 
.  The Company may make amendments to this Agreement without the consent of the Executive which are non-material and which are not adverse to the Executive to the extent necessary or advisable to comply with laws.  Any other changes to or, termination of this Agreement may be  made only upon the mutual written consent of the Company and Executive; provided, however, that only prior to the Section 1.2 Date , the Company may unilaterally terminate this Agreement following eighteen (18) months' prior written notice to Executive and on or following the Section 1.2 Date, this Agreement may not be terminated.  If the Company makes any changes to this Agreement pursuant to the first sentence of this Section 4.5 it shall provide prompt written notice and a copy of such change to the Executive.
4.5
         
Amendment or Termination of This Agreement
 
ARTICLE V.
 
OTHER RIGHTS AND BENEFITS NOT AFFECTED
 
.  Nothing in the Agreement shall prevent or limit Executive's continuing or future participation in any benefit, bonus, incentive or other plans, programs, policies or practices provided by the Company and for which Executive may otherwise qualify, nor shall anything herein limit or otherwise affect such rights as Executive may have under any stock option or other agreements with the Company; , , that in accordance with Section 4.1, any benefits provided hereunder shall be in lieu of any other severance benefits to which Executive may otherwise be entitled, including without limitation, under any employment contract or severance plan.  Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, amounts which are vested benefits or which Executive is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan, policy, practice or program of the Company at or subsequent to the date of a Termination Event shall be payable in accordance with such plan, policy, practice or program.
5.1
         
Nonexclusivity
provided
however
 
.  This Agreement does not constitute a contract of employment or impose on Executive any obligation to remain as an employee, or impose on the Company any obligation (i) to retain Executive as an employee, (ii) to change the status of
5.2
         
Employment Status
Executive as an at-will employee, or (iii) to change the Company's policies regarding termination or alteration of employment.
 
ARTICLE VI.
 
NON-ALIENATION OF BENEFITS
 
No benefit hereunder shall be subject to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge, and any attempt to do so shall be void.
 
ARTICLE VII.
 
DEFINITIONS
 
For purposes of the Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
 
"" means this Change of Control Severance Agreement.
7.1
         
Agreement
 
" means Executive's annual salary (excluding bonus, any other incentive or other payments and stock option exercises) from the Company at the time of the occurrence of the Change of Control or a Termination Event, whichever is greater.
7.2
         
Base Salary"
 
"" means misconduct, including but not limited to: (i) conviction of any felony or any crime involving moral turpitude or dishonesty which has a material adverse effect on the Company's business or reputation; (ii) repeated unexplained or unjustified absences from the Company; (iii) refusal or willful failure to act in accordance with any specific lawful direction or order of the Company or stated written policy of the Company which has a material adverse effect on the Company's business or reputation; (iv) a material and willful violation of any state or federal law which if made public would materially injure the business or reputation of the Company as reasonably determined by the Board; (v) participation in a fraud or act of dishonesty against the Company which has a material adverse effect on the Company's business or reputation; (vi) conduct by Executive which the Board determines demonstrates gross unfitness to serve; or (vii) intentional, material violation by Executive of any contract between Executive and the Company or any statutory duty of Executive to the Company that is not corrected within thirty (30) days after written notice to Executive thereof.   Whether or not the actions or omissions of Executive constitute "Cause" within the meaning of this Section 7.3 shall be decided by the Board based upon a reasonable good faith investigation and determination.  Physical or mental disability shall not constitute "Cause."
7.3
         
Cause
 
"" means the occurrence of any of the following events:
7.4
         
Change of Control
 
The sale, exchange, lease or other disposition or transfer of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Company to a person or group (as such terms are defined or described in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) which will continue the business of the Company in the future; or
(i)
    
 
A merger or consolidation involving the Company in which the shareholders of the Company immediately prior to such merger or consolidation are not the beneficial owners
(ii)
   
(within the meaning of Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of more than 75% of the total voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the corporation resulting from such transaction in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of the total voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the Company immediately prior to such merger or consolidation; or
 
The acquisition of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of at least 25% of the total voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the Company by a person or group (as such terms are defined or described in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act).
(iii)
         
 
"" means Agilent Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and any successor thereto.
7.5
         
Company
 
"" means (i) a more than $10,000 reduction of Executive's rate of compensation as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Date of this Agreement or in effect immediately prior to the occurrence of a Change of Control, whichever is greater, other than reductions in Base Salary that apply broadly to employees of the Company or reductions due to varying metrics and achievement of performance goals for different periods under variable pay programs; (ii) either (A) failure to provide a package of benefits which, taken as a whole, provides substantially similar benefits to those in which the Executive is entitled to participate in the day prior to the occurrence of the Change of Control (except that employee contributions may be raised to the extent of any cost increases imposed by third parties) or (B) any action by the Company which would significantly and adversely affect Executive's participation or reduce Executive's benefits under any of such plans in existence the day prior to the Change of Control, other than changes that apply broadly to employees of the Company; (iii) change in Executive's duties, responsibilities, authority, job title, or reporting relationships resulting in a significant diminution of position, excluding for this purpose an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent action not taken in bad faith which is remedied by the Company within thirty (30) days  after notice thereof is given by Executive; (iv) request that Executive relocate to a worksite that is more than 35 miles from his prior worksite, unless Executive accepts such relocation opportunity; (v) failure or refusal of a successor to the Company to assume the Company's obligations under this Agreement, as provided in Section 8.7; or (vi) material breach by the Company or any successor to the Company of any of the material provisions of this Agreement.  For purposes of clause (iii) of the immediately preceding sentence, Executive's duties, responsibilities, authority, job title or reporting relationships shall not be considered to be significantly diminished (and therefore shall not constitute "Good Reason") so long as Executive continues to perform substantially the same functional role for the Company as Executive performed immediately prior to the occurrence of the Change of Control, even if the Company becomes a subsidiary or division of another entity.
7.6
         
Good Reason
 
"" means that amount (expressed as a percentage of Executive's Base Salary) equal to Executive's "target bonus" as defined under the Company's Performance-Based Compensation Plan for Covered Employees (or the comparable term or standard under the Company's cash incentive plan in effect at the time of Executive's Termination Event if the Performance-Based Compensation Plan for Covered Employees is no longer in effect at such time) as set for the Executive by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors or other
7.7
         
Target Bonus
 
authorized body covering the twelve-month period ending at the end of the performance period during which the Executive's Termination Event occurs.
 
7.8         
"" means an involuntary termination of employment described in Section 2.1(a) or a voluntary termination of employment described in Section 2.2(a).
Termination Event
 
7.9         
Termination of employment for purposes of this Agreement means
a separation from service within the meaning of Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h).  The Executive shall not be deemed to have separated from service if the Executive continues to provide services to the Company at an annual rate that is fifty percent or more of the services rendered, on average, during the immediately preceding three full years of employment with the Company (or if employed by the Company less than three years, such lesser period); provided, however, that a separation from service will be deemed to have occurred if the Executive service with the Company is reduced to an annual rate that is less than twenty percent of the services rendered, on average, during the immediately preceding three full years of employment with the Company (or if employed by the Company less than three years, such lesser period). For purposes of this Section 7.9 only and for determining whether a Executive has experienced a separation from service, the "Company" shall mean the Company and its affiliates that are treated as a single employer under section 414(b) or (c) of the Code.
 
ARTICLE VIII.
 
GENERAL PROVISIONS
 
8.1         
Notices
.  Any notices provided hereunder must be in writing and such notices or any other written communication shall be deemed effective upon the earlier of personal delivery (including personal delivery by telex or facsimile) or the third day after mailing by first class mail, to the Company at its primary office location and to Executive at Executive's address as listed in the Company's payroll records.  Any payments made by the Company to Executive under the terms of this Agreement shall be delivered to Executive either in person or at such address as listed in the Company's payroll records.
 
8.2         
Severability
.  It is the intent of the parties to this Agreement that whenever possible, each provision of this Agreement will be interpreted in such manner as to be effective and valid under applicable law, but if any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect under any applicable law or rule in any jurisdiction, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability will not affect any other provision or any other jurisdiction, but this Agreement will be reformed, construed and enforced in such jurisdiction as if such invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions had never been contained herein.
 
8.3         
Waiver
.  If either party should waive any breach of any provisions of this Agreement, that party shall not thereby be deemed to have waived any preceding or succeeding breach of the same or any other provision of this Agreement.
 
8.4         
Complete Agreement
.  This Agreement, including Exhibit A, constitutes the entire agreement between Executive and the Company and it is the complete, final, and exclusive
 
embodiment of their agreement with regard to this subject matter.  It is entered into without reliance on any promise or representation other than those expressly contained herein.
 
8.5         
Counterparts
.  This Agreement may be executed in separate counterparts, any one of which need not contain signatures of more than one party, but all of which taken together will constitute one and the same Agreement.
 
8.6         
Headings
.  The headings of the Articles and Sections hereof are inserted for convenience only and shall neither be deemed to constitute a part hereof nor to affect the meaning thereof.
 
8.7         
Successors and Assigns
.  This Agreement is intended to bind and inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by Executive and the Company, and their respective successors, assigns, heirs, executors and administrators, except that Executive may not delegate any of Executive's duties hereunder and may not assign any of Executive's rights hereunder without the written consent of the Company, which consent shall not be withheld unreasonably.  Any successor to the Company (whether direct or indirect and whether by purchase, merger, consolidation, liquidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the Company's business and/or assets shall assume the Company's obligations under this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent as the Company would be required to perform such obligations in the absence of a succession.  For all purposes under this Agreement, the term "Company" shall include any successor to the Company's business and/or assets, whether or not such successor executes and delivers an assumption agreement referred to in the preceding sentence or becomes bound by the terms of this Agreement by operation of law or otherwise.
 
8.8         
Attorney Fees
.  If either party hereto brings any action to enforce such party's rights hereunder, the prevailing party in any such action shall be entitled to recover such party's reasonable attorneys' fees and costs incurred in connection with such action.
 
8.9         
Arbitration
.  In order to ensure rapid and economical resolution of any dispute which may arise under this Agreement, Executive and the Company agree that any and all disputes or controversies, arising from or regarding the interpretation, performance, enforcement or termination of this Agreement shall submitted to JAMS for non-binding mediation.  If complete agreement cannot be reached within 60 days after the date of submission to mediation, any remaining issues will be submitted to JAMS to be resolved by final and binding arbitration under the JAMS Arbitration Rules and Procedures for Employment Disputes.  The reference to JAMS shall refer to any successor to JAMS, if applicable.  .
BY ENTERING INTO THIS AGREEMENT, THE COMPANY AND EXECUTIVE ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THEY ARE WAIVING THEIR RIGHT TO JURY TRIAL OF ANY DISPUTE COVERED BY THIS AGREEMENT
 
8.10       
Choice of Law
.  All questions concerning the construction, validity and interpretation of this Agreement will be governed by the law of the State of California.
 
8.11       
Construction of Agreement
.  In the event of a conflict between the text of the Agreement and any summary, description or other information regarding the Agreement, the text of the Agreement shall control.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
, the parties have executed this Agreement effective on the day and year written above.
 
 
 
 
Exhibit A: Employee General Release
CONFIDENTIAL
GENERAL RELEASE AND AGREEMENT
 
This General Release and Agreement (the "Agreement") is made and entered into by                                                   ("Executive").  The Agreement is part of an agreement between Executive and Agilent Technologies, Inc. ("Agilent') to terminate Executive's employment with Agilent on terms that are satisfactory both to Agilent and to Executive.  Therefore, Executive agrees as follows:
 
1.
                                      
Executive agrees to attend a Functional Exit Interview on                         , 20     at which time all company property and identification will be turned in and the appropriate personnel documents will be executed.  Thereafter, Executive agrees to do such other acts as may be reasonably requested by Agilent in order to effectuate the terms of this agreement.  Executive agrees to remove all personal effects from his current office within seven days of signing this agreement and in any event not later than                       , 20    .
 
2.
                                      
Executive agrees not to make any public statement or statements to the press concerning Agilent, its business objectives, its management practices, or other sensitive information without first receiving Agilent's written approval.  Executive further agrees to take no action which would cause Agilent or its employees or agents any embarrassment or humiliation or otherwise cause or contribute to Agilent's or any such person's being held in disrepute by the general public or Agilent's employees, clients, or customers.
 
3.
                                      
Executive, on behalf of Executive's heirs, estate, executors, administrators, successors and assigns does fully release, discharge, and agree to hold harmless Agilent, its officers, agents, employees, attorneys, subsidiaries, affiliated companies, successors and assigns from all actions, causes of action, claims, judgments, obligations, damages, liabilities, costs, or expense of whatsoever kind and character which he may have, ;
including but not limited to
 
a.
                                      
any claims relating to employment discrimination on account of race, sex, age, national origin, creed, disability, or other basis, whether or not arising under the Federal Civil Rights Acts, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, California Fair Employment and Housing Act, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Americans With Disabilities Act, any amendments to the foregoing laws, or any other federal, state, county, municipal, or other law, statute, regulation or order relating to employment discrimination;
 
b.
                                     
any claims relating to pay or leave of absence arising under the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Family Medical Leave Act, and any similar laws enacted in California;
 
c.
                                      
any claims for reemployment, salary, wages, bonuses, vacation pay, stock options, acquired rights, appreciation from stock options, stock appreciation rights, benefits or other compensation of any kind;
 
d.
                                     
any claims relating to, arising out of, or connected with Executive's employment with Agilent, whether or not the same be based upon any alleged violation of public policy; compliance (or lack thereof) with any internal Agilent policy, procedure, practice or guideline; or any oral, written. express, and/or implied employment contract or agreement, or the breach of any terms thereof, including but not limited to, any implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; or any federal, state, county or municipal law, statute, regulation, or order whether or not relating to labor or employment;
and
 
e.
                                      
any claims relating to, arising out of, or connected with any other matter or event occurring prior to the execution of this Agreement whether or not brought before any judicial, administrative, or other tribunal.
 
The foregoing release shall not apply to (i) Executive's rights under the Amended and Restated Change of Control Severance Agreement between Executive and the Company; (ii) Executive's rights under any employee benefit plan sponsored by the Company; (iii) Executive's rights to indemnification under the Company's bylaws or other governing instruments or under any agreement addressing such subject matter between Executive and the Company or under any merger or acquisition agreement addressing such subject matter; (iv) Executive's rights of insurance under any liability policy covering the Company's officers or (v) claims which Executive may not release as a matter of law, including, but not limited to, indemnification claims under applicable law.
 
4.
                                      
Executive represents and warrants that Executive has not assigned any such claim or authorized any other person or entity to assert such claim on Executive's behalf.  Further, Executive agrees that under this Agreement Executive waives any claim for damages incurred at any time in the future because of alleged continuing effects of past wrongful conduct involving any such claims and any right to sue for injunctive relief against the alleged continuing effects of past wrongful conduct involving such claims.
 
5.
                                      
In entering into this Agreement, the parties have intended that this Agreement be a full and final settlement of all matters, whether or not presently disputed, that could have arisen between them.
 
6.
                                      
Executive understands and expressly agrees that this Agreement extends to all claims of every nature and kind whatsoever, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, past or present and all rights under Section 1542 of the California Civil Code and/or any similar statute or law or any other jurisdiction are hereby expressly waived. 
Such section reads as follows:
 
"Section 1542.  A general release does not extend to claims which the creditor does not know or suspect to exist in his favor at the time of executing the release, which if known by him must have materially affected his settlement with the debtor."
 
7.
                                      
It is expressly agreed that the claims released pursuant to this Agreement include all claims against individual employees of Agilent, whether or not such employees were acting within the course and scope of their employment.
 
8.
                                      
Executive understands and agrees that, as a condition of this Agreement, Executive shall not be entitled to any employment (including employment as an independent contractor or otherwise) with Agilent, its subsidiaries or related companies, or any successor, and Executive hereby waives any right, or alleged right, of employment or re-employment with Agilent.  Executive further agrees not to apply for employment with Agilent in the future and not to institute or join any action, lawsuit or proceeding against Agilent, its subsidiaries, related companies or successors for any failure to employ Executive.  In the event Executive should secure such employment, it is agreed that such employment is voidable without cause in the sole discretion of Agilent.  After terminating Executive's employment, should Executive become employed by another company which Agilent merges with or acquires after the date of this Agreement, Executive may continue such employment only if Agilent makes offers of employment to all employees of the acquired or merged company.
 
9.
                                      
Executive agrees that the terms, amount and fact of settlement shall be confidential until Agilent Technologies needs to make any required disclosure of any agreements between Agilent and Executive.  Therefore, except as may be necessary to enforce the rights contained herein in an appropriate legal proceeding or as may be necessary to receive professional services from, an attorney, accountant, or other professional adviser in order for such adviser to render professional services, Executive agrees not to disclose any information concerning these arrangements to anyone, including, but not limited to, past, present and future employees of Agilent, until such time of the public filings.
 
10.
                                
At Agilent's request, Executive shall cooperate fully in connection with any legal matter, proceeding or action relating to Agilent.
 
11.
                                
The terms of this Agreement are intended by the parties as a final expression of their agreement with respect to such terms as are included in this Agreement and may not be contradicted by evidence of any prior or contemporaneous agreement.  The parties further intend that this Agreement constitutes the complete and exclusive statement of its terms and that no extrinsic evidence whatsoever may be introduced in any judicial or other proceeding, if any, involving this Agreement.  No modification of this Agreement shall be effective unless in writing and signed by both parties hereto.
 
12.
                                
It is further expressly agreed and understood that Executive has not relied upon any advice from Agilent Technologies, Inc. and/or its attorneys whatsoever as to the taxability, whether pursuant to federal, state, or local income tax statutes or regulations or otherwise, of the payments made hereunder and that Executive will be solely liable for all tax obligations, if any, arising from payment of the sums specified herein and shall hold Agilent Technologies, Inc. harmless from any tax obligations arising from said payment.
 
13.
                                
If there is any dispute arising out of or related to this Agreement, which cannot be settled by good faith negotiation between the parties, such dispute will be submitted to JAMS for
 
non-binding mediation.  If complete agreement cannot be reached within 60 days of submission to mediation, any remaining issues will be submitted to JAMS for final and binding arbitration pursuant to JAMS Arbitration Rules and Procedures for Employment Disputes.  The reference to JAMS shall refer to any successor to JAMS, if applicable. 
BY ENTERING INTO THIS AGREEMENT, EXECUTIVE ACKNOWLEDGES THAT EXECUTIVE IS WAIVING EXECUTIVE'S RIGHT TO JURY TRIAL OF ANY DISPUTE COVERED BY THIS AGREEMENT.
 
14.
          
The following notice is provided in accordance with the provisions of Federal Law:
 
You have up to twenty-one days (21) days from the date this General Release and Agreement is given to you in which to accept its terms, although you may accept it any time within those twenty-one days.  You are advised to consult with an attorney regarding this Agreement.  You have the right to revoke your acceptance of this Agreement at any time within seven (7) days from the date you sign it, and this Agreement will not become effective and enforceable until this seven (7) day revocation period has expired.  To revoke your acceptance, you must send a written notice of revocation to Agilent Technologies, Inc., Attention: Senior Vice President and General Counsel located at 5301 Stevens Creek Boulevard, MS 1A-11, Santa Clara, CA 95051 by 5:00 p.m. on or before the seventh day after you sign this Agreement.
 
EXECUTIVE FURTHER STATES THAT EXECUTIVE HAS HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO CONSULT WITH THE ATTORNEY OF EXECUTIVE'S CHOICE, THAT EXECUTIVE HAS CAREFULLY READ THIS AGREEMENT, THAT EXECUTIVE HAS HAD AMPLE TIME TO REFLECT UPON AND CONSIDER ITS CONSEQUENCES, THAT EXECUTIVE FULLY UNDERSTANDS ITS FINAL AND BINDING EFFECT, THAT THE ONLY PROMISES MADE TO EXECUTIVE TO SIGN THIS AGREEMENT ARE THOSE STATED ABOVE OR IN THAT CHANGE OF CONTROL SEVERANCE AGREEMENT BETWEEN AGILENT AND EXECUTIVE, AND THAT EXECUTIVE IS SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT VOLUNTARILY.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been executed in duplicate originals on the date indicated below, and shall become effective as indicated above.
 
 
EXECUTIVE
 

EXHIBIT 10.4
 
[FORM OF SPECIFIED EXECUTIVE OFFICER AGREEMENT]
 
AMENDED & RESTATED
CHANGE OF CONTROL SEVERANCE AGREEMENT
 
This Agreement is intended to provide Executive with the compensation and benefits described herein upon the occurrence of specific events following a change of control of the ownership of the Company (defined as "Change of Control").
This Change of Control Severance Agreement (the "") is entered into this          day of                            , 2008 (the "Effective Date") between                                      ("Executive") and Agilent Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "").  This Agreement supersedes and replaces all prior agreements and understandings on the matters set forth herein, including but not limited to the Change of Control Severance Agreement dated                      , 200       (as further amended on                               , 200       and on                       , 200      ) between Executive and the Company. 
Agreement
Company
As is the case with most, if not all, publicly-traded businesses, it is expected that the Company from time to time may consider or may be presented with the need to consider the possibility of an acquisition by another company or other change in control of the ownership of the Company.  The Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") recognizes that such considerations can be a distraction to Executive and can cause the Executive to consider alternative employment opportunities or to be influenced by the impact of a possible change in control of the ownership of the Company on Executive's personal circumstances in evaluating such possibilities.  The Board has determined that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to assure that the Company will have the continued dedication and objectivity of Executive, notwithstanding the possibility, threat or occurrence of a Change of Control of the Company.
A.           
 
            The Board believes that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to provide Executive with an incentive to continue his or her employment and to motivate Executive to maximize the value of the Company upon a Change of Control for the benefit of its shareholders.
B.
 
            The Board believes that it is important to provide Executive with certain benefits upon Executive's termination of employment in certain instances upon or following a Change of Control that provide Executive with enhanced financial security and incentive and encouragement to Executive to remain with the Company notwithstanding the possibility of a Change of Control.
C.
 
At the same time, the Board expects the Company to receive certain benefits in exchange for providing Executive with this measure of financial security and incentive under the Agreement.  Therefore, the Board believes that the Executive should provide various specific commitments which are intended to assure the Company that Executive will not direct
D.           
 
Executive's skills, experience and knowledge to the detriment of the Company for a period not to exceed the period during which payments are being made to Executive under this Agreement.
 
Certain capitalized terms used in this Agreement are defined in Article VII.
E.            
 
The Company and Executive hereby agree as follows:
 
ARTICLE I.
 
EMPLOYMENT BY THE COMPANY
 
Executive is currently employed as an Executive II level employee of the Company.
1.1         
 
Executive shall be entitled to the rights and benefits of this Agreement and this Agreement may not be terminated, except as otherwise provided in Section 4.5, if Executive is an Executive II level employee of the Company on the date of the occurrence of any event set forth in Section 2.1(a) or Section 2.2(a) hereof (the "Section 1.2 Date.") The rights and obligations of the parties hereto contained in Articles III through VIII shall survive any termination for the longer of (i) twenty-four (24) months following a Termination Event (as hereinafter defined) (the "Term") or (ii) such longer period provided for in this Agreement.
1.2         
 
The Company and Executive each agree and acknowledge that Executive is employed by the Company as an "at-will" employee and that either Executive or the Company has the right at any time to terminate or to change Executive's employment with the Company, including a change to a position that is no longer an Executive II level employee, with or without cause or advance notice, for any reason or for no reason.  The Company and Executive wish to set forth the compensation and benefits which Executive shall be entitled to receive in the event that Executive's employment with the Company terminates under the circumstances described in Article II of this Agreement.
1.3         
 
The duties and obligations of the Company to Executive under this Agreement shall be in consideration for Executive's past services to the Company, Executive's continued employment with the Company, Executive's compliance with the obligations described in Section 4.2, and Executive's execution of the general waiver and release described in Section 4.3.   The Company and Executive agree that Executive's compliance with the obligations described in Section 4.2 and Executive's execution of the general waiver and release described in Section 4.3 are preconditions to Executive's entitlement to the receipt of benefits under this Agreement and that these benefits shall not be earned unless all such conditions have been satisfied through the scheduled date of payment.  The Company hereby declares that it has relied upon Executive's commitments under this Agreement to comply with the requirements of Article IV, and would not have been induced to enter into this Agreement or to execute this Agreement in the absence of such commitments.
1.4         
 
ARTICLE II.
 
TERMINATION EVENTS
 
.
2.1         
Involuntary Termination Upon or Following Change of Control
 
(a)           In the event Executive's employment with the Company and its subsidiaries is involuntarily terminated at any time by the Company without Cause either (i) at the time of or within twenty-four (24) months following the occurrence of a Change of Control, (ii) within three (3) months prior to a Change of Control, whether or not such termination is at the request of an "Acquiror", or (iii) at any time prior to a Change of Control, if such termination is at the request of an Acquiror, then, upon such Change of Control, such termination of employment will be a Termination Event and the Company shall pay Executive the compensation and benefits described in and at the times provided under Article III.   For all purposes of this Agreement the term "Acquiror" is either a person or a member of a group of related persons representing such group that in either case obtains effective control of the Company in the transaction or a group of related transactions constituting the Change of Control.
 
(b)           In the event Executive's employment with the Company and its subsidiaries is either involuntarily terminated by the Company with Cause at any time, or is involuntarily terminated by the Company without Cause at any time other than under the circumstances described in Section 2.1(a), then such termination of employment will be a Termination Event, Executive will be entitled to receive any payments or benefits under the provisions of this Agreement, and the Company will cease paying compensation or providing benefits to Executive as of Executive's termination date.
not
not
 
.
2.2         
Voluntary Termination Upon or Following Change of Control
 
(a)           Executive may voluntarily terminate his employment with the Company and its subsidiaries at any time.  In the event Executive voluntarily terminates his employment within three (3) months of the occurrence of an event constituting Good Reason and on account of an event constituting Good Reason, which event occurs either (i) at the time of or within twenty-four (24) months following the occurrence of a Change of Control, (ii) within three (3) months prior to a Change of Control, whether or not such termination is at the request of an Acquiror, or (iii) at any time prior to a Change of Control, if such triggering event or Executive's termination is at the request of an Acquiror, then, upon such Change of Control, such termination of employment will be a Termination Event and the Company shall pay Executive the compensation and benefits described in and at the times provided under Article III.
 
(b)           In the event (i) Executive voluntarily terminates his employment for any reason other than on account of an event constituting Good Reason under the circumstances described in Section 2.2(a), or (ii) Executive's employment terminates on account of either death or physical or mental disability, then such termination of employment will be a Termination Event, Executive will be entitled to receive any payments or benefits under the provisions of this Agreement, and the Company will cease paying compensation or providing benefits to Executive as of the Executive's termination date.
not
not
 
ARTICLE III.
COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS PAYABLE
 
.  If a Termination Event occurs, Executive shall be entitled to receive the benefits described in this Agreement so long as Executive complies with the restrictions and limitations set forth in Article IV; provided, further, that the Executive must execute the employee Release (as defined in Section 4.3); and the time period for revocation of such Release must have elapsed (an "Effective Release"), within sixty (60) days of the Termination Event which Release shall remain in effect at the time that the benefits of this Article III are paid.  If a Termination Event does not occur, Executive shall not be entitled to receive any benefits described in this Agreement, except as otherwise specifically set forth herein.
3.1         
Right to Benefits
 
.  Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, Executive shall receive one times the sum of Executive's Base Salary plus Target Bonus, less any applicable withholding of federal, state or local taxes Amounts to be paid under this section shall be paid in a lump sum no later than the later of thirty (30) days after the date of the Termination Event or the date of an Effective Release.
3.2         
Salary Continuation
 
.
3.3         
Health Insurance Coverage
 
Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, Executive shall be entitled to receive a equal to Forty-Thousand U.S. Dollars ($40,000) (the "Health Expense Benefit"). The purpose of the Health Expense Benefit is to assist Executive with healthcare expenses, including additional health plan premium payments that may result from . 
the occurrence of a Termination Event
Amounts to be paid under this section shall be paid in a lump sum no later than the later of thirty (30) days after the date of the Termination Event or the date of an Effective Release.
 
Health Expense Benefit.  This Section 3.3 does not affect the rights of Executive or Executive's covered dependents under any applicable law with respect to health insurance continuation coverage.
This Section 3.3 provides only for the Company's payment of the
 
.  Executive's stock options which are outstanding as of the date of the Termination Event (the "Stock Options") shall become fully vested upon the occurrence of the Termination Event and exercisable so long as Executive complies with the restrictions and limitations set forth in Article IV.  The maximum period of time during which the Stock Options shall remain exercisable, and all other terms and conditions of the Stock Options, shall be as specified in the relevant Stock Option agreements and relevant stock plans under which the Stock Option were granted.  The term "Stock Options" shall not include any rights of the Executive under the Company's employee stock purchase plan.
3.4         
Stock Award Acceleration
 
Executive's restricted stock awards that are outstanding as of the date of the Termination Event ("Restricted Stock") and that are not subject to performance-based vesting shall become fully vested and free from any contractual rights of the Company to repurchase or otherwise reacquire the Restricted Stock as a result of Executive's termination of employment.  All shares of Restricted Stock which have not yet been delivered to Executive or his designee
 
Executive's restricted stock awards that are subject to performance-based vesting shall be covered by the terms of the applicable award agreement.
(whether because subject to joint escrow instructions or otherwise) shall be delivered to Executive or his designee as soon as administratively feasible after the occurrence of a Termination Event. 
 
The treatment of Executive's other awards, if any, outstanding under the 1999 Stock Plan of the Company, or any successor plan thereto (together the "Stock Plan"), at the time of the Termination Event shall be governed by the respective award agreement.  This includes but is not limited to restricted stock units, awards under the long-term performance program, and includes awards made pursuant to the Stock Plan which may be settled in cash.
 
.  If a Termination Event occurs, Executive shall receive a pro-rated bonus under any bonus plan applicable to Executive, which is in place at the time of the Termination Event for the performance period in which the Termination Event occurs.  The amount of the bonus shall be calculated under the terms of such bonus program as established by the Company, including whether or not, or to what degree, any performance-based conditions have been met, and shall be equal to the amount of the bonus the Executive would have been paid under the terms of such bonus program had the Executive continued his employment with the Company until the end of such performance period multiplied by a fraction in which (i) the numerator is the number of days from and including the first day of the performance period until and including the date of the Termination Event, and (ii) the denominator is the number of days in the performance period.  Such bonus shall be paid on the date Executive would have received the bonus if the Termination Event had not occurred during such performance period; provided, however, that in any event such bonus will be paid no later than two and one-half (2 ) months after the end of the calendar year in which the Termination Event occurs.    Executive's rights to the payment provided in this Section 3.5 shall not be terminated by the application of Section 4.2 of this Agreement.  This Section 3.5  shall not apply to awards pursuant to the Stock Plan.
3.5         
Bonus
 
.  Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, Executive shall not be required to mitigate damages or the amount of any payment provided under this Agreement by seeking other employment or otherwise, nor shall the amount of any payment provided for under this Agreement be reduced by any compensation earned by Executive as a result of employment by another employer or by retirement benefits after the date of the Termination Event, or otherwise.
3.6         
Mitigation
 
.  In the event that (i) one or more payments of compensation or benefits received or to be received by Executive pursuant to this Agreement ("Agreement Payment") would constitute deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") and (ii)  Executive is deemed at the time of such termination of employment to be a "specified employee" under Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code, then such Payment shall not be made or commence until the earlier of (i) the expiration of the six (6)-month period measured from the date of Executive's "separation from service" (as such term is at the time defined in Treasury Regulations under Section 409A of the Code) with the Company or (ii) such earlier time permitted under Section 409A of the Code and the regulations or other authority promulgated thereunder; provided, however, that such deferral shall only be effected to the extent required to avoid adverse tax treatment to Executive under Section 409A of the Code, including (without limitation) the additional twenty percent (20%) tax for which Executive would otherwise be liable under
Compliance with Section 409A
3.7         
 
Section 409A(a)(1)(B) of the Code in the absence of such deferral.  During any period in which an Agreement Payment to Executive is deferred pursuant to the foregoing, Executive shall be entitled to interest on the deferred Agreement Payment at a per annum rate equal to the highest rate of interest applicable to six (6)-month non-callable certificates of deposit with daily compounding offered by the following institutions:  Citibank N.A., Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. or Bank of America, on the date of such separation from service. Upon the expiration of the applicable deferral period, any Agreement Payment which would have otherwise been made during that period (whether in a single sum or in installments) in the absence of this paragraph shall be paid to Executive or his beneficiary in one lump sum, including all accrued interest.
 
ARTICLE IV.
LIMITATIONS AND CONDITIONS ON BENEFITS; AMENDMENT OF AGREEMENT
 
.  The benefits provided under this Agreement are in lieu of any benefit provided under any other severance plan, program or arrangement of the Company in effect at the time of a Termination Event.  The Company shall withhold appropriate federal, state or local income, employment and other applicable taxes from any payments hereunder.
4.1         
Reduction in Payments and Benefits; Withholding Taxes
 
.
4.2         
Obligations of the Executive
 
(a)           For two years following the Termination Event, Executive agrees not to personally solicit any of the employees either of the Company or of any entity in which the Company directly or indirectly possesses the ability to determine the voting of 50% or more of the voting securities of such entity (including two-party joint ventures in which each party possesses 50% of the total voting power of the entity) to become employed elsewhere or provide the names of such employees to any other company which Executive has reason to believe will solicit such employees.
 
(b)           Following the occurrence of a Termination Event, Executive agrees to continue to satisfy his obligations under the terms of the Company's standard form of Proprietary Information and Non-Disclosure Agreement previously executed by Executive (or any comparable agreement subsequently executed by Executive in substitution or supplement thereto).  Executive's obligations under this Section 4.2(b) shall not be limited to the Term.
 
(c)           It is expressly understood and agreed that although Executive and the Company consider the restrictions contained in this Section 4 to be reasonable, if a final judicial determination is made by a court of competent jurisdiction that the time or territory or any other restriction contained in this Agreement is an unenforceable restriction against Executive, the provisions of this Agreement shall not be rendered void, but shall be deemed amended to apply as to such maximum time or territory and to such maximum extent as such court may judicially determine or indicate to be enforceable.  Alternatively, if any court of competent jurisdiction finds that any restriction contained in this Agreement is unenforceable, and such restriction cannot be amended so as to make it enforceable, such finding shall not affect the enforceability of any of the other restrictions contained herein.
 
(d)           Executive acknowledges and agrees that the Company's remedies at law for a breach or threatened breach of any of the provisions of Section 4.2(a) or Section 4.2(b) would be inadequate and, in recognition of this fact, Executive agrees that, in the event of such a breach or threatened breach, in addition to any remedies at law, the Company, without posting any bond, shall, with respect to a breach or threatened breach of Section 4.2(a) or Section 4.2(b) only, obtain equitable relief in the form of specific performance, temporary restraining order, temporary or permanent injunction, or any other equitable remedy which may then be available.
 
.  Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, and prior to the receipt of any benefits under this Agreement on account of the occurrence of a Termination Event, Executive shall, as of the date of a Termination Event, execute an employee release substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A ("Release") as shall be determined by the Company.  Such employee Release shall specifically relate to all of Executive's rights and claims in existence at the time of such execution relating to Executive's employment with the Company, but shall not include (i) Executive's rights under this Agreement; (ii) Executive's rights under any employee benefit plan sponsored by the Company; or (iii) Executive's rights to indemnification under the Company's bylaws or other governing instruments or under any agreement addressing such subject matter between Executive and the Company or under any merger or acquisition agreement addressing such subject matter; (iv) Executive's rights of insurance under any liability policy covering the Company's officers or (v) claims which Executive may not release as a matter of law, including, but not limited to, indemnification claims under applicable law.  It is understood that Executive has twenty-one (21) days after receipt of the form of Release from the Companyto consider whether to execute such employee Release and Executive may revoke such employee Release within seven (7) days after execution of such employee in the event that the Executive has not received a form of Release from the Company by the tenth (10) day following the Termination Event, the Executive may execute the form of Release attached hereto as Exhibit A and that shall be deemed acceptable to the Company.  In the event Executive does not execute such employee Release within the twenty-one (21) day period, or if Executive revokes such employee Release within the seven (7) day period, no benefits shall be payable under this Agreement and this Agreement shall be null and void.  Nothing in this Agreement shall limit the scope or time of applicability of such employee Release once it is executed and not timely revoked.
4.3         
Employee Release Prior to Receipt of Benefits
th
 
.
4.4         
Golden Parachute Payments
 
(a)           In the event that any payment received or to be received by Executive pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise but determined without regard to any additional payments required under this Section 4.4 ("Payment") would (i) constitute a "parachute payment" within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code and (ii) but for this subsection (a), be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code, or any comparable federal, state, local or foreign excise tax (such excise tax, together with any interest and penalties, is hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Excise Tax"), then, subject to the provisions of subsection (c) hereof, Executive shall be entitled to receive an additional payment from the Company (the "Gross-Up Payment") in such an amount that after the payment of all taxes (including without limitation, any interest and penalties on such taxes and the Excise Tax) on the Payment and on the Gross-Up Payment, Executive shall retain an amount equal to the Payment minus all applicable taxes on the Payment (excluding the Excise Tax).  Notwithstanding the foregoing,
 
Executive shall not be entitled to receive a Gross-Up Payment if (1) the Payments may be reduced by an amount sufficient to result in no portion of the Payment retained by Executive being subject to the Excise Tax ("Reduced Amount"), taking into account all applicable federal, state, local and foreign income, employment and other taxes and (2) after reducing the Payment by such Reduced Amount, Executive would receive, on a pre-tax basis, an amount not less than ninety percent (90%) of the value of the unreduced Payment on a pre-tax basis (the "Threshold Payment Level").  The intent of the parties is that if Executive is entitled to a Gross-Up Payment pursuant to this Section 4.4, the Company shall be solely responsible for, and shall pay, any Excise Tax on the Payment and the Gross-Up Payment and any income, employment and other taxes (including, without limitation, penalties and interest) imposed on any Gross-Up Payment. The Company shall be responsible for any loss of tax deduction that the Company has to forego caused by the Payment or the Gross-Up Payment.   Any Gross-up Payments pursuant to this Section 4.4 shall be paid not later than the end of the taxable year following the taxable year in which the determination under this Section 4.4 was made.
 
(b)           Unless the Company and the Executive otherwise agree in writing, any determination required under this Section 4.4, and the assumptions to be utilized in arriving at such determinations, shall be made in writing in good faith by independent tax counsel designated by the Company and reasonably acceptable to Executive ("Independent Tax Counsel").  For purposes of making the calculations required under this Section 4.4, Independent Tax Counsel may make reasonable assumptions and approximations concerning applicable taxes and may rely on reasonable, good faith interpretations concerning the application of Sections 280G and 4999 of the Code.  The Company and Executive shall furnish to Independent Tax Counsel such information and documents as Independent Tax Counsel may reasonably request in order to make a determination under this Section 4.4.  The Company shall bear all costs that Independent Tax Counsel may reasonably incur in connection with any calculations contemplated by this Section 4.4.
 
(c)           In the event that Executive is not entitled to the Gross-Up Payment pursuant to subsection (a) hereof and instead shall be entitled to receive the Payment reduced by the Reduced Amount ("Net Payment"), then based on the information provided to Executive and the Company by Independent Tax Counsel, Executive may, in the Executive's sole discretion and within 30 days of the date on which Executive is provided with the information prepared by Independent Tax Counsel, determine the composition of the Net Payment (as long as after such determination the value (as calculated by Independent Tax Counsel in accordance with the provisions of Sections 280G and 4999 of the Code) of the amounts selected by Executive hereunder equals the Net Payment).  If the Internal Revenue Service (the "IRS") determines the Net Payment is subject to the Excise Tax, then subsection (d) hereof shall apply, and the enforcement of subsection (d) shall be the exclusive remedy to the Company.
 
(d)           If, notwithstanding any reduction described in subsection (a) hereof, the IRS determines that Executive is liable for the Excise Tax as a result of the receipt of the Net Payment, then Executive shall be obligated to pay back to the Company, within 30 days after a final IRS determination, an amount equal to the "Repayment Amount."  The "Repayment Amount" shall be the smallest such amount of the Net Payment, if any, as shall be required to be paid to the Company so that none of the value retained by Executive from the Net Payment shall be subject to the Excise Tax.  Notwithstanding the preceding sentences of this subsection (d), if reduction of the Net Payment by the Repayment Amount would result in the receipt by the
 
Executive, on a pre-tax basis, of a portion of the Payment which is less than the Threshold Payment Level, then Executive shall not be obligated to pay any of the Repayment Amount, and instead Executive shall be entitled to receive from the Company the Reduced Amount as well as the full Gross-Up Payment, with the value of that portion of the Reduced Amount that would have originally been paid in the form of the equity securities of the Company now payable by delivery of marketable equity securities that are immediately saleable by Executive in the public securities market in which such securities are traded.
 
 (e) The elements of the Executive's Payments hereunder that constitute the "Reduced Amount" shall be chosen as follows, but only if necessary to avoid the application of Section  409A of the Code:  any reduction will first be made by reducing any cash payments due hereunder subject to Section  409A of the Code; second by any cash payments due hereunder not subject to Section 409A of the Code; third by any equity vesting or payments due hereunder subject to Section  409A of the Code; and lastly by any equity vesting or payments due hereunder not subject to Section  409A of the Code.
 
.  The Company may make amendments to this Agreement without the consent of the Executive which are non-material and which are not adverse to the Executive to the extent necessary or advisable to comply with laws.  Any other changes to or, terminations of this Agreement may be made only upon the mutual written consent of the Company and Executive; provided, however, that only prior to the Section 1.2 Date, the Company may unilaterally terminate this Agreement following eighteen (18) months' prior written notice to Executive, and on or following the Section 1.2 Date this Agreement may not be terminated.   If the Company makes any changes to this Agreement pursuant to the first sentence of this Section 4.5 it shall provide prompt written notice and a copy of such change to the Executive.
4.5         
Amendment or Termination of This Agreement
 
ARTICLE V.
OTHER RIGHTS AND BENEFITS NOT AFFECTED
 
.  Nothing in the Agreement shall prevent or limit Executive's continuing or future participation in any benefit, bonus, incentive or other plans, programs, policies or practices provided by the Company and for which Executive may otherwise qualify, nor shall anything herein limit or otherwise affect such rights as Executive may have under any stock option or other agreements with the Company; , , that in accordance with Section 4.1, any benefits provided hereunder shall be in lieu of any other severance benefits to which Executive may otherwise be entitled, including without limitation, under any employment contract or severance plan.  Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, amounts which are vested benefits or which Executive is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan, policy, practice or program of the Company at or subsequent to the date of a Termination Event shall be payable in accordance with such plan, policy, practice or program.
5.1         
Nonexclusivity
provided
however
 
.  This Agreement does not constitute a contract of employment or impose on Executive any obligation to remain as an employee, or impose on the Company any obligation (i) to retain Executive as an employee, (ii) to change the status of
5.2         
Employment Status
 
Executive as an at-will employee, or (iii) to change the Company's policies regarding termination or alteration of employment.
 
ARTICLE VI.
NON-ALIENATION OF BENEFITS
 
No benefit hereunder shall be subject to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge, and any attempt to do so shall be void.
 
ARTICLE VII.
DEFINITIONS
 
For purposes of the Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
 
"" means this Change of Control Severance Agreement.
7.1         
Agreement
 
" means Executive's annual salary (excluding bonus, any other incentive or other payments and stock option exercises) from the Company at the time of the occurrence of the Change of Control or a Termination Event, whichever is greater.
7.2         
Base Salary"
 
"" means misconduct, including but not limited to: (i) conviction of any felony or any crime involving moral turpitude or dishonesty which has a material adverse effect on the Company's business or reputation; (ii) repeated unexplained or unjustified absences from the Company; (iii) refusal or willful failure to act in accordance with any specific lawful direction or order of the Company or stated written policy of the Company which has a material adverse effect on the Company's business or reputation; (iv) a material and willful violation of any state or federal law which if made public would materially injure the business or reputation of the Company as reasonably determined by the Board; (v) participation in a fraud or act of dishonesty against the Company which has a material adverse effect on the Company's business or reputation; (vi) conduct by Executive which the Board determines demonstrates gross unfitness to serve; or (vii) intentional, material violation by Executive of any contract between Executive and the Company or any statutory duty of Executive to the Company that is not corrected within thirty (30) days after written notice to Executive thereof.   Whether or not the actions or omissions of Executive constitute "Cause" within the meaning of this Section 7.3 shall be decided by the Board based upon a reasonable good faith investigation and determination.  Physical or mental disability shall not constitute "Cause."
7.3         
Cause
 
"" means the occurrence of any of the following events:
7.4         
Change of Control
 
(i)    The sale, exchange, lease or other disposition or transfer of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Company to a person or group (as such terms are defined or described in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) which will continue the business of the Company in the future; or
 
(ii)   A merger or consolidation involving the Company in which the shareholders of the Company immediately prior to such merger or consolidation are not the beneficial owners
(within the meaning of Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of more than 75% of the total voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the corporation resulting from such transaction in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of the total voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the Company immediately prior to such merger or consolidation; or
 
(iii)          The acquisition of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of at least 25% of the total voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the Company by a person or group (as such terms are defined or described in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act).
 
"" means Agilent Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and any successor thereto.
7.5         
Company
 
"" means (i) a more than $10,000 reduction of Executive's rate of compensation as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Date of this Agreement or in effect immediately prior to the occurrence of a Change of Control, whichever is greater, other than reductions in Base Salary that apply broadly to employees of the Company or reductions due to varying metrics and achievement of performance goals for different periods under variable pay programs; (ii) either (A) failure to provide a package of benefits which, taken as a whole, provides substantially similar benefits to those in which the Executive is entitled to participate immediately prior to the occurrence of the Change of Control (except that employee contributions may be raised to the extent of any cost increases imposed by third parties) or (B) any action by the Company which would significantly and adversely affect Executive's participation or reduce Executive's benefits under any of such plans in existence the day prior to the Change of Control, other than changes that apply broadly to employees of the Company; (iii) change in Executive's duties, responsibilities, authority, job title, or reporting relationships resulting in a significant diminution of position, excluding for this purpose an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent action not taken in bad faith which is remedied by the Company within thirty (30) days after notice thereof is given by Executive; (iv) request that Executive relocate to a worksite that is more than 35 miles from his prior worksite, unless Executive accepts such relocation opportunity; (v) failure or refusal of a successor to the Company to assume the Company's obligations under this Agreement, as provided in Section 8.7; or (vi) material breach by the Company or any successor to the Company of any of the material provisions of this Agreement.  For purposes of clause (iii) of the immediately preceding sentence, Executive's duties, responsibilities, authority, job title or reporting relationships shall not be considered to be significantly diminished (and therefore shall not constitute "Good Reason") so long as Executive continues to perform substantially the same functional role for the Company as Executive performed immediately prior to the occurrence of the Change of Control, even if the Company becomes a subsidiary or division of another entity.
7.6         
Good Reason
 
"" means that amount (expressed as a percentage of Executive's Base Salary) equal to Executive's "target bonus" as defined under the Company's Performance-Based Compensation Plan for Covered Employees (or the comparable term or standard under the Company's cash incentive plan in effect at the time of Executive's Termination Event if the Performance-Based Compensation Plan for Covered Employees is no longer in effect at such time) as set for the Executive by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors or other
7.7         
Target Bonus
 
authorized body, covering the twelve-month period ending at the end of the performance period during which the Executive's Termination Event occurs.
 
"" means an involuntary termination of employment described in Section 2.1(a) or a voluntary termination of employment described in Section 2.2(a).
7.8         
Termination Event
 
Termination of employment  for purposed of this Agreement means a separation from service within the meaning of Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h).  The Executive shall not be deemed to have separated from service if the Executive continues to provide services to the Company at an annual rate that is fifty percent or more of the services rendered, on average, during the immediately preceding three full years of employment with the Company (or if employed by the Company less than three years, such lesser period); provided, however, that a separation from service will be deemed to have occurred if the Executive service with the Company is reduced to an annual rate that is less than twenty percent of the services rendered, on average, during the immediately preceding three full years of employment with the Company (or if employed by the Company less than three years, such lesser period). For purposes of this Section 7.9 only and for determining whether a Executive has experienced a separation from service, the "Company" shall mean the Company and its affiliates that are treated as a single employer under section 414(b) or (c) of the Code.
7.9         
 
ARTICLE VIII.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
 
.  Any notices provided hereunder must be in writing and such notices or any other written communication shall be deemed effective upon the earlier of personal delivery (including personal delivery by telex or facsimile) or the third day after mailing by first class mail, to the Company at its primary office location and to Executive at Executive's address as listed in the Company's payroll records.  Any payments made by the Company to Executive under the terms of this Agreement shall be delivered to Executive either in person or at such address as listed in the Company's payroll records.
8.1         
Notices
 
.  It is the intent of the parties to this Agreement that whenever possible, each provision of this Agreement will be interpreted in such manner as to be effective and valid under applicable law, but if any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect under any applicable law or rule in any jurisdiction, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability will not affect any other provision or any other jurisdiction, but this Agreement will be reformed, construed and enforced in such jurisdiction as if such invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions had never been contained herein.
8.2         
Severability
 
.  If either party should waive any breach of any provisions of this Agreement, that party shall not thereby be deemed to have waived any preceding or succeeding breach of the same or any other provision of this Agreement.
8.3         
Waiver
 
.  This Agreement, including Exhibit A, constitutes the entire agreement between Executive and the Company and it is the complete, final, and exclusive
8.4         
Complete Agreement
embodiment of their agreement with regard to this subject matter.  It is entered into without reliance on any promise or representation other than those expressly contained herein.
 
.  This Agreement may be executed in separate counterparts, any one of which need not contain signatures of more than one party, but all of which taken together will constitute one and the same Agreement.
8.5         
Counterparts
 
.  The headings of the Articles and Sections hereof are inserted for convenience only and shall neither be deemed to constitute a part hereof nor to affect the meaning thereof.
8.6         
Headings
 
.  This Agreement is intended to bind and inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by Executive and the Company, and their respective successors, assigns, heirs, executors and administrators, except that Executive may not delegate any of Executive's duties hereunder and may not assign any of Executive's rights hereunder without the written consent of the Company, which consent shall not be withheld unreasonably.  Any successor to the Company (whether direct or indirect and whether by purchase, merger, consolidation, liquidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the Company's business and/or assets shall assume the Company's obligations under this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent as the Company would be required to perform such obligations in the absence of a succession.  For all purposes under this Agreement, the term "Company" shall include any successor to the Company's business and/or assets, whether or not such successor executes and delivers an assumption agreement referred to in the preceding sentence or becomes bound by the terms of this Agreement by operation of law or otherwise.
8.7         
Successors and Assigns
 
.  If either party hereto brings any action to enforce such party's rights hereunder, the prevailing party in any such action shall be entitled to recover such party's reasonable attorneys' fees and costs incurred in connection with such action.
8.8         
Attorney Fees
 
.  In order to ensure rapid and economical resolution of any dispute which may arise under this Agreement, Executive and the Company agree that any and all disputes or controversies, arising from or regarding the interpretation, performance, enforcement or termination of this Agreement shall submitted to JAMS for non-binding mediation.  If complete agreement cannot be reached within 60 days after the date of submission to mediation, any remaining issues will be submitted to JAMS to be resolved by final and binding arbitration under the JAMS Arbitration Rules and Procedures for Employment Disputes.  The reference to JAMS shall refer to any successor to JAMS, if applicable.  .
8.9         
Arbitration
BY ENTERING INTO THIS AGREEMENT, THE COMPANY AND EXECUTIVE ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THEY ARE WAIVING THEIR RIGHT TO JURY TRIAL OF ANY DISPUTE COVERED BY THIS AGREEMENT
 
.  All questions concerning the construction, validity and interpretation of this Agreement will be governed by the law of the State of California.
8.10       
Choice of Law
 
.  In the event of a conflict between the text of the Agreement and any summary, description or other information regarding the Agreement, the text of the Agreement shall control.
8.11       
Construction of Agreement
 
, the parties have executed this Agreement effective on the day and year written above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 
 
 
Exhibit A: Employee General Release
 
CONFIDENTIAL
 
Exhibit A
 
GENERAL RELEASE AND AGREEMENT
 
This General Release and Agreement (the "Agreement") is made and entered into by
                                                                           ("Executive").  The Agreement is part of an agreement between Executive and Agilent Technologies, Inc. ("Agilent') to terminate Executive's employment with Agilent on terms that are satisfactory both to Agilent and to Executive.  Therefore, Executive agrees as follows:
 
1.
                                      
Executive agrees to attend a Functional Exit Interview on                                 , 20       at which time all company property and identification will be turned in and the appropriate personnel documents will be executed.  Thereafter, Executive agrees to do such other acts as may be reasonably requested by Agilent in order to effectuate the terms of this agreement.  Executive agrees to remove all personal effects from his current office within seven days of signing this agreement and in any event not later than                           , 20      .
 
2.
                                      
Executive agrees not to make any public statement or statements to the press concerning Agilent, its business objectives, its management practices, or other sensitive information without first receiving Agilent's written approval.  Executive further agrees to take no action which would cause Agilent or its employees or agents any embarrassment or humiliation or otherwise cause or contribute to Agilent's or any such person's being held in disrepute by the general public or Agilent's employees, clients, or customers.
 
3.
                                   
Executive, on behalf of Executive's heirs, estate, executors, administrators, successors and assigns does fully release, discharge, and agree to hold harmless Agilent, its officers, agents, employees, attorneys, subsidiaries, affiliated companies, successors and assigns from all actions, causes of action, claims, judgments, obligations, damages, liabilities, costs, or expense of whatsoever kind and character which he may have, ;
including but not limited to
 
a.
                                      
any claims relating to employment discrimination on account of race, sex, age, national origin, creed, disability, or other basis, whether or not arising under the Federal Civil Rights Acts, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, California Fair Employment and Housing Act, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Americans With Disabilities Act, any amendments to the foregoing laws, or any other federal, state, county, municipal, or other law, statute, regulation or order relating to employment discrimination;
 
b.
                                     
any claims relating to pay or leave of absence arising under the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Family Medical Leave Act, and any similar laws enacted in California;
 
c.
                                      
any claims for reemployment, salary, wages, bonuses, vacation pay, stock options, acquired rights, appreciation from stock options, stock appreciation rights, benefits or other compensation of any kind;
 
d.
                                     
any claims relating to, arising out of, or connected with Executive's employment with Agilent, whether or not the same be based upon any alleged violation of public policy; compliance (or lack thereof) with any internal Agilent policy, procedure, practice or guideline; or any oral, written. express, and/or implied employment contract or agreement, or the breach of any terms thereof, including but not limited to, any implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; or any federal, state, county or municipal law, statute, regulation, or order whether or not relating to labor or employment;
and
 
e.
                                
any claims relating to, arising out of, or connected with any other matter or event occurring prior to the execution of this Agreement whether or not brought before any judicial, administrative, or other tribunal.
 
The foregoing release shall not apply to (i) Executive's rights under the Amended and Restated Change of Control Severance Agreement between Executive and the Company; (ii) Executive's rights under any employee benefit plan sponsored by the Company; (iii) Executive's rights to indemnification under the Company's bylaws or other governing instruments or under any agreement addressing such subject matter between Executive and the Company or under any merger or acquisition agreement addressing such subject matter; (iv) Executive's rights of insurance under any liability policy covering the Company's officers or (v) claims which Executive may not release as a matter of law, including, but not limited to, indemnification claims under applicable law.
 
4.
                                   
Executive represents and warrants that Executive has not assigned any such claim or authorized any other person or entity to assert such claim on Executive's behalf.  Further, Executive agrees that under this Agreement Executive waives any claim for damages incurred at any time in the future because of alleged continuing effects of past wrongful conduct involving any such claims and any right to sue for injunctive relief against the alleged continuing effects of past wrongful conduct involving such claims.
 
5.
                                   
In entering into this Agreement, the parties have intended that this Agreement be a full and final settlement of all matters, whether or not presently disputed, that could have arisen between them.
 
6.
                                   
Executive understands and expressly agrees that this Agreement extends to all claims of every nature and kind whatsoever, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, past or present and all rights under Section 1542 of the California Civil Code and/or any similar statute or law or any other jurisdiction are hereby expressly waived. 
Such section reads as follows:
 
"Section 1542.  A general release does not extend to claims which the creditor does not know or suspect to exist in his favor at the time of executing the release, which if known by him must have materially affected his settlement with the debtor."
 
7.
                                      
It is expressly agreed that the claims released pursuant to this Agreement include all claims against individual employees of Agilent, whether or not such employees were acting within the course and scope of their employment.
 
8.
                                      
Executive understands and agrees that, as a condition of this Agreement, Executive shall not be entitled to any employment (including employment as an independent contractor or otherwise) with Agilent, its subsidiaries or related companies, or any successor, and Executive hereby waives any right, or alleged right, of employment or re-employment with Agilent.  Executive further agrees not to apply for employment with Agilent in the future and not to institute or join any action, lawsuit or proceeding against Agilent, its subsidiaries, related companies or successors for any failure to employ Executive.  In the event Executive should secure such employment, it is agreed that such employment is voidable without cause in the sole discretion of Agilent.  After terminating Executive's employment, should Executive become employed by another company which Agilent merges with or acquires after the date of this Agreement, Executive may continue such employment only if Agilent makes offers of employment to all employees of the acquired or merged company.
 
9.
                                      
Executive agrees that the terms, amount and fact of settlement shall be confidential until Agilent Technologies needs to make any required disclosure of any agreements between Agilent and Executive.  Therefore, except as may be necessary to enforce the rights contained herein in an appropriate legal proceeding or as may be necessary to receive professional services from, an attorney, accountant, or other professional adviser in order for such adviser to render professional services, Executive agrees not to disclose any information concerning these arrangements to anyone, including, but not limited to, past, present and future employees of Agilent, until such time of the public filings.
 
10.
          
At Agilent's request, Executive shall cooperate fully in connection with any legal matter, proceeding or action relating to Agilent.
 
11.
          
The terms of this Agreement are intended by the parties as a final expression of their agreement with respect to such terms as are included in this Agreement and may not be contradicted by evidence of any prior or contemporaneous agreement.  The parties further intend that this Agreement constitutes the complete and exclusive statement of its terms and that no extrinsic evidence whatsoever may be introduced in any judicial or other proceeding, if any, involving this Agreement.  No modification of this Agreement shall be effective unless in writing and signed by both parties hereto.
 
12.
          
It is further expressly agreed and understood that Executive has not relied upon any advice from Agilent Technologies, Inc. and/or its attorneys whatsoever as to the taxability, whether pursuant to federal, state, or local income tax statutes or regulations or otherwise, of the payments made hereunder and that Executive will be solely liable for all tax obligations, if any, arising from payment of the sums specified herein and shall hold Agilent Technologies, Inc. harmless from any tax obligations arising from said payment.
 
13.
          
If there is any dispute arising out of or related to this Agreement, which cannot be settled by good faith negotiation between the parties, such dispute will be submitted to JAMS for non-binding mediation.  If complete agreement cannot be reached within 60 days of
 
submission to mediation, any remaining issues will be submitted to JAMS for final and binding arbitration pursuant to JAMS Arbitration Rules and Procedures for Employment Disputes.  The reference to JAMS shall refer to any successor to JAMS, if applicable. 
BY ENTERING INTO THIS AGREEMENT, EXECUTIVE ACKNOWLEDGES THAT EXECUTIVE IS WAIVING EXECUTIVE'S RIGHT TO JURY TRIAL OF ANY DISPUTE COVERED BY THIS AGREEMENT.
 
14.         
The following notice is provided in accordance with the provisions of Federal Law:
 
You have up to twenty-one days (21) days from the date this General Release and Agreement is given to you in which to accept its terms, although you may accept it any time within those twenty-one (21) days.  You are advised to consult with an attorney regarding this Agreement.  You have the right to revoke your acceptance of this Agreement at any time within seven (7) days from the date you sign it, and this Agreement will not become effective and enforceable until this seven (7) day revocation period has expired.  To revoke your acceptance, you must send a written notice of revocation to Agilent Technologies, Inc., Attention: Senior Vice President and General Counsel located at 5301 Stevens Creek Boulevard, MS 1A-11, Santa Clara, CA            by 5:00 p.m. on or before the seventh day after you sign this Agreement.
 
EXECUTIVE FURTHER STATES THAT EXECUTIVE HAS HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO CONSULT WITH THE ATTORNEY OF EXECUTIVE'S CHOICE, THAT EXECUTIVE HAS CAREFULLY READ THIS AGREEMENT, THAT EXECUTIVE HAS HAD AMPLE TIME TO REFLECT UPON AND CONSIDER ITS CONSEQUENCES, THAT EXECUTIVE FULLY UNDERSTANDS ITS FINAL AND BINDING EFFECT, THAT THE ONLY PROMISES MADE TO EXECUTIVE TO SIGN THIS AGREEMENT ARE THOSE STATED ABOVE OR IN THAT CHANGE OF CONTROL SEVERANCE AGREEMENT BETWEEN AGILENT AND EXECUTIVE, AND THAT EXECUTIVE IS SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT VOLUNTARILY.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been executed in duplicate originals on the dates indicated below, and shall become effective as indicated above.
 
 
EXECUTIVE
 


