FILE:A/A-8K-20090217161049.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Cost Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
The information in this Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto is furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
February 17, 2009, Agilent Technologies, Inc. (the "Company") issued its press release announcing financial results for the first fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2009.  A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
On
 
We provide non-GAAP financial information in order to provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance and to enhance our investors' overall understanding of our core current financial performance and our prospects for the future.  We believe that our investors benefit from seeing our results "through the eyes" of management in addition to the GAAP presentation.  Management measures segment and enterprise performance using measures such as those that are disclosed in this release.  This information facilitates management's internal comparisons to the Company's historical operating results and comparisons to competitors' operating results.  Non-GAAP information allows for greater transparency to supplemental information used by management in its financial and operations decision making.  Historically, we have reported similar non-GAAP information to our investors and believe that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting.
 
This information is not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  It excludes items, such as restructuring and amortization, that may have a material effect on the Company's expenses and earnings per share calculated in accordance with GAAP.  Management monitors these items to ensure that expenses are in line with expectations and that our GAAP results are correctly stated but does not use them to measure the ongoing operating performance of the Company.  The non-GAAP information we provide may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
 
Additional explanation of non-GAAP information is provided in Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
On December 17, 2008, Agilent Technologies, Inc. filed a Current Report on Form 8-K disclosing the approval of a targeted restructuring program (the "Original Restructuring Program").  On February 17, 2009, Agilent announced to its employees a revised restructuring plan, which includes actions to (1) exit the inspection businesses in its Semiconductor and Board Test segment, including the automated optical inspection and automated X-ray inspection businesses and (2) restructure its global infrastructure organization, in response to the continuing deterioration of economic conditions (the "Additional Actions").  The actions under the Original Restructuring Program and the Additional Actions (together, the "Restructuring Program") are part of a series of actions being taken by Agilent in response to the current economic situation.
Agilent expects that the Additional Actions will further reduce its global workforce of regular employees by approximately 600 positions, bringing the total headcount reductions under the Restructuring Program to approximately 1,100 people.  The timing and scope of workforce reductions will vary by location based on local legal requirements.  We expect to complete most of these activities related to the Restructuring Program by July 31, 2009, with the remainder expected to be completed by October 31, 2009.
 
In connection with the Additional Actions, we expect to record pre-tax restructuring and other charges in the aggregate of approximately $40 million related to employee severance arrangements, approximately $22 million related to excess inventory charges and approximately $38 million related to other charges, including, but not limited to, costs related to existing lease agreements and contract termination costs (incremental to the Original Restructuring Program).  We expect that substantially all of these charges will result in cash expenditures.
 
In connection with the Restructuring Plan (including the amounts due to the Additional Actions), we now expect to record in the aggregate approximately $155 million in pre-tax restructuring and other related charges.  We expect that substantially all of these charges will result in cash expenditures.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This Item 2.05 contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is subject to the safe harbors created therein. The forward-looking statements relate to our planned restructuring activities and include our current estimates of the scope, timing and cost of those activities. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause Agilent's results to differ materially from management's current expectations. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the risk of additional costs and delays associated with compliance with U.S. and international labor and other laws, the risk that a further decline in general economic conditions and the global credit and equity markets or unforeseen changes in the strength of our customers' businesses and demand for current and new products and technologies will require changes to the planned restructuring, and the risk that we are not able to realize the savings expected from the restructuring activities.
 
In addition, other risks that Agilent faces in running its operations include the ability to execute successfully through business cycles while it continues to implement cost reductions; the ability to meet and achieve the benefits of its cost-reduction goals and otherwise successfully adapt its cost structures to continuing changes in business conditions; ongoing competitive, pricing and gross-margin pressures; the risk that our cost-cutting initiatives will impair our ability to develop products and remain competitive and to operate effectively; the impact of geopolitical uncertainties and global economic conditions on our operations, our markets and our ability to conduct business; the ability to improve asset performance to adapt to changes in demand; the ability to successfully introduce new products at the right time, price and mix; and other risks detailed in Agilent's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2008.  Forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of Agilent's management and on currently available information. Agilent undertakes no responsibility to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.
 
The following is furnished as an exhibit to this report and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended:
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
Date:  February 17, 2009
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
EDITORIAL CONTACTS:
 
Amy Flores
+1 408 345 8194
amy_flores@agilent.com
 
Jorgen Tesselaar (Europe and Asia)
+31 20 547 2825
jorgen_tesselaar@agilent.com
 
INVESTOR CONTACT:
 
Rodney Gonsalves
+1 408 345 8948
rodney_gonsalves@agilent.com
 
Highlights:
 
                 
GAAP net income of $64 million, down 47 percent from one year ago
                 
Non-GAAP earnings of $0.20 per share, down 44 percent from last year
(1)
                 
Positive operating cash flow of $17 million in seasonally weak quarter
                 
Revenue of $1.17 billion, down 16 percent from last year, orders down 20 percent from one year earlier
                 
Additional restructuring to result in annual savings of $150 million, with charges of $100 million and headcount reductions of about 600
                 
Second quarter revenue and non-GAAP earnings expected to be roughly in line with first quarter results
 
SANTA CLARA, Calif., Feb. 17, 2009  Agilent Technologies Inc. (NYSE: A) today reported revenues of $1.17 billion for the first fiscal quarter ended Jan. 31, 2009, 16 percent below one year ago.  First quarter GAAP net income was $64 million, or $0.18 per diluted share. Last year's first quarter GAAP net income was $120 million, or $0.31 per share.
During the first quarter, Agilent had restructuring and asset impairment charges of $56 million, and $12 million of non-cash amortization.  It also recognized $56 million of tax benefits, and had $4 million of other net gains.  Excluding these items, Agilent reported first quarter adjusted net income of $72 million, or $0.20 per share.  On a comparable basis, the company earned $136 million, or $0.36 per share, one year ago.
 
"In the first quarter, Agilent felt the full brunt of the severe, worldwide economic downturn," said Bill Sullivan, Agilent president and chief executive officer. "Revenues were well below our earlier expectations, and down 16 percent from one year ago.  We moved quickly to minimize the impact of this unexpected weakness, and delivered operating results consistent with Agilent's operating model.  But, operating earnings per share of $0.20 were also well below our earlier expectations due to lower activity levels."
 
Agilent's first quarter revenues were down $227 million from one year ago, while operating profits were down only $69 million due to aggressive actions taken by the company to reduce operating costs across all operations and functions.
 
Revenues were down across the globe, with the Americas off 10 percent, Europe off 21 percent, and Asia down 18 percent from one year ago.  By segment, Semiconductor and Board Test was the hardest hit, off 49 percent from last year, while Electronic Measurement was down 23 percent and Bio-Analytical Measurement revenues were off 1 percent.
 
First quarter Return on Invested Capital
(2)
 
fell to 11 percent compared to 19 percent one year ago because of lower earnings.  Net working capital was reduced by $68 million from last year, and cash generated from operations during the seasonally weak first quarter was $17 million  slightly ahead of last year's first quarter performance despite sharply lower earnings.  During the period, the company repurchased $125 million of its common stock and ended the quarter with net cash of $852 million.
Looking ahead, Sullivan noted that the current global downturn is likely to be the most severe seen in the past 70 years.  Said Sullivan, "We don't know where, or when, this recession will bottom.  But, we will remain proactive in addressing the economic challenges we face, and we are committed to delivering  performance consistent with Agilent's operating model."
 
"In December, we announced targeted operational restructuring with annualized savings of $65 million.  Additionally, Agilent will immediately shut two small board-inspection businesses and begin a restructuring of its global infrastructure operations.  We expect this program, when fully implemented, to reduce ongoing operating costs by $150 million."  The company said the cost of this program is expected to be in the range of $100 million and would result in about 600 headcount reductions.
 
Addressing second quarter performance expectations, Sullivan said, "Forecasting in the current environment is almost futile, as visibility is virtually nil.  Our current best guess is that second quarter revenues and operating earnings
(3)
, which are normally seasonally stronger, will be roughly in line with first quarter results.
 
"Regardless of the economic environment, our commitment is to remain cash flow positive, to keep employees focused on customers, products and technologies, and to create value for our customers as the world's premier measurement company."
 
Segment Results
 
Bio-Analytical Measurement
($ millions except where noted)
 
Bio-Analytical Measurement's nearly three-year record of double-digit orders growth came to an end in the first quarter, with orders of $523 million down 2 percent from one year ago.  Revenues of $525 million were down 1 percent from last year, with both Life Sciences and Chemical Analysis revenues off 1 percent.
 
Geographically, weakness was most pronounced in Europe, which was off 11 percent from last year.  Revenue in the Americas was up 1 percent, while Asia was up 10 percent from one year ago, with particular strength continuing in China.  By product platform, Gas (GC) and Liquid Chromatography (LC) were both weaker, while both microarrays and Liquid Chromatography / Mass Spectrometry (LC/MS) were up double digits from last year.
 
Life Sciences revenues of $238 million were down 1 percent from one year ago.  Spending by Pharma and Biotech customers was down 8 percent, with weakness in replacement business while consumables and services remained steady.  Sales to the academic and government markets continued strong, 20 percent above one year ago, with particular strength in microarrays and LC/MS systems.
 
Chemical Analysis revenues of $287 million were down 1 percent from last year.  Sustained strength in food safety, up 13 percent, and steady petrochemical, up 1 percent, was offset by weakness in environmental and forensics markets.  From a platform perspective, demand was weak for GCs and relatively strong for LC/MS systems.
 
First quarter segment income from operations of $101 million was $14 million above last year's results despite a $6 million decline in revenues.  Gross margins were up about 2 points from last year, while operating margins, at 19 percent, were nearly 3 points higher than one year ago. Segment Return On Invested Capital
(2)
 
improved 1 point to 25 percent.
Electronic Measurement
($ millions except where noted)
 
 
First quarter Electronic Measurement orders of $560 million were 28 percent below last year, while revenues of $596 million were off 23 percent from one year ago.  Market weakness was widespread, with both General Purpose and Communications Test down 23 percent.  Geographically, Europe was off 26 percent and Asia was down 29 percent, while revenue in the Americas was 15 percent below last year.  More generally, demand from large multinationals was particularly weak.
 
General Purpose Test revenues of $337 million were down 23 percent from last year.  Aerospace / defense was off 11 percent from last year, with relative strength in China and stability in the U.S. more than offset by weakness in Europe and Japan.  Other general purpose markets were off 30 percent from last year due to weakness in electronics and other manufacturing markets.  Communications Test revenue of $259 million was down 23 percent, and was marked by double-digit declines across all end markets.
 
First quarter segment income from operations of $7 million was down $70 million from last year on a $177 million decline in revenues, or a 40 percent decremental. Gross margins fell by 2 points from last year, while operating expenses were $49 million below last year.  Operating margins fell 9 points to 1 percent.  Segment ROIC
(2)
 
fell 16 points to 3 percent, driven by lower profitability and relatively flat invested capital.
Semiconductor and Board Test
($ millions except where noted)
 
 
Agilent is exiting the Automated Optical Inspection and Automated X-ray Inspection product lines of the Semiconductor and Board Test segment because they will not be able to achieve results consistent with Agilent's operating model in the foreseeable future.  The company earlier this quarter announced a focused restructuring of this segment to address the severe decline in business conditions, which continued through the first quarter of 2009.
 
Segment orders of $32 million were down 66 percent from last year as customer capital spending in all markets and geographies remains frozen.  Revenues of $45 million were off 49 percent from one year ago.  Europe was weakest, down 68 percent, the Americas declined 46 percent, and Asia was off 39 percent from last year.
 
First quarter segment loss from operations of $13 million was down $16 million from last year on a $44 million decline in revenues, or a 36 percent decremental.  Gross margins fell 13 points due to the drop in volumes, while operating expenses declined by $12 million from last year.  Segment ROIC
(2)
 
fell 15 points to (12) percent.
 
About Agilent Technologies
 
Agilent Technologies Inc.
(NYSE: A) is the world's premier measurement company and a technology leader in communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis. The company's 19,000 employees serve customers in more than 110 countries. Agilent had net revenues of $5.8 billion in fiscal 2008. Information about Agilent is available on the Web at www.agilent.com.
Agilent's management will present more details on its first quarter FY2009 financial results on a conference call with investors beginning today at 1:45 p.m. (Pacific). This event will be webcast live in listen-only mode. Listeners may log on at www.investor.agilent.com and select "Q1 2009 Agilent Technologies Inc. Earnings Conference Call" in the "News & Events  Calendar of Events" section. The webcast will remain available on the company's Web site for 90 days.
 
A telephone replay of the conference call will be available from 5:45 p.m. (Pacific) today through March 4, 2009. The replay number is +1 888 286-8010; international callers may dial +1 617 801-6888. The passcode is 36814874.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is subject to the safe harbors created therein. The forward-looking statements contained herein include, but are not limited to, information regarding Agilent's future revenues, earnings and profitability; the future demand for the Company's products and services, guidance for the fiscal second quarter, and our planned restructuring activities, including our current estimates of the scope, timing and cost of those activities. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause Agilent's results to differ materially from management's current expectations. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, unforeseen changes in the strength of our customers' businesses, unforeseen changes in the demand for current and new products and technologies, the risk of additional costs and delays associated with compliance with U.S. and international labor and other laws associated with our planned restructuring activities, the risk that a further decline in general economic conditions and the global credit and equity markets will require changes to the planned restructuring, and the risk that we are not able to realize the savings expected from the restructuring activities.
 
In addition, other risks that Agilent faces in running its operations include the ability to execute successfully through business cycles while it continues to implement cost reductions; the ability to meet and achieve the benefits of its cost-reduction goals and otherwise successfully adapt its cost structures to continuing changes in business conditions; ongoing competitive, pricing and gross-margin pressures; the risk that our cost-cutting initiatives will impair our ability to develop
products and remain competitive and to operate effectively; the impact of geopolitical uncertainties and global economic conditions on our operations, our markets and our ability to conduct business; the ability to improve asset performance to adapt to changes in demand; the ability to successfully introduce new products at the right time, price and mix; and other risks detailed in Agilent's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2008. Forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of Agilent's management and on currently available information. Agilent undertakes no responsibility to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.
 
 
(1)
 
Adjusted net income and adjusted net income per share are non-GAAP measures. Each of these measures is defined to exclude primarily the impacts of restructuring and asset impairment charges, business separation costs, non-cash intangibles amortization as well as gains and losses from the sale of investments and disposals of businesses net of their tax effects. A reconciliation between adjusted net income and GAAP net income is set forth on page 4 of the attached tables along with additional information regarding the use of this non-GAAP measure.
 
(2)
 Return On Invested Capital is a non-GAAP measure and is defined as income (loss) from operations less other (income) expense and taxes, annualized, divided by the average of the two most recent quarter-end balances of assets less net current liabilities. The reconciliation of ROIC can be found on page 5 of the attached tables, along with additional information regarding the use of this non-GAAP measure.
 
(3)
 Adjusted net income per share as projected for Q209 is a non-GAAP measure which excludes primarily the impacts of future restructuring and asset impairment charges and non-cash intangibles amortization. Most of these excluded amounts pertain to events that have not yet occurred and are not currently possible to estimate with a reasonable degree of accuracy. Therefore, no reconciliation to GAAP amounts has been provided. Future amortization of intangibles is expected to be approximately $14 million per quarter.
 
NOTE TO EDITORS: Further technology, corporate citizenship and executive news is available on the Agilent news site at
www.agilent.com/go/news
.
 
 
The preliminary income statement is estimated based on our current information.
 
 
The preliminary balance sheet is estimated based on our current information.
 
 
 
The preliminary cash flow statement is estimated based on our current information.
 
 
We provide adjusted net income and adjusted net income per share amounts in order to provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance and our prospects for the future. These supplemental measures exclude, among other things, charges related to the amortization of intangibles, the impact of restructuring charges and the sale of our businesses. Some of the exclusions, such as impairments, may be beyond the control of management. Further, some may be less predictable than revenue derived from our core businesses (the day to day business of selling our products and services). These reasons provide the basis for management's belief that the measures are useful.
 
Our management uses non-GAAP measures to evaluate the performance of our core businesses, to estimate future core performance and to compensate employees. Since management finds this measure to be useful, we believe that our investors benefit from seeing our results "through the eyes" of management in addition to seeing our GAAP results. This information facilitates our management's internal comparisons to our historical operating results as well as to the operating results of our competitors.
 
Our management recognizes that items such as amortization of intangibles and restructuring charges can have a material impact on our cash flows and/or our net income. Our GAAP financial statements including our statement of cash flows portray those effects. Although we believe it is useful for investors to see core performance free of special items, investors should understand that the excluded items are actual expenses that may impact the cash available to us for other uses. To gain a complete picture of all effects on the company's profit and loss from any and all events, management does (and investors should) rely upon the GAAP income statement. The non-GAAP numbers focus instead upon the core business of the company, which is only a subset, albeit a critical one, of the company's performance.
 
Readers are reminded that non-GAAP numbers are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. They should be read in conjunction with the GAAP financial measures. It should be noted as well that our non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
 
The preliminary adjusted net income and diluted EPS reconciliation is estimated based on our current information.
 
 
Historical amounts are reclassified to conform with current period presentation
 
ROIC calculation:(annualized current quarter segment return)/(average of the two most recent quarter-end balances of Segment Invested Capital)
 
  Agilent return is equal to adjusted net income from operations of $72 million plus net interest expense after tax of $8 million. Please see "Adjusted Net Income and Diluted EPS Reconciliations" for a reconciliation of adjusted net income from operations to GAAP income from operations.
(a)
  Segment assets consist of inventory, accounts receivable, property plant and equipment, gross goodwill and other intangibles, deferred taxes and allocated corporate assets.
(b)
  Includes accounts payable, employee compensation and benefits, deferred revenue, other accrued liabilities and allocated corporate liabilities.
(c)
 
Return on invested capital (ROIC) is a non-GAAP measure that management believes provides useful supplemental information for management and the investor. ROIC is a tool by which we track how much value we are creating for our shareholders. Management uses ROIC as a performance measure for our businesses, and our senior managers' compensation is linked to ROIC improvements as well as other performance criteria. We believe that ROIC provides our management with a means to analyze and improve their business, measuring segment profitability in relation to net asset investments. We acknowledge that ROIC may not be calculated the same way by every company. We compensate for this limitation by monitoring and providing to the reader a full GAAP income statement and balance sheet.
 
Readers are reminded that non-GAAP numbers are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. They should be read in conjunction with the GAAP financial measures. It should be noted as well that our non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
 
The preliminary reconciliation of ROIC is estimated based on our current information.


