FILE:A/A-8K-20090928153602.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):  
September 22, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 1.01.  Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
 
Entry into Change of Control Severance Agreement
 
Effective September 22, 2009, Marie Oh Huber was promoted to Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Agilent Technologies, Inc. (the "Company") and entered into a new Change of Control Severance Agreement for Section 16 officers of the Company (other than the CEO) (the "Section 16 Change of Control Agreement").  The Section 16 Change of Control Agreement replaces and supersedes any and all prior change of control severance agreements entered into between Ms. Huber and the Company.
 
The form of Section 16 Change of Control Agreement was approved by the Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Compensation Committee") on July 14, 2009 and only applies to Section 16 officers who are newly hired, promoted or elected on or after July 14, 2009.  Current Section 16 officers, including the CEO, who have existing change of control severance agreements in place with the Company will continue to be party to their existing agreements unless elected, promoted or demoted to a new position, whereupon they will enter into a new form of change of control severance agreement, if applicable.  The Section 16 Change of Control Agreement is substantially the same as the prior form of agreement with the exception that the Section 16 Change of Control Agreement does not provide any tax gross-up benefits.
 
The conditions under which severance benefits become payable under the Section 16 Change of Control Agreement are as follows.  In general, two conditions must be met:  (i) a change of control, as defined in the agreement, must have occurred and (ii)  (a) the executive's employment is  involuntarily terminated without cause, (b) the executive resigns due to an event constituting a constructive termination of employment, or (c) prior to a change of control the executive is terminated without cause, or resigns because of a Company action constituting constructive termination of employment, which termination or Company action was at the request of an acquiror of the Company.  The involuntary or constructive termination in (a) and (b) must occur within the period beginning 3 months before and ending 24 months following a change of control of the Company.
 
The severance benefits under the Section 16 Change of Control Agreement consist of the following: (i) a severance payment equal to two times such officer's annual base salary and target bonus; (ii) a lump sum cash payment in lieu of continued COBRA benefits; (iii) vesting of all outstanding non-performance-based stock options and stock awards; and (iv) the prorated amount, if any, of any amount otherwise payable based on actual performance under any applicable variable pay programs.
 
In addition, on July 14, 2009, the Compensation Committee also approved new forms of change of control severance agreements to be entered into with (i) any newly hired, promoted or elected chief executive officer of the Company or, (ii) certain other newly hired, promoted, demoted or elected executive officers (other than the CEO or Section 16 officers) of the Company, in either case, occurring on or after July 14, 2009.  These new forms of agreements are substantially the same as the prior forms of agreements with the exception that the new agreements do not provide any tax gross-up benefits.
 
The foregoing summary of the Section 16 Change of Control Agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01.  Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Date:  September 28, 2009
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
FORM OF
CHANGE OF CONTROL SEVERANCE AGREEMENT
 
(For Section 16 Officers (Other than the CEO))
 
This Change of Control Severance Agreement (the "") is entered into this           day of                           , 20       (the "Effective Date") between                                      ("Executive") and Agilent Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "").
Agreement
Company
 
This Agreement is intended to provide Executive with the compensation and benefits described herein upon the occurrence of specific events following a change of control of the ownership of the Company (defined as "Change of Control").
 
 
A.           
As is the case with most, if not all, publicly-traded businesses, it is expected that the Company from time to time may consider or may be presented with the need to consider the possibility of an acquisition by another company or other change in control of the ownership of the Company.  The Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") recognizes that such considerations can be a distraction to Executive and can cause the Executive to consider alternative employment opportunities or to be influenced by the impact of a possible change in control of the ownership of the Company on Executive's personal circumstances in evaluating such possibilities.  The Board has determined that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to assure that the Company will have the continued dedication and objectivity of Executive, notwithstanding the possibility, threat or occurrence of a Change of Control of the Company.
 
B.
            The Board believes that it is in the best interests of the Company and its shareholders to provide Executive with an incentive to continue his or her employment and to motivate Executive to maximize the value of the Company upon a Change of Control for the benefit of its shareholders.
 
C.
            The Board believes that it is important to provide Executive with certain benefits upon Executive's termination of employment in certain instances upon or following a Change of Control that provide Executive with enhanced financial security and incentive and encouragement to Executive to remain with the Company notwithstanding the possibility of a Change of Control.
 
D.           
At the same time, the Board expects the Company to receive certain benefits in exchange for providing Executive with this measure of financial security and incentive under the Agreement.  Therefore, the Board believes that the Executive should provide various specific commitments which are intended to assure the Company that Executive will not direct Executive's skills, experience and knowledge to the detriment of the Company for a period not to exceed the period during which payments are being made to Executive under this Agreement.
 
E.            
Certain capitalized terms used in this Agreement are defined in Article VII.
 
The Company and Executive hereby agree as follows:
 
ARTICLE I.
 
EMPLOYMENT BY THE COMPANY
 
1.1         
Executive is currently employed as                                                                 of the Company and has been named a Section 16 officer of the Company.
 
1.2         
Executive shall be entitled to the rights and benefits of this Agreement and this Agreement may not be terminated, except as otherwise provided in Section 4.5, if Executive is a Section 16 officer on the date of the occurrence of any event set forth in Section 2.1(a) or Section 2.2(a) hereof (the "Section 1.2 Date.") The rights and obligations of the parties hereto contained in Articles III through VIII shall survive any termination of this Agreement for the longer of (i) twenty-four (24) months following a Termination Event (as hereinafter defined) (the "Term") or (ii) such longer period provided for in this Agreement.
 
1.3         
The Company and Executive each agree and acknowledge that Executive is employed by the Company as an "at-will" employee and that either Executive or the Company has the right at any time to terminate or to change Executive's employment with the Company, or to determine that Executive is no longer a Section 16 officer of the Company regardless of the continued employment of the Executive with or without cause or advance notice, for any reason or for no reason.  The Company and Executive wish to set forth the compensation and benefits which Executive shall be entitled to receive in the event that Executive's employment with the Company terminates under the circumstances described in Article II of this Agreement.
 
1.4         
The duties and obligations of the Company to Executive under this Agreement shall be in consideration for [Executive's past services to the Company,] Executive's continued employment with the Company, Executive's compliance with the obligations described in Section 4.2, and Executive's execution of the general waiver and release described in Section 4.3.  The Company and Executive agree that Executive's compliance with the obligations described in Section 4.2 and Executive's execution of the general waiver and release described in Section 4.3 are preconditions to Executive's entitlement to the receipt of benefits under this Agreement and that these benefits shall not be earned unless all such conditions have been satisfied through the scheduled date of payment.  The Company hereby declares that it has relied upon Executive's commitments under this Agreement to comply with the requirements of Article IV, and would not have been induced to enter into this Agreement or to execute this Agreement in the absence of such commitments.
 
ARTICLE II.
TERMINATION EVENTS
 
2.1         
Involuntary Termination Upon or Following Change of Control
.
 
(a)           In the event Executive's employment with the Company and its subsidiaries is involuntarily terminated at any time by the Company without Cause either (i) at the time of or within twenty-four (24) months following the occurrence of a Change of Control, (ii) within three (3) months prior to a Change of Control, whether or not such termination is at the request of an "Acquiror", or (iii) at any time prior to a Change of Control, if such termination
 
is at the request of an Acquiror, then, upon such Change of Control, such termination of employment will be a Termination Event and the Company shall pay Executive the compensation and benefits described in and at the times provided under Article III.  For all purposes of this Agreement the term "Acquiror"is either a person or a member of a group of related persons representing such group that in either case obtains effective control of the Company in the transaction or a group of related transactions constituting the Change of Control.
 
(b)           In the event Executive's employment with the Company and its subsidiaries is either involuntarily terminated by the Company with Cause at any time, or is involuntarily terminated by the Company without Cause at any time other than under the circumstances described in Section 2.1(a), then such termination of employment will be a Termination Event, Executive will be entitled to receive any payments or benefits under the provisions of this Agreement, and the Company will cease paying compensation or providing benefits to Executive as of Executive's termination date.
not
not
 
2.2         
Voluntary Termination Upon or Following Change of Control
.
 
(a)           Executive may voluntarily terminate his employment with the Company and its subsidiaries at any time.  In the event Executive voluntarily terminates his employment within three (3) months of the occurrence of an event constituting Good Reason and on account of an event constituting Good Reason, which event occurs either (i) at the time of or within twenty-four (24) months following the occurrence of a Change of Control, (ii) within three (3) months prior to a Change of Control, whether or not such termination is at the request of an "Acquiror", or (iii) at any time prior to a Change of Control, if such triggering event or Executive's termination is at the request of an Acquiror, then, upon such Change of Control, such termination of employment will be a Termination Event and the Company shall pay Executive the compensation and benefits described in and at the times provided under Article III.
 
(b)           In the event (i) Executive voluntarily terminates his employment for any reason other than on account of an event constituting Good Reason under the circumstances described in Section 2.2(a), or (ii) Executive's employment terminates on account of either death or physical or mental disability, then such termination of employment will be a Termination Event, Executive will be entitled to receive any payments or benefits under the provisions of this Agreement, and the Company will cease paying compensation or providing benefits to Executive as of the Executive's termination date.
not
not
 
ARTICLE III.
 
COMPENSATION AND BENEFITS PAYABLE
 
3.1         
Right to Benefits
.  If a Termination Event occurs, Executive shall be entitled to receive the benefits described in this Agreement so long as Executive complies with the restrictions and limitations set forth in Article IV; provided, further, that the Executive must execute the employee Release (as defined in Section 4.3); and the time period for revocation of such Release must have elapsed (an "Effective Release") within sixty (60) days of the Termination Event which Release shall remain in effect at the time that the benefits of this Article III are paid.  If a Termination Event does not occur, Executive shall not be entitled to
 
receive any benefits described in this Agreement, except as otherwise specifically set forth herein.
 
3.2         
Salary Continuation
.  Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, Executive shall receive two times the sum of Executive's Base Salary plus Target Bonus, less any applicable withholding of federal, state or local taxes.  Amounts to be paid under this section shall be paid in a lump sum no later than the later of thirty (30) days after the date of the Termination Event or the date of an Effective Release.
 
3.3         
Health Insurance Coverage
.
 
Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, Executive shall be entitled to receive a payment equal to Eighty-Thousand U.S. Dollars ($80,000) (the "Health Expense Benefit"). The purpose of the Health Expense Benefit is to assist Executive with healthcare expenses, including additional health plan premium payments that may result from the occurrence of a Termination Event. 
Amounts to be paid under this section shall be paid in a lump sum no later than thirty (30) days after the date of the Termination Event or the date of an Effective Release.
 
This Section 3.3 provides only for the Company's payment of the
Health Expense Benefit
.  This Section 3.3 does not affect the rights of Executive or Executive's covered dependents under any applicable law with respect to health insurance continuation coverage.
 
3.4         
Stock Award Acceleration
.  Executive's stock options which are outstanding as of the date of the Termination Event (the "Stock Options") shall become fully vested upon the occurrence of the Termination Event and exercisable so long as Executive complies with the restrictions and limitations set forth in Article IV.  The maximum period of time during which the Stock Options shall remain exercisable, and all other terms and conditions of the Stock Options, shall be as specified in the relevant Stock Option agreements and relevant stock plans under which the Stock Option were granted.  The term "Stock Options" shall not include any rights of the Executive under the Company's employee stock purchase plan.
 
Executive's restricted stock awards that are outstanding as of the date of the Termination Event ("Restricted Stock") and that are not subject to performance-based vesting shall become fully vested and free from any contractual rights of the Company to repurchase or otherwise reacquire the Restricted Stock as a result of Executive's termination of employment.  All shares of Restricted Stock which have not yet been delivered to Executive or his designee (whether because subject to joint escrow instructions or otherwise) shall be delivered to Executive or his designee as soon as administratively feasible after the occurrence of a Termination Event. 
Executive's restricted stock awards that are subject to performance-based vesting shall be covered by the terms of the applicable award agreement.
 
The treatment of Executive's other awards, if any, outstanding under the 1999 Stock Plan of the Company, or any successor plan thereto (together the "Stock Plan"), at the time of the Termination Event shall be governed by the respective award agreement.  This includes but is not limited to restricted stock units, awards under the long-term performance program, and includes awards made pursuant to the Stock Plan which may be settled in cash.
 
3.5         
Bonus
.  If a Termination Event occurs, Executive shall receive a pro-rated bonus under any bonus plan applicable to Executive, which is in place at the time of the Termination
 
Event for the performance period in which the Termination Event occurs.  The amount of the bonus shall be calculated under the terms of such bonus program as established by the Company, including whether or not, or to what degree, any performance-based conditions have been met, and shall be equal to the amount of the bonus the Executive would have been paid under the terms of such bonus program had the Executive continued his employment with the Company until the end of such performance period multiplied by a fraction in which (i) the numerator is the number of days from and including the first day of the performance period until and including the date of the Termination Event, and (ii) the denominator is the number of days in the performance period.  Such bonus shall be paid on the date Executive would have received the bonus if the Termination Event had not occurred during such performance period; provided, however, that in any event such bonus will be paid no later than two and one-half (2 ) months after the end of the calendar year in which the Termination Event occurs.  Executive's rights to the payment provided in this Section 3.5 shall not be terminated by the application of Section 4.2 of this Agreement.  This Section 3.5 shall not apply to awards pursuant to the Stock Plan.
 
3.6         
Mitigation
.  Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, Executive shall not be required to mitigate damages or the amount of any payment provided under this Agreement by seeking other employment or otherwise, nor shall the amount of any payment provided for under this Agreement be reduced by any compensation earned by Executive as a result of employment by another employer or by retirement benefits after the date of the Termination Event, or otherwise.
 
3.7         
Compliance with Section 409A
.  In the event that (i) one or more payments of compensation or benefits received or to be received by Executive pursuant to this Agreement ("Agreement Payment") would constitute deferred compensation subject to Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code") and (ii) Executive is deemed at the time of such termination of employment to be a "specified employee" under Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) of the Code, then such Agreement Payment shall not be made or commence until the earlier of (i) the expiration of the six (6)-month period measured from the date of Executive's "separation from service" (as such term is at the time defined in Treasury Regulations under Section 409A of the Code) with the Company or (ii) such earlier time permitted under Section 409A of the Code and the regulations or other authority promulgated thereunder; provided, however, that such deferral shall only be effected to the extent required to avoid adverse tax treatment to Executive under Section 409A of the Code, including (without limitation) the additional twenty percent (20%) tax for which Executive would otherwise be liable under Section 409A(a)(1)(B) of the Code in the absence of such deferral.  During any period in which an Agreement Payment to Executive is deferred pursuant to the foregoing, Executive shall be entitled to interest on the deferred Agreement Payment at a per annum rate equal to the highest rate of interest applicable to six (6)-month non-callable certificates of deposit with daily compounding offered by the following institutions: Citibank N.A., Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. or Bank of America, on the date of such separation from service. Upon the expiration of the applicable deferral period, any Agreement Payment which would have otherwise been made during that period (whether in a single sum or in installments) in the absence of this paragraph shall be paid to Executive or his beneficiary in one lump sum, including all accrued interest.
 
ARTICLE IV.
 
LIMITATIONS AND CONDITIONS ON BENEFITS; AMENDMENT OF AGREEMENT
 
4.1         
Reduction in Payments and Benefits; Withholding Taxes
.  The benefits provided under this Agreement are in lieu of any benefit provided under any other severance plan, program or arrangement of the Company in effect at the time of a Termination Event.  The Company shall withhold appropriate federal, state or local income, employment and other applicable taxes from any payments hereunder.
 
4.2         
Obligations of the Executive
.
 
(a)           For two years following the Termination Event, Executive agrees not to personally solicit any of the employees either of the Company or of any entity in which the Company directly or indirectly possesses the ability to determine the voting of 50% or more of the voting securities of such entity (including two-party joint ventures in which each party possesses 50% of the total voting power of the entity) to become employed elsewhere or provide the names of such employees to any other company which Executive has reason to believe will solicit such employees.
 
(b)           Following the occurrence of a Termination Event, Executive agrees to continue to satisfy his obligations under the terms of the Company's standard form of Proprietary Information and Non-Disclosure Agreement previously executed by Executive (or any comparable agreement subsequently executed by Executive in substitution or supplement thereto).  Executive's obligations under this Section 4.2(b) shall not be limited to the Term.
 
(c)           It is expressly understood and agreed that although Executive and the Company consider the restrictions contained in this Section 4 to be reasonable, if a final judicial determination is made by a court of competent jurisdiction that the time or territory or any other restriction contained in this Agreement is an unenforceable restriction against Executive, the provisions of this Agreement shall not be rendered void, but shall be deemed amended to apply as to such maximum time or territory and to such maximum extent as such court may judicially determine or indicate to be enforceable.  Alternatively, if any court of competent jurisdiction finds that any restriction contained in this Agreement is unenforceable, and such restriction cannot be amended so as to make it enforceable, such finding shall not affect the enforceability of any of the other restrictions contained herein.
 
(d)           Executive acknowledges and agrees that the Company's remedies at law for a breach or threatened breach of any of the provisions of Section 4.2(a) or Section 4.2(b) would be inadequate and, in recognition of this fact, Executive agrees that, in the event of such a breach or threatened breach, in addition to any remedies at law, the Company, without posting any bond, shall, with respect to a breach or threatened breach of Section 4.2(a) or Section 4.2(b) only, obtain equitable relief in the form of specific performance, temporary restraining order, temporary or permanent injunction, or any other equitable remedy which may then be available.
 
4.3         
Employee Release Prior to Receipt of Benefits
.  Upon the occurrence of a Termination Event, and prior to the receipt of any benefits under this Agreement on account of the occurrence of a Termination Event, Executive shall, as of the date of a Termination Event,
 
execute an employee release substantially in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A ("Release") as shall be determined by the Company.  Such employee Release shall specifically relate to all of Executive's rights and claims in existence at the time of such execution relating to Executive's employment with the Company, but shall not include (i) Executive's rights under this Agreement; (ii) Executive's rights under any employee benefit plan sponsored by the Company; or (iii) Executive's rights to indemnification under the Company's bylaws or other governing instruments or under any agreement addressing such subject matter between Executive and the Company or under any merger or acquisition agreement addressing such subject matter; (iv) Executive's rights of insurance under any liability policy covering the Company's officers or (v) claims which Executive may not Release as a matter of law, including, but not limited to, indemnification claims under applicable law.  It is understood that Executive has twenty-one (21) days after receipt of the form of Release from the Company to consider whether to execute such employee Release and Executive may revoke such employee Release within seven (7) days after execution of such employee Release.  I
n the event that the Executive has not received a form of Release from the Company by the tenth (10
th
) day following the Termination Event, the Executive may execute the form of Release attached hereto as Exhibit A and that shall be deemed acceptable to the Company.
 In the event Executive does not execute such employee Release within the twenty-one (21) day period, or if Executive revokes such employee Release within the seven (7) day period, no benefits shall be payable under this Agreement and this Agreement shall be null and void.  Nothing in this Agreement shall limit the scope or time of applicability of such employee Release once it is executed and not timely revoked.
 
4.4         
Parachute Payments
.  In the event that the any payments or benefits received or to be received by Executive pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise (i) constitute "parachute payments" within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code and (ii) but for this Section 4.4, would be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code, then the Executive's benefits under this Agreement shall be payable either: (A) in full, or (B) as to such lesser amount which would result in no portion of such payments or benefits being subject to the excise tax under Section 4999 of the Code, whichever of the foregoing amounts, taking into account the applicable federal, state and local income taxes and the excise tax imposed by Section 4999, results in the receipt by the Executive on an after-tax basis, of the greatest amount of benefits under this Agreement, notwithstanding that all or some portion of such benefits may be taxable under Section 4999 of the Code.  In the event that a lesser amount is paid under clause (B) above, then the elements of the Executive's payments hereunder shall be reduced in such order as the Company determines, in its sole discretion, has the least economic detriment to the Executive.  To the extent the economic impact of reducing payments from one or more elements is equivalent, the reduction shall be made prorata by the Company in its sole discretion.
 
4.5         
Amendment or Termination of This Agreement
.  The Company may make amendments to this Agreement without the consent of the Executive which are
non-material and which are not adverse to the Executive to the extent necessary or advisable to comply with laws.  Any other changes to or, termination of t
his Agreement may be made only upon the mutual written consent of the Company and Executive; provided, however, that only prior to the Section 1.2 Date , the Company may unilaterally terminate this Agreement following eighteen (18) months' prior written notice to Executive and on or following the Section 1.2 Date, this Agreement may not be terminated.  If the Company makes any changes to this Agreement pursuant to the first sentence of this Section 4.5 it shall provide prompt written notice and a copy of such change to the Executive.
 
ARTICLE V.
 
OTHER RIGHTS AND BENEFITS NOT AFFECTED
 
5.1         
Nonexclusivity
.  Nothing in the Agreement shall prevent or limit Executive's continuing or future participation in any benefit, bonus, incentive or other plans, programs, policies or practices provided by the Company and for which Executive may otherwise qualify, nor shall anything herein limit or otherwise affect such rights as Executive may have under any stock option or other agreements with the Company; , , that in accordance with Section 4.1, any benefits provided hereunder shall be in lieu of any other severance benefits to which Executive may otherwise be entitled, including without limitation, under any employment contract or severance plan.  Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, amounts which are vested benefits or which Executive is otherwise entitled to receive under any plan, policy, practice or program of the Company at or subsequent to the date of a Termination Event shall be payable in accordance with such plan, policy, practice or program.
provided
however
 
5.2         
Employment Status
.  This Agreement does not constitute a contract of employment or impose on Executive any obligation to remain as an employee, or impose on the Company any obligation (i) to retain Executive as an employee, (ii) to change the status of Executive as an at-will employee, or (iii) to change the Company's policies regarding termination or alteration of employment.
 
ARTICLE VI.
 
NON-ALIENATION OF BENEFITS
 
No benefit hereunder shall be subject to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge, and any attempt to do so shall be void.
 
ARTICLE VII.
 
DEFINITIONS
 
For purposes of the Agreement, the following terms shall have the meanings set forth below:
 
7.1         
"" means this Change of Control Severance Agreement.
Agreement
 
7.2         
" means Executive's annual salary (excluding bonus, any other incentive or other payments and stock option exercises) from the Company at the time of the occurrence of the Change of Control or a Termination Event, whichever is greater.
Base Salary"
 
7.3         
"" means misconduct, including but not limited to: (i) conviction of any felony or any crime involving moral turpitude or dishonesty which has a material adverse effect on the Company's business or reputation; (ii) repeated unexplained or unjustified absences from the Company; (iii) refusal or willful failure to act in accordance with any specific lawful direction or order of the Company or stated written policy of the Company which has a material
Cause
 
adverse effect on the Company's business or reputation; (iv) a material and willful violation of any state or federal law which if made public would materially injure the business or reputation of the Company as reasonably determined by the Board; (v) participation in a fraud or act of dishonesty against the Company which has a material adverse effect on the Company's business or reputation; (vi) conduct by Executive which the Board determines demonstrates gross unfitness to serve; or (vii) intentional, material violation by Executive of any contract between Executive and the Company or any statutory duty of Executive to the Company that is not corrected within thirty (30) days after written notice to Executive thereof.  Whether or not the actions or omissions of Executive constitute "Cause" within the meaning of this Section 7.3 shall be decided by the Board based upon a reasonable good faith investigation and determination.  Physical or mental disability shall not constitute "Cause."
 
7.4         
"" means the occurrence of any of the following events:
Change of Control
 
(i)            The sale, exchange, lease or other disposition or transfer of all or substantially all of the consolidated assets of the Company to a person or group (as such terms are defined or described in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act")) which will continue the business of the Company in the future; or
 
(ii)           A merger or consolidation involving the Company in which the shareholders of the Company immediately prior to such merger or consolidation are not the beneficial owners (within the meaning of Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of more than 75% of the total voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the corporation resulting from such transaction in substantially the same proportion as their ownership of the total voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the Company immediately prior to such merger or consolidation; or
 
(iii)          The acquisition of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rules 13d-3 and 13d-5 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of at least 25% of the total voting power of the outstanding voting securities of the Company by a person or group (as such terms are defined or described in Sections 3(a)(9) and 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act).
 
7.5         
"" means Agilent Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and any successor thereto.
Company
 
7.6         
"" means (i) a more than $10,000 reduction of Executive's rate of compensation as in effect immediately prior to the Effective Date of this Agreement or in effect immediately prior to the occurrence of a Change of Control, whichever is greater, other than reductions in Base Salary that apply broadly to employees of the Company or reductions due to varying metrics and achievement of performance goals for different periods under variable pay programs; (ii) either (A) failure to provide a package of benefits which, taken as a whole, provides substantially similar benefits to those in which the Executive is entitled to participate in the day prior to the occurrence of the Change of Control (except that employee contributions may be raised to the extent of any cost increases imposed by third parties) or (B) any action by the Company which would significantly and adversely affect Executive's participation or reduce Executive's benefits under any of such plans in existence the day prior to the Change of Control, other than changes that apply broadly to employees of the Company; (iii) change in Executive's duties, responsibilities, authority, job title, or reporting relationships resulting in a significant
Good Reason
 
diminution of position, excluding for this purpose an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent action not taken in bad faith which is remedied by the Company within thirty (30) days after notice thereof is given by Executive; (iv) request that Executive relocate to a worksite that is more than 35 miles from his prior worksite, unless Executive accepts such relocation opportunity; (v) failure or refusal of a successor to the Company to assume the Company's obligations under this Agreement, as provided in Section 8.7; or (vi) material breach by the Company or any successor to the Company of any of the material provisions of this Agreement.  For purposes of clause (iii) of the immediately preceding sentence, Executive's duties, responsibilities, authority, job title or reporting relationships shall not be considered to be significantly diminished (and therefore shall not constitute "Good Reason") so long as Executive continues to perform substantially the same functional role for the Company as Executive performed immediately prior to the occurrence of the Change of Control, even if the Company becomes a subsidiary or division of another entity.
 
7.7         
"" means that amount (expressed as a percentage of Executive's Base Salary) equal to Executive's "target bonus" as defined under the Company's Performance-Based Compensation Plan for Covered Employees (or the comparable term or standard under the Company's cash incentive plan in effect at the time of Executive's Termination Event if the Performance-Based Compensation Plan for Covered Employees is no longer in effect at such time) as set for the Executive by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors or other authorized body covering the twelve-month period ending at the end of the performance period during which the Executive's Termination Event occurs.
Target Bonus
 
7.8         
"" means an involuntary termination of employment described in Section 2.1(a) or a voluntary termination of employment described in Section 2.2(a).
Termination Event
 
7.9         
Termination of employment for purposes of this Agreement means
a separation from service within the meaning of Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h).  The Executive shall not be deemed to have separated from service if the Executive continues to provide services to the Company at an annual rate that is fifty percent or more of the services rendered, on average, during the immediately preceding three full years of employment with the Company (or if employed by the Company less than three years, such lesser period); provided, however, that a separation from service will be deemed to have occurred if the Executive service with the Company is reduced to an annual rate that is less than twenty percent of the services rendered, on average, during the immediately preceding three full years of employment with the Company (or if employed by the Company less than three years, such lesser period). For purposes of this Section 7.9 only and for determining whether a Executive has experienced a separation from service, the "Company" shall mean the Company and its affiliates that are treated as a single employer under section 414(b) or (c) of the Code.
 
ARTICLE VIII.
 
GENERAL PROVISIONS
 
8.1         
Notices
.  Any notices provided hereunder must be in writing and such notices or any other written communication shall be deemed effective upon the earlier of personal delivery (including personal delivery by telex or facsimile) or the third day after mailing by first class
 
mail, to the Company at its primary office location and to Executive at Executive's address as listed in the Company's payroll records.  Any payments made by the Company to Executive under the terms of this Agreement shall be delivered to Executive either in person or at such address as listed in the Company's payroll records.
 
8.2
                              
Severability
.  It is the intent of the parties to this Agreement that whenever possible, each provision of this Agreement will be interpreted in such manner as to be effective and valid under applicable law, but if any provision of this Agreement is held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect under any applicable law or rule in any jurisdiction, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability will not affect any other provision or any other jurisdiction, but this Agreement will be reformed, construed and enforced in such jurisdiction as if such invalid, illegal or unenforceable provisions had never been contained herein.
 
8.3
                              
Waiver
.  If either party should waive any breach of any provisions of this Agreement, that party shall not thereby be deemed to have waived any preceding or succeeding breach of the same or any other provision of this Agreement.
 
8.4
                              
Complete Agreement
.  This Agreement, including Exhibit A, constitutes the entire agreement between Executive and the Company and it is the complete, final, and exclusive embodiment of their agreement with regard to this subject matter.  It is entered into without reliance on any promise or representation other than those expressly contained herein.
 
8.5
                              
Counterparts
.  This Agreement may be executed in separate counterparts, any one of which need not contain signatures of more than one party, but all of which taken together will constitute one and the same Agreement.
 
8.6
                              
Headings
.  The headings of the Articles and Sections hereof are inserted for convenience only and shall neither be deemed to constitute a part hereof nor to affect the meaning thereof.
 
8.7
                              
Successors and Assigns
.  This Agreement is intended to bind and inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by Executive and the Company, and their respective successors, assigns, heirs, executors and administrators, except that Executive may not delegate any of Executive's duties hereunder and may not assign any of Executive's rights hereunder without the written consent of the Company, which consent shall not be withheld unreasonably.  Any successor to the Company (whether direct or indirect and whether by purchase, merger, consolidation, liquidation or otherwise) to all or substantially all of the Company's business and/or assets shall assume the Company's obligations under this Agreement in the same manner and to the same extent as the Company would be required to perform such obligations in the absence of a succession.  For all purposes under this Agreement, the term "Company" shall include any successor to the Company's business and/or assets, whether or not such successor executes and delivers an assumption agreement referred to in the preceding sentence or becomes bound by the terms of this Agreement by operation of law or otherwise.
 
8.8
                              
Attorney Fees
.  If either party hereto brings any action to enforce such party's rights hereunder, the prevailing party in any such action shall be entitled to recover such party's reasonable attorneys' fees and costs incurred in connection with such action.
8.9
                              
Arbitration
.  In order to ensure rapid and economical resolution of any dispute which may arise under this Agreement, Executive and the Company agree that any and all disputes or controversies, arising from or regarding the interpretation, performance, enforcement or termination of this Agreement shall submitted to JAMS for non-binding mediation.  If complete agreement cannot be reached within 60 days after the date of submission to mediation, any remaining issues will be submitted to JAMS to be resolved by final and binding arbitration under the JAMS Arbitration Rules and Procedures for Employment Disputes.  The reference to JAMS shall refer to any successor to JAMS, if applicable.  .
BY ENTERING INTO THIS AGREEMENT, THE COMPANY AND EXECUTIVE ACKNOWLEDGE THAT THEY ARE WAIVING THEIR RIGHT TO JURY TRIAL OF ANY DISPUTE COVERED BY THIS AGREEMENT
 
8.10
                       
Choice of Law
.  All questions concerning the construction, validity and interpretation of this Agreement will be governed by the law of the State of California.
 
8.11
                       
Construction of Agreement
.  In the event of a conflict between the text of the Agreement and any summary, description or other information regarding the Agreement, the text of the Agreement shall control.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
, the parties have executed this Agreement effective on the day and year written above.
 
 
GENERAL RELEASE AND AGREEMENT
 
This General Release and Agreement (the "Agreement") is made and entered into by                                                        ("Executive").  The Agreement is part of an agreement between Executive and Agilent Technologies, Inc. ("Agilent') to terminate Executive's employment with Agilent on terms that are satisfactory both to Agilent and to Executive.  Therefore, Executive agrees as follows:
 
1.
                                      
Executive agrees to attend a Functional Exit Interview on                         , 20     at which time all company property and identification will be turned in and the appropriate personnel documents will be executed.  Thereafter, Executive agrees to do such other acts as may be reasonably requested by Agilent in order to effectuate the terms of this agreement.  Executive agrees to remove all personal effects from his current office within seven days of signing this agreement and in any event not later than                       , 20    .
 
2.
                                      
Executive agrees not to make any public statement or statements to the press concerning Agilent, its business objectives, its management practices, or other sensitive information without first receiving Agilent's written approval.  Executive further agrees to take no action which would cause Agilent or its employees or agents any embarrassment or humiliation or otherwise cause or contribute to Agilent's or any such person's being held in disrepute by the general public or Agilent's employees, clients, or customers.
 
3.
                                      
Executive, on behalf of Executive's heirs, estate, executors, administrators, successors and assigns does fully release, discharge, and agree to hold harmless Agilent, its officers, agents, employees, attorneys, subsidiaries, affiliated companies, successors and assigns from all actions, causes of action, claims, judgments, obligations, damages, liabilities, costs, or expense of whatsoever kind and character which he may have, ;
including but not limited to
 
a.
                                      
any claims relating to employment discrimination on account of race, sex, age, national origin, creed, disability, or other basis, whether or not arising under the Federal Civil Rights Acts, the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, California Fair Employment and Housing Act, the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, the Americans With Disabilities Act, any amendments to the foregoing laws, or any other federal, state, county, municipal, or other law, statute, regulation or order relating to employment discrimination;
 
b.
                                     
any claims relating to pay or leave of absence arising under the Fair Labor Standards Act, the Family Medical Leave Act, and any similar laws enacted in California;
c.
                                      
any claims for reemployment, salary, wages, bonuses, vacation pay, stock options, acquired rights, appreciation from stock options, stock appreciation rights, benefits or other compensation of any kind;
 
d.
                                     
any claims relating to, arising out of, or connected with Executive's employment with Agilent, whether or not the same be based upon any alleged violation of public policy; compliance (or lack thereof) with any internal Agilent policy, procedure, practice or guideline; or any oral, written. express, and/or implied employment contract or agreement, or the breach of any terms thereof, including but not limited to, any implied covenant of good faith and fair dealing; or any federal, state, county or municipal law, statute, regulation, or order whether or not relating to labor or employment;
and
 
e.
                                      
any claims relating to, arising out of, or connected with any other matter or event occurring prior to the execution of this Agreement whether or not brought before any judicial, administrative, or other tribunal.
 
The foregoing release shall not apply to (i) Executive's rights under the Amended and Restated Change of Control Severance Agreement between Executive and the Company; (ii) Executive's rights under any employee benefit plan sponsored by the Company; (iii) Executive's rights to indemnification under the Company's bylaws or other governing instruments or under any agreement addressing such subject matter between Executive and the Company or under any merger or acquisition agreement addressing such subject matter; (iv) Executive's rights of insurance under any liability policy covering the Company's officers or (v) claims which Executive may not release as a matter of law, including, but not limited to, indemnification claims under applicable law.
 
4.
                                      
Executive represents and warrants that Executive has not assigned any such claim or authorized any other person or entity to assert such claim on Executive's behalf.  Further, Executive agrees that under this Agreement Executive waives any claim for damages incurred at any time in the future because of alleged continuing effects of past wrongful conduct involving any such claims and any right to sue for injunctive relief against the alleged continuing effects of past wrongful conduct involving such claims.
 
5.
                                      
In entering into this Agreement, the parties have intended that this Agreement be a full and final settlement of all matters, whether or not presently disputed, that could have arisen between them.
 
6.
                                      
Executive understands and expressly agrees that this Agreement extends to all claims of every nature and kind whatsoever, known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, past or present and all rights under Section 1542 of the California Civil Code and/or any similar statute or law or any other jurisdiction are hereby expressly waived. 
Such section reads as follows:
 
"Section 1542.  A general release does not extend to claims which the creditor does not know or suspect to exist in his favor at the time of executing the release, which if known by him must have materially affected his settlement with the debtor."
7.
                                      
It is expressly agreed that the claims released pursuant to this Agreement include all claims against individual employees of Agilent, whether or not such employees were acting within the course and scope of their employment.
 
8.
                                      
Executive understands and agrees that, as a condition of this Agreement, Executive shall not be entitled to any employment (including employment as an independent contractor or otherwise) with Agilent, its subsidiaries or related companies, or any successor, and Executive hereby waives any right, or alleged right, of employment or re-employment with Agilent.  Executive further agrees not to apply for employment with Agilent in the future and not to institute or join any action, lawsuit or proceeding against Agilent, its subsidiaries, related companies or successors for any failure to employ Executive.  In the event Executive should secure such employment, it is agreed that such employment is voidable without cause in the sole discretion of Agilent.  After terminating Executive's employment, should Executive become employed by another company which Agilent merges with or acquires after the date of this Agreement, Executive may continue such employment only if Agilent makes offers of employment to all employees of the acquired or merged company.
 
9.
                                      
Executive agrees that the terms, amount and fact of settlement shall be confidential until Agilent Technologies needs to make any required disclosure of any agreements between Agilent and Executive.  Therefore, except as may be necessary to enforce the rights contained herein in an appropriate legal proceeding or as may be necessary to receive professional services from, an attorney, accountant, or other professional adviser in order for such adviser to render professional services, Executive agrees not to disclose any information concerning these arrangements to anyone, including, but not limited to, past, present and future employees of Agilent, until such time of the public filings.
 
10.
                                
At Agilent's request, Executive shall cooperate fully in connection with any legal matter, proceeding or action relating to Agilent.
 
11.
                                
The terms of this Agreement are intended by the parties as a final expression of their agreement with respect to such terms as are included in this Agreement and may not be contradicted by evidence of any prior or contemporaneous agreement.  The parties further intend that this Agreement constitutes the complete and exclusive statement of its terms and that no extrinsic evidence whatsoever may be introduced in any judicial or other proceeding, if any, involving this Agreement.  No modification of this Agreement shall be effective unless in writing and signed by both parties hereto.
 
12.
                                
It is further expressly agreed and understood that Executive has not relied upon any advice from Agilent Technologies, Inc. and/or its attorneys whatsoever as to the taxability, whether pursuant to federal, state, or local income tax statutes or regulations or otherwise, of the payments made hereunder and that Executive will be solely liable for all tax obligations, if any, arising from payment of the sums specified herein and shall hold Agilent Technologies, Inc. harmless from any tax obligations arising from said payment.
 
13.
                                
If there is any dispute arising out of or related to this Agreement, which cannot be settled by good faith negotiation between the parties, such dispute will be submitted to JAMS for
non-binding mediation.  If complete agreement cannot be reached within 60 days of submission to mediation, any remaining issues will be submitted to JAMS for final and binding arbitration pursuant to JAMS Arbitration Rules and Procedures for Employment Disputes.  The reference to JAMS shall refer to any successor to JAMS, if applicable. 
BY ENTERING INTO THIS AGREEMENT, EXECUTIVE ACKNOWLEDGES THAT EXECUTIVE IS WAIVING EXECUTIVE'S RIGHT TO JURY TRIAL OF ANY DISPUTE COVERED BY THIS AGREEMENT.
 
EXECUTIVE FURTHER STATES THAT EXECUTIVE HAS HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO CONSULT WITH THE ATTORNEY OF EXECUTIVE'S CHOICE, THAT EXECUTIVE HAS CAREFULLY READ THIS AGREEMENT, THAT EXECUTIVE HAS HAD AMPLE TIME TO REFLECT UPON AND CONSIDER ITS CONSEQUENCES, THAT EXECUTIVE FULLY UNDERSTANDS ITS FINAL AND BINDING EFFECT, THAT THE ONLY PROMISES MADE TO EXECUTIVE TO SIGN THIS AGREEMENT ARE THOSE STATED ABOVE OR IN THAT CHANGE OF CONTROL SEVERANCE AGREEMENT BETWEEN AGILENT AND EXECUTIVE, AND THAT EXECUTIVE IS SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT VOLUNTARILY.
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been executed in duplicate originals on the date indicated below, and shall become effective as indicated above.
 
 


