FILE:A/A-8K-20100730162933.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
 
On May 14, 2010, pursuant to the terms of an Agreement and Plan of Merger (as amended, the "Merger Agreement") among Agilent Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Agilent"), Cobalt Acquisition Corp., a Delaware corporation and a wholly owned subsidiary of Agilent ("Merger Sub"), and Varian, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Varian"), Agilent completed its acquisition of Varian via the merger of Merger Sub with and into Varian, with Varian continuing as the surviving company in the merger and becoming a wholly owned subsidiary of Agilent (the "Merger").
 
As a result of the Merger, each share of common stock of Varian issued and outstanding immediately prior to the effective time of the Merger, other than shares held by any Varian stockholders who properly exercised statutory appraisal rights and shares owned by Varian as treasury stock or by any subsidiary of Varian, was automatically converted into the right to receive $52.00 in cash, without interest and less any applicable withholding taxes.  Varian's unvested restricted stock units and performance shares were also paid out at $52 per share and Varian's in the money stock options were paid out at $52 per share less the applicable exercise price, in all cases without interest and less any applicable withholding taxes.  The aggregate purchase price for the acquisition was approximately $1.5 billion.
 
On May 20, 2010, Agilent filed a Current Report on Form 8-K stating that it had completed the acquisition of Varian and that the financial statements and pro forma financial information required under Item 9.01 of Form 8-K would be filed within the time period specified in the instructions to Item 9.01 of Form 8-K.  This amended Current Report on Form 8-K contains the required financial statements and pro forma financial information.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(a) Financial Statements of Business Acquired.
 
The audited financial statements required by this item are incorporated herein by reference to the audited consolidated financial statements of Varian, Inc. as of and for the fiscal year ended October 2, 2009 contained in Varian's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 2, 2009, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") on November 25, 2009. Such financial statements are included herein as Exhibit 99.1.
 
The unaudited financial statements for the interim period required by this item are incorporated herein by reference to the unaudited consolidated financial statements of Varian, Inc. as of and for the second fiscal quarter ended April 2, 2010, contained in Varian's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 2, 2010, as filed with the SEC on May 12, 2010. Such financial statements are included herein as Exhibit 99.2.
 
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
 
The required pro forma financial information as of and for the three months ended January 31, 2010 and for the year ended October 31, 2009, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.3 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are attached herewith:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 23.1
We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 ( 333-146892 and 333-161799) and Form S-8 (333-158096, 333-157002, 333-150873, 333-116400, 333-88864, 333-47024, 333-38194, 333-38080, 333-35016 and 333-91121) of Agilent Technologies, Inc. of our report dated November 25, 2009 relating to the consolidated financial statements, financial statement schedule and effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Varian, Inc., which appears in Varian, Inc.'s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended October 2, 2009, which is incorporated by reference in this Current Report on Form 8-K of Agilent Technologies, Inc.
 
PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP
 
 
San Jose, California
July 30, 2010
 
 

Exhibit 99.3
On May 14, 2010, Agilent Technologies, Inc. ("Agilent") completed its acquisition of all of the outstanding shares of common stock, par value $0.01 per share (the "Shares"), of Varian, Inc. ("Varian"), pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of July 26, 2009 (the "Merger Agreement"), by and among Agilent, Varian and Cobalt Acquisition Corp., a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of Agilent ("Purchaser").
 
The consideration paid by Purchaser and Agilent for the Shares was approximately $1,507 million, comprising $52 cash per share of Varian's outstanding common stock. The Purchaser and Agilent also paid $17 million to acquire Varian's vested in-the money stock options at $52 cash per share less their exercise price. In addition the Purchaser and Agilent paid $12 million for Varian's non-vested in-the-money stock options at $52 cash per share less their exercise price and Varian's non-vested restricted stock awards and performance shares at 100 percent of target equal to $52 cash per share. In accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance, settlement of the non-vested awards is considered to be for the performance of post combination services and is therefore stock-based compensation expensed immediately after acquisition. Agilent funded the acquisition using the proceeds from our September 2009 offering of senior notes and other existing cash.
 
The following unaudited pro forma combined financial statements reflect the acquisition of Varian using the acquisition method of accounting. The pro forma adjustments are based upon available information and assumptions that Agilent believes are reasonable. The pro forma adjustments are preliminary and have been prepared to illustrate the estimated effect of the acquisition. Differences between these preliminary estimates (for example estimates as to the value of acquired property, plant and equipment as well as intangible assets) and the final acquisition accounting will occur and these differences could have a material impact on the accompanying unaudited pro forma combined financial statements and the combined companies' future results of operations and financial position.
 
Agilent's fiscal year ended October 31, 2009 and does not differ from Varian's fiscal year ended October 2, 2009 by more than 93 days. As such the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC') rules allow a combined presentation of these reporting periods for the purpose of pro forma financial information.
 
Agilent's quarter ended January 31, 2010 does not differ from Varian's quarter ended January 1, 2010 by more than 93 days. As such the SEC rules allow a combined presentation of these reporting periods for the purpose of pro forma financial information.
 
The unaudited pro forma combined balance sheet as of January 31, 2010 is presented as if our acquisition of Varian had occurred on January 31, 2010.
 
The unaudited pro forma combined consolidated statement of operations for the year ended October 31, 2009 and the three months ended January 31, 2010 illustrate the effect of the acquisition of Varian as if it had occurred on November 1, 2008. The unaudited pro forma combined consolidated statement of operations for the year ended October 31, 2009 combines the historical audited statement of operations of Agilent for the year ended October 31, 2009 and Varian's historical audited statement of earnings for the year ended October 2, 2009. The unaudited pro forma combined consolidated statement of operations for the three months ended January 31, 2010 combines the historical unaudited statement of operations of Agilent for the three months ended January 31, 2010 and Varian's historical unaudited statement of earnings for the three months ended January 1, 2010. The historical consolidated financial information has been adjusted to give effect to pro forma events that are (i) directly attributable to the acquisition, (ii) factually supportable, and (iii) with respect to the statements of operations, expected to have a continuing impact on the combined results of the companies. These unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements are prepared by management for informational purposes only in accordance with Article 11 of Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-X and are not necessarily indicative of future results or of actual results that would have been achieved had the acquisition been consummated as of the dates presented, and should not be taken as representative of future consolidated operating results of Agilent. The unaudited pro forma combined financial statements do not reflect any operating efficiencies and/or cost savings that Agilent may achieve, or any additional expenses or costs of integration that it may incur, with respect to the combined companies as such adjustments are not factually supportable at this point in time. The detailed assumptions used to prepare the pro
forma financial information are contained in the notes to the unaudited pro forma combined financial statements, and such assumptions should be reviewed in their entirety.
 
The unaudited pro forma combined financial statements have been developed from and should be read in conjunction with (i) the historical audited consolidated financial statements for the year ended October 31, 2009 and notes thereto of Agilent contained in its Current Report on Form 8-K, dated July 13, 2010 (ii) the historical unaudited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of Agilent contained in its Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended January 31, 2010, (iii) Varian's historical audited consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes contained in its Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 2, 2009, and (iv)  the historical unaudited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of Varian contained in its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended January 1, 2010.
 
The acquisition has been accounted for in conformity with Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") Accounting Standards Codification 805, Business Combinations ("ASC 805"). Accordingly, the consideration payment of $1,524 million, consisting of approximately (i) $1,507 million paid for the outstanding shares of common stock of Varian, and (ii) $17 million paid to holders of vested in-the-money options to purchase Varian common stock less their exercise price has been allocated on a preliminary basis to assets acquired and net liabilities assumed in connection with the acquisition based on their estimated fair values as of the completion of the acquisition. In addition payments have been made consisting of $3 million paid to holders of non-vested in-the-money options to purchase Varian common stock less their exercise price, $4 million for non-vested restricted stock awards, and $5 million for non-vested performance shares, at 100 percent of target.  In accordance with the authoritative accounting guidance settlement of the non-vested awards is considered to be for the performance of post combination services and is therefore stock-based compensation expense incurred after the close of the acquisition. These allocations reflect preliminary estimates that were available at the time of the preparation of this Current Report on Form 8-K/A.
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the unaudited pro forma combined financial statements.
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the unaudited pro forma combined financial statements.
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the unaudited pro forma combined financial statements.
 
 
 
1.     Background and Basis of Pro Forma Presentation
 
On May 14, 2010, we completed our acquisition of Varian. Varian designs, develops, manufactures, markets, sells and services scientific instruments (including analytical instruments, research products and related software, consumable products, accessories and services) and vacuum products (including related accessories and services). The acquisition broadens Agilent's applications and solutions offerings in life sciences, environmental, and energy and materials. It also expands Agilent's product portfolio into atomic and molecular spectroscopy; establishes a leading position in nuclear magnetic resonance, imaging and vacuum technologies; and strengthens its consumables portfolio. We expect to realize operational and cost synergies, leverage the existing sales channels and product development resources, and utilize the assembled workforce. These factors, among others, contributed to a purchase price in excess of the estimated fair value of Varian's net identifiable assets acquired (see summary of net assets below), and, as a result, we have recorded goodwill in connection with this transaction.
 
The unaudited pro forma combined financial information was prepared based on the historical financial statements of Agilent and Varian.
 
Our acquisition of Varian has been accounted for in conformity with ASC 805 and uses the fair value concepts defined in Accounting Standards Codification 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures ("ASC 820-10"). ASC 805 requires, among other things, that most assets acquired and liabilities assumed in an acquisition be recognized at their fair values as of the acquisition date and requires that fair value be measured based on the principles in ASC 820-10. ASC 820-10 clarifies that fair value is an exit price, representing the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. ASC 820-10 also requires that a fair value measurement reflect the assumptions market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability based on the best information available.
 
Under ASC 805, acquisition-related transaction costs (e.g., professional fees for legal, accounting, tax, due diligence, valuation and other related services, etc.) are not included as a component of consideration transferred, but are accounted for as expenses in the periods in which the costs are incurred.  Total acquisition-related transaction costs incurred by Varian and Agilent after January 1, 2010 and January 31, 2010, respectively, were approximately $14 million and $23 million, respectively, and are reflected in these unaudited pro forma combined financial statements as an increase to goodwill and a decrease to retained earnings, respectively, and an increase to liabilities.
 
Certain Varian financial statement amounts have been reclassified to conform to Agilent presentation with no impact to the previously reported net income (loss), total assets and total liabilities and equity.
 
2. Purchase Price Allocation
 
The following table summarizes the preliminary allocation of the purchase price to the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the closing date of May 14, 2010 as if the acquisition had occurred on January 31, 2010.
 
 
The identifiable intangible assets of $419 million consist of $222 million of acquired developed product technology, $158 million of customer relationships, $20 million of in-process research and development, $10 million of tradenames/trademarks and $9 million of order backlog. These intangible assets will be amortized using a straight-line method over their expected useful lives ranging from 6 months to 10 years. The estimated goodwill reflected on this pro forma balance sheet is calculated as if the transaction had occurred as of the pro forma balance sheet date and therefore, will be different from the preliminary estimated goodwill reflected above based on the net assets acquired at closing. The goodwill recorded in connection with this transaction is not deductible for income tax purposes.
 
3. Pro forma financial statement adjustments
 
The following pro forma adjustments are included in our unaudited pro forma combined financial statements:
 
 


