FILE:A/A-8K-20110513080423.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
The information in this Item 2.02 of Form 8-K and Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto is furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
On May 13, 2011, Agilent Technologies, Inc.
(the "Company") issued its press release announcing financial results for the second fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2011.  A copy of this press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1.
 
We provide non-GAAP financial information in order to provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance and to enhance our investors' overall understanding of our core current financial performance and our prospects for the future.  We believe that our investors benefit from seeing our results "through the eyes" of management in addition to the GAAP presentation.  Management measures segment and enterprise performance using measures such as those that are disclosed in this release.  This information facilitates management's internal comparisons to the Company's historical operating results and comparisons to competitors' operating results.  Non-GAAP information allows for greater transparency to supplemental information used by management in its financial and operations decision making.  Historically, we have reported similar non-GAAP information to our investors and believe that the inclusion of comparative numbers provides consistency in our financial reporting.
 
This information is not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.  It excludes items, such as restructuring and amortization, that may have a material effect on the Company's expenses and earnings per share calculated in accordance with GAAP.  Management monitors these items to ensure that expenses are in line with expectations and that our GAAP results are correctly stated but does not use them to measure the ongoing operating performance of the Company.  The non-GAAP information we provide may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
 
Additional explanation of non-GAAP information is provided in Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
(d)  Exhibits
 
The following is furnished as an exhibit to this report and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
Date:  May 13, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Amy Flores
+1 408 345 8194
amy_flores@agilent.com
 
INVESTOR CONTACT:
 
Alicia Rodriguez
+1 408 345 8948
alicia_rodriguez@agilent.com
 
Highlights
:
 
                 
GAAP net income of $200 million, or $0.56 per share
                 
Non-GAAP net income of $261 million, or $0.74 per share
(1)
                 
Orders of $1.70 billion, up 27 percent from last year; revenues of $1.68 billion, up 32 percent from one year ago
                 
Third-quarter fiscal year 2011 revenue guidance from $1.64 billion to $1.66 billion. Third-quarter fiscal year 2011 non-GAAP earnings guidance of $0.71 to $0.73 per share
(2)
 compares with $0.54 per share
(1)
 one year ago
                 
Fiscal year 2011 revenue guidance increased to $6.55 billion to $6.60 billion
                 
Fiscal year 2011 non-GAAP earnings guidance increased to $2.84 to $2.88 per share
(2)
 
SANTA CLARA, Calif., May 13, 2011  Agilent Technologies Inc. (NYSE: A) today reported revenues of $1.68 billion for the second fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2011, 32 percent above one year ago, or 21 percent excluding the effects of acquisitions and divestitures
(3)
. Second-quarter GAAP net income was $200 million, or $0.56 per share. Last year's second-quarter GAAP net income was $108 million, or $0.31 per share.
 
During the second quarter, Agilent had intangible amortization of $28 million, acquisition and integration costs of $17 million, and restructuring and transformational charges of $9 million. The company also recognized a tax charge of $9 million. Excluding these items and $2 million of other net benefits, Agilent reported second-quarter adjusted net income of $261 million, or $0.74 per share
(1)
.
 
Bill Sullivan, Agilent president and CEO, said "We had another quarter of excellent results as the growth momentum continued across all our businesses. Demand for Agilent products remained strong, with all key product platforms experiencing double-digit growth for the fourth consecutive quarter."
 
Electronic Measurement revenues were up 19 percent over a year ago. Orders were up 15 percent and revenues were up 26 percent excluding the effects of the Network Solutions divestiture. The business saw solid revenue growth across the communications market and all other market segments.
 
Chemical Analysis revenues were up 60 percent compared with one year ago. Orders were up 22 percent and revenues were up 13 percent on an organic basis. Strong organic growth was led by demand in the petrochemical market.
 
Life Sciences revenues grew 39 percent over last year. Orders grew 21 percent and revenues grew 16 percent on an organic basis led by growth in pharma and biotech.
 
Second-quarter ROIC was 25 percent
(4)
. Agilent generated $378 million of cash from operations in the second quarter. Net cash at the end of the second quarter was $885 million
(5)
.
 
Sullivan said, "We look forward to a strong second half of fiscal year 2011. The continued strength of Agilent's portfolio, our presence in the right growth markets, and our sustained customer loyalty are all indicators of continued success moving forward."
Fiscal third-quarter 2011 revenues are expected to be in the range of $1.64 billion to $1.66 billion. Fiscal third-quarter non-GAAP earnings are expected to be in the range of $0.71 to $0.73 per share
(2)
.
 
For the full fiscal year 2011, Agilent is raising its revenue guidance to $6.55 billion to $6.60 billion and its non-GAAP earnings to $2.84 to $2.88 per share
(2)
.
 
About Agilent Technologies
 
Agilent Technologies Inc. (NYSE: A) is the world's premier measurement company and a technology leader in chemical analysis, life sciences, electronics and communications. The company's 18,500 employees serve customers in more than 100 countries. Agilent had net revenues of $5.4 billion in fiscal 2010. Information about Agilent is available on the Web at www.agilent.com.
 
Agilent's management will present more details about its second-quarter FY2011 financial results on a conference call with investors today at 5:30 a.m. (Pacific). This event will be webcast live in listen-only mode. Listeners may log on at www.investor.agilent.com and select "Q2 2011 Agilent Technologies Inc. Earnings Conference Call" in the "News & Events  Calendar of Events" section. The webcast will remain available on the company's website for 90 days.
 
Additional investor materials can be found on http://www.investor.agilent.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=103274&p=irol-gaap.
 
A telephone replay of the conference call will be available at 8:30 a.m. (Pacific) today through May 20, 2011. The replay number is +1 888 286-8010; international callers may dial +1 (617) 801-6888. The passcode is 20018335.
Forward-Looking Statements
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements as defined in the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is subject to the safe harbors created therein. The forward-looking statements contained herein include, but are not limited to, information regarding Agilent's future revenues, earnings and profitability; the future demand for the Company's products and services; and revenue and non-GAAP earnings guidance for the third quarter and full fiscal year 2011. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties that could cause Agilent's results to differ materially from management's current expectations. Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, unforeseen changes in the strength of our customers' businesses, unforeseen changes in the demand for current and new products and technologies, and the risk that we are not able to realize the savings expected from integration and restructuring activities.
 
In addition, other risks that Agilent faces in running its operations include the ability to execute successfully through business cycles; the ability to meet and achieve the benefits of its cost-reduction goals and otherwise successfully adapt its cost structures to continuing changes in business conditions; ongoing competitive, pricing and gross-margin pressures; the risk that our cost-cutting initiatives will impair our ability to develop products and remain competitive and to operate effectively; the impact of geopolitical uncertainties and global economic conditions on our operations, our markets and our ability to conduct business; the ability to improve asset performance to adapt to changes in demand; the ability of our supply chain to adapt to changes in demand; the ability to successfully introduce new products at the right time, price and mix; the ability of Agilent to successfully integrate Varian, Inc. and other risks detailed in Agilent's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended January 31, 2011. Forward-looking statements are based on the beliefs and assumptions of Agilent's management and on currently available information. Agilent undertakes no responsibility to publicly update or revise any forward-looking statement.
 
(1)
 Non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share are defined to exclude primarily the impacts of acquisition and integration costs, acquisition fair value adjustments, transformation initiatives and restructuring costs, non-cash intangibles amortization as well as disposals of businesses net of their tax effects. A reconciliation between non-GAAP earnings and GAAP net earnings is set forth on page 5 of the attached tables along with additional information regarding the use of this non-GAAP measure.
 
(2)
 Non-GAAP earnings per share as projected for Q311 and full fiscal year 2011 excludes primarily the impacts of acquisition and integration costs, acquisition fair value adjustments, future restructuring, and asset impairment charges and non-cash intangibles amortization. Most of these excluded amounts pertain to events that have not yet occurred and are not currently possible to estimate with a reasonable degree of accuracy. Therefore, no reconciliation to GAAP amounts has been provided. Future amortization of intangibles is expected to be approximately $29 million per quarter.
 
(3)
 Revenues, excluding the impact of acquisitions and divestitures, are a non-GAAP measure and are defined to exclude the fair value adjustment to acquisition related deferred revenue balances for the Varian acquisition and exclude the impact of acquisitions and divestitures that have closed within the past year. A reconciliation between non-GAAP revenues and GAAP revenues is set forth on page 8 of the attached tables along with additional information regarding the use of this non-GAAP measure.
 
(4)
 Return On Invested Capital is a non-GAAP measure and is defined as income (loss) from operations less other (income) expense and taxes, annualized, divided by the average of the two most recent quarter-end balances of assets less net current liabilities. The reconciliation of ROIC can be found on page 7 of the attached tables, along with additional information regarding the use of this non-GAAP measure.
 
(5)
 Net Cash is a non-GAAP measure and is defined as (A) the sum of (1) cash and cash equivalents, (2) restricted cash and cash equivalents and (3) investments  debt securities less (B) the sum of (1) short-term debt and (2) senior notes. The reconciliation of Net Cash can be found on page 9 of the attached tables, along with additional information regarding the use of this non-GAAP measure.
 
NOTE TO EDITORS: Further technology, corporate citizenship and executive news is available on the Agilent news site at www.agilent.com/go/news.
 
 
The preliminary income statement is estimated based on our current information.
 
 
The preliminary income statement is estimated based on our current information.
 
 
The preliminary balance sheet is estimated based on our current information.
 
 
 
The preliminary cash flow is estimated based on our current information.
 
 
 
Historical amounts are reclassified to conform with current period presentation.
 
We provide non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP net income per share amounts in order to provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance and our prospects for the future. These supplemental measures exclude, among other things, charges related to the amortization of intangibles, the impact of restructuring charges, the acquisition of Varian, Inc., and the sale of our businesses. Some of the exclusions, such as impairments, may be beyond the control of management. Further, some may be less predictable than revenue derived from our core businesses (the day to day business of selling our products and services). These reasons provide the basis for management's belief that the measures are useful.
 
Our management uses non-GAAP measures to evaluate the performance of our core businesses, to estimate future core performance and to compensate employees. Since management finds this measure to be useful, we believe that our investors benefit from seeing our results "through the eyes" of management in addition to seeing our GAAP results. This information facilitates our management's internal comparisons to our historical operating results as well as to the operating results of our competitors.
 
Our management recognizes that items such as amortization of intangibles and restructuring charges can have a material impact on our cash flows and/or our net income. Our GAAP financial statements including our statement of cash flows portray those effects. Although we believe it is useful for investors to see core performance free of special items, investors should understand that the excluded items are actual expenses that may impact the cash available to us for other uses. To gain a complete picture of all effects on the company's profit and loss from any and all events, management does (and investors should) rely upon the GAAP income statement. The non-GAAP numbers focus instead upon the core business of the company, which is only a subset, albeit a critical one, of the company's performance.
 
Readers are reminded that non-GAAP numbers are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures. They should be read in conjunction with the GAAP financial measures. It should be noted as well that our non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
 
The preliminary non-GAAP net income and diluted EPS reconciliation is estimated based on our current information.
 
 
Life Sciences
 
 
Chemical Analysis
 
 
Electronic Measurement
 
 
Income from operations reflect the results of our reportable segments under Agilent's management reporting system which are not necessarily in conformity with GAAP financial measures. Income from operations of our reporting segments exclude, among other things, charges related to the amortization of intangibles, the impact of restructuring charges, the acquisition of Varian, Inc., and the sale of our businesses.
 
In general, recorded orders represent firm purchase commitments from our customers with established terms and conditions for products and services that will be delivered within six months.
 
(a)
 Return On Invested Capital is a non-GAAP measure and is defined as income from operations less other (income) expense and taxes, annualized, divided by the average of the two most recent quarter-end balances of assets less net current liabilities. The reconciliation of ROIC can be found on page 7 of these tables, along with additional information regarding the use of this non-GAAP measure.
 
Readers are reminded that non-GAAP numbers are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures.  They should be read in conjunction with the GAAP financial measures.  It should be noted as well that our non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
 
The preliminary segment information is estimated based on our current information.
 
 
 
ROIC calculation:(annualized current quarter segment return)/(average of the two most recent quarter-end balances of Segment Invested Capital)
 
(a)       
Agilent return is equal to non-GAAP net income of $261 million plus net interest expense after tax of $14 million for Q2'11, and $152 million plus net interest expense after tax of $15 million for Q2'10. Please see "Non-GAAP Net Income and Diluted EPS Reconciliations" for a reconciliation of non-GAAP net income to GAAP net income.
(b)       
Segment assets consist of inventory, accounts receivable, property plant and equipment, gross goodwill and other intangibles, deferred taxes and allocated corporate assets.
(c)       
Includes accounts payable, employee compensation and benefits, deferred revenue, other accrued liabilities and allocated corporate liabilities.
 
Return on Invested Capital (ROIC) is a non-GAAP measure that management believes provides useful supplemental information for management and the investor. ROIC is a tool by which we track how much value we are creating for our shareholders. Management uses ROIC as a performance measure for our businesses, and our senior managers' compensation is linked to ROIC improvements as well as other performance criteria.  We believe that ROIC provides our management with a means to analyze and improve their business, measuring segment profitability in relation to net asset investments.  We acknowledge that ROIC may not be calculated the same way by every company.  We compensate for this limitation by monitoring and providing to the reader a full GAAP income statement and balance sheet.
 
Readers are reminded that non-GAAP numbers are merely a supplement to, and not a replacement for, GAAP financial measures.  They should be read in conjunction with the GAAP financial measures.  It should be noted as well that our non-GAAP information may be different from the non-GAAP information provided by other companies.
 
The preliminary reconciliation of ROIC is estimated based on our current information.
 
 
Revenues, excluding the impact of the acquisitions and divestitures, are a non-GAAP measure and are defined to exclude the fair value adjustment to acquisition related deferred revenue balances for the Varian acquisition and exclude the impact of acquisitions and divestitures that have closed within the past year.
 
Management believes that this measure provides useful information to investors by reflecting an additional way of viewing aspects of Agilent's operations that, when reconciled to the corresponding GAAP measures, help our investors to better identify underlying growth trends in our business and facilitate easier comparisons of our revenue performance with prior and future periods and to our peers. We excluded the effect of the Varian and other recent acquisitions and divestitures because the nature, size and number of these can vary dramatically from period to period and between us and our peers, which we believe may obscure underlying business trends and make comparisons of long-term performance difficult.
 
The preliminary revenue information is estimated based on our current information.
 
 
The preliminary reconciliation of net cash is estimated based on our current information.
 
Management believes this metric provides useful information to investors about the Company's overall liquidity and financial position.  Net Cash is a measure at a point in time and does not reflect the Company's future financial prospects or liquidity.


