FILE:A/A-8K-20111122171327.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02
      
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
 
Item 9.01   Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following is filed as an exhibit to this report:
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
SANTA CLARA, Calif., Nov. 17, 2011  Agilent Technologies Inc. (NYSE: A) today announced that Ron Nersesian has been appointed executive vice president and chief operating officer, effective immediately. Nersesian has been president of Agilent's largest business, the Electronic Measurement Group (EMG), since 2009.
 
Nersesian, 52, will have day-to-day responsibility for Agilent's three businesses, Electronic Measurement, Chemical Analysis and Life Sciences, with the presidents of those businesses reporting to him. Nersesian will continue to report to William (Bill) Sullivan, president and chief executive officer.
 
Guy Sn, 56, who has been vice president of the Microwave and Communications Division (MCD) since 2009, will replace Nersesian as EMG president.
Nersesian first joined Hewlett-Packard, Agilent's predecessor company, in 1984. Since then he has served in various management positions, including vice president of the Wireless Business Unit, before being named EMG president.
 
Nersesian holds a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering from Lehigh University and an MBA from New York University's Stern School of Business.
 
"Ron has done a superb job of leading Agilent's electronic measurement business," said Sullivan. "He was responsible for a complete transformation of EMG, resulting in outstanding profitable growth in current as well as emerging markets."
 
Sullivan said, "Ron's appointment as COO is an opportunity for Agilent to leverage the skills of an executive with an exceptional record of business growth, cost improvements and superior return on invested capital even during difficult economic times."
 
"Ron has also built an excellent leadership team, from which we have named the next president of EMG," he added.
 
Sn has been vice president and general manager of MCD since 2009. He has been with the company since 1976, holding a variety of leadership sales and marketing positions throughout the world, including in Europe and Asia.
 
Sn holds a diploma in electronic engineering and an MBA from the Institut d'Administration des Entreprises de Paris and an Executive MBA from the University of Michigan's Ross School of Business.
 
"Guy's leadership of MCD and in EMG's international operations has been consistently marked by outstanding growth and attention to building customer solutions," said Sullivan. "I am confident that his capabilities are well matched to continuing the momentum in EMG."
 
About Agilent Technologies
 
Agilent Technologies (NYSE: A) is the world's premier measurement company and a technology leader in communications, electronics, life sciences and chemical analysis. The company's 18,700 employees serve customers in more than 100 countries. Agilent had net revenues of $6.6 billion in fiscal 2011. Information about Agilent is available at www.agilent.com.
NOTE TO EDITORS: Further technology, corporate citizenship and executive news is available on the Agilent news site at www.agilent.com/go/news.


