FILE:A/A-8K-20120905165049.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K/A
(Amendment No. 1)
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
The Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported): 
June 21, 2012
 
AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code   
(408) 345-8886
 
 
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report.)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.01 Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
 
On June 21, 2012, pursuant to the terms of a share purchase agreement (the Share Purchase Agreement) among Agilent Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Agilent), Agilent Technologies Europe B.V., a limited liability company incorporated under the laws of The Netherlands and a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of Agilent (Agilent Europe), and Delphi S.a.r.l., a Luxembourg private limited liability company that is ultimately controlled by EQT V Limited (Delphi), Agilent Europe completed its acquisition of 100% of the share capital of Dako A/S, a limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Denmark (Dako), for a cash enterprise value of approximately $2,144 million, subject to a post-closing working capital and net debt adjustment.  Following the completion of the acquisition, Dako is a wholly owned subsidiary of Agilent Europe.
On July 5, 2012, Agilent filed a Current Report on Form 8-K stating that it had completed the acquisition of Dako and that the financial statements and pro forma financial information required under Item 9.01 of Form 8-K would be filed within the time period specified in the instructions to Item 9.01 of Form 8-K.  This amended Current Report on Form 8-K contains the required financial statements and pro forma financial information.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(a) Financial Statements of Business Acquired.
 
The audited consolidated financial statements of Dako A/S as of and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 are filed as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
(b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
 
The required pro forma financial information as of and for the six months ended April 30, 2012, for the nine months ended July 31, 2012 and for the year ended October 31, 2011, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following exhibits are attached herewith:
 
2
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
3
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
4

Exhibit 23.1
Consent of Independent Auditors
Board of Directors
Dako A/S:
We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-3 (333-161799) and Form S-8 (333-158096, 333-157002, 333-150873, 333-116400, 333-88864, 333-47024, 333-38194, 333-38080, 333-35016 and 333-91121) of Agilent Technologies Inc. of our report dated September 5, 2012, with respect to the consolidated balance sheet of Dako A/S and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2011 and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the year then ended, which report appears in the Form 8-K of Agilent Technologies Inc. dated September 5, 2012.
Our qualified audit report dated September 5, 2012, contains an explanatory paragraph that states that Dako A/S and subsidiaries did not present comparative consolidated financial information for the year ended December 31, 2010, which is required by International Financial Reporting Standards.
/s/KPMG Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab
Copenhagen, Denmark
September 5, 2012
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
DAKO A/S
 
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
Statement by the board of directors and the Executive management
The Board of Directors and the Executive Management have today approved the consolidated balance sheets of Dako A/S and subsidiaries (the Group) as of December 31, 2011 and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the year then ended.
The consolidated financial statements referred to above have been prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
It is our opinion that the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the Group's financial position at December 31, 2011 and of the results of the Group's operations and cash flows for the year then ended.
Glostrup, Denmark
September 5, 2012
EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT
                        
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
Report of Independent Auditors
To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Dako A/S
We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Dako A/S and subsidiaries (the "Group") as of December 31, 2011 and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the year then ended. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Group's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit.
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes consideration of internal control over financial reporting as a basis for designing audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group's internal control over financial reporting. Accordingly, we express no such opinion. An audit also includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audit provide a reasonable basis for our qualified opinion.
The Group did not present comparative consolidated financial information for the year ended December 31, 2010. Presentation of comparative financial information is required by International Financial Reporting Standards. These consolidated financial statements have been prepared solely for the purpose of meeting the requirements of Rule 3-05 of Regulation S-X.
In our opinion, except for the omission of comparative consolidated financial information as discussed in the preceding paragraph, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Group as of December 31, 2011 and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for the year then ended in conformity with International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board.
/s/KPMG Statsautoriseret Revisionspartnerselskab
Copenhagen, Denmark
September 5, 2012
Consolidated statement of income
Consolidated statement of comprehensive income
1
Consolidated statement of changes in equity
* The value adjustment of derivatives includes a loss of DKK 253 thousand related to assessment of effectiveness.
Hedging reserve
The hedging reserve contains the accumulated net change in the fair value of hedging transactions which meet the criteria for hedging future cash flows where the hedged transaction has yet to be realized.
Translation reserve
The translation reserve contains all the exchange differences arising on translation of the financial statements of units with a functional currency other than DKK, exchange differences relating to assets and liabilities which form part of the Group's net investment in such units, and exchange differences relating to hedging transactions to hedge the Group's net investment in such units.
2
Consolidated balance sheet
3
Consolidated statement of cash flows
4
Notes
Accounting policies
1 Accounting policies
General
The consolidated financial statements for the year ended December 31, 2011 include the financial statements of Dako A/S and its subsidiaries (the Group).
The consolidated financial statements of Dako A/S are presented in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU and as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB).
The consolidated financial statements are prepared based on the Danish statutory annual report for 2011. Compared to the Danish annual report that has been filed with the Danish Business Authority the following changes have been made to the consolidated financial statements:
The consolidated financial statements are presented in Danish kroner (DKK).
Comparative figures are not disclosed in the consolidated financial information for the year ended December 31, 2010 as this is not required for meeting the requirements of Rule 3-05 of Regulation S-X.
Adoption of new and revised IFRSs
IASB has issued the following new standards and interpretations (IFRSs and International Financial Reporting Interpretation Committees (IFRICs) that are not yet effective:
Dako has assessed the impact on the consolidated financial statements from the adoption of these IFRSs that are not yet effective and concluded that it will be insignificant.
Effective from 1 January 2011, Dako A/S has implemented:
5
None of the new standards and interpretations have affected recognition and measurement in 2011 and, thus, not earnings and diluted earnings per share.
Dako does not anticipate any significant impact on the future periods from the adoption on these new IFRSs.
Consolidation
The consolidated financial statements comprise Dako A/S (the Parent Company) and the companies (subsidiaries) controlled by the Parent Company. Control is achieved where the Parent Company directly or indirectly holds more than 50% of the voting rights or otherwise exercises a controlling influence.
The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the basis of the financial statements of the Parent Company and the subsidiaries by combining items of a similar nature and by eliminating intercompany income and expenses, investments, balances and unrealized gains and losses on transactions between the consolidated companies. Account is taken of the deferred tax effect of such eliminations.
Companies which are not subsidiaries but in which Dako A/S holds 20% or more of the voting rights or otherwise exercises a significant influence are regarded as associated companies. The proportionate share of the profits or losses of associated companies is recognized in the income statement according to the equity method. Transactions with consolidated companies, including realized and unrealized gains and losses, are eliminated proportionately.
An overview of subsidiaries and associated companies is shown in note 30, Group overview.
Business combinations
Newly acquired or established companies are recognized in the consolidated financial statements from the time of acquisition. Companies sold or discontinued are recognized in the consolidated income statement until the time of sale or discontinuation.
Acquisitions of new companies over which the Parent Company then exercises a controlling influence are accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. The date of acquisition is the date on which control is transferred to the acquirer. The cost of the acquisition is measured as the fair value, at the date of exchange, of assets given, liabilities incurred or assumed, and equity instruments issued by the acquirer, in exchange for control of the acquiree, plus any costs directly attributable to the combination. The identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of acquired companies are measured at fair value at the time of acquisition. Identifiable intangible assets are recognized if they are separable or derive from a contractual right, and if their fair value can be measured reliably.
Acquired non-current assets (disposal groups) classified as held for sale are recognized at fair value less costs to sell. A restructuring provision is recognized only when it is an existing liability of the acquirer at the acquisition date. The deferred tax effects of the revaluations made are recognized.
Any excess of the cost of the company and the fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired (goodwill) is recognized under intangible assets as goodwill. Goodwill is not amortized but is tested annually for impairment. The first impairment test is carried out before the end of the acquisition year. At the time of acquisition, goodwill is allocated to the cash-generating units which subsequently form the basis for impairment testing. Goodwill and fair value adjustments relating to the acquisition of a foreign unit with a functional currency other than the Group's presentation currency are treated as assets and liabilities of the foreign unit and are translated into the foreign unit's functional currency at the exchange rate on the transaction date. Any excess of fair value over cost (negative goodwill) is recognized in the income statement at the time of acquisition.
If there is uncertainty at the time of acquisition about the measurement of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities acquired, initial recognition is based on provisionally determined fair values. Should it subsequently emerge that the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities had different fair values at the time of acquisition than initially assumed, goodwill is adjusted up to 12 months from the time of acquisition. The effect of the adjustments is recognized in opening equity, and comparative figures are restated. Unless material errors have been made, goodwill is then adjusted only as a result of changes in estimates of conditional purchase prices. However, subsequent realization of deferred tax assets in the acquired company which were not recognized at the time of acquisition will result in the recognition of these tax assets in the income statement and a simultaneous write-down in the carrying amount of goodwill to the amount that would have been recognized had the deferred tax assets been recognized as an identifiable asset at the time of acquisition.
Gains and losses on the disposal of subsidiaries and associated companies are determined as the difference between the sale or
6
discontinuation proceeds and the carrying amount of the net assets including goodwill at the time of sale plus the cost of sale or discontinuation.
Translation of foreign currency
A functional currency is determined for each of the reporting companies in the Group. The functional currency is the currency of the primary economic environment in which the reporting company operates.
Transactions in currencies other than the functional currency are transactions in foreign currency and are translated to the functional currency on initial recognition at the exchange rate at the transaction date. Exchange differences arising between the exchange rates on the transaction date and the settlement date are recognized in the income statement as financial income/expenses.
Receivables, payables and other monetary items in foreign currency are translated at the exchange rate at the balance sheet date. Exchange differences arising between the exchange rates at the balance sheet date and the time when the receivable or payable originated are recognized in the income statement as financial income/expenses.
When including foreign companies with a functional currency other than Dako A/S's presentation currency in the consolidated financial statements, their income statements are translated at the exchange rate at the transaction date and balance sheet items are translated at the exchange rate at the balance sheet date. An average rate for each month is used as the exchange rate at the transaction date unless this gives a materially different effect. Exchange differences arising on the translation of foreign companies' equity at the beginning of the year to the exchange rate at the balance sheet date and on the translation of their income statements from the exchange rate at the transaction date to the exchange rate at the balance sheet date, are recognized directly in equity.
Exchange differences on loans to/from foreign companies which are regarded as part of the overall net investment in the company in question are recognized directly in equity in the consolidated financial statements if the balance is denominated in the functional currency of either the Parent Company or the foreign company.
Derivative financial instruments
Derivative financial instruments are recognized initially at cost. Subsequent to initial recognition, derivative financial instruments are recognized in the balance sheet at fair value calculated according to generally accepted valuation methods. Realized and unrealized value adjustments are recognized in the income statement as financial income/expenses, apart from derivative financial instruments qualifying for hedge accounting. The fair value of interest rate swaps is the estimated amount that the Group would receive or pay to terminate the swap at the balance sheet date, taking into account current interest rates and the current creditworthiness of the swap counterparties.
Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments designated as a cash flow hedge are recognized directly in equity to the extent that the hedge is effective. To the extent that the hedge is ineffective, changes in fair value are recognized in the income statement.
If the hedging instrument no longer meets the criteria for hedge accounting, expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, then the hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively. The cumulative gain or loss previously recognized in equity remains there until the forecast transaction occurs. When the hedged item is a non-financial asset, the amount recognized in equity is transferred to the carrying amount of the asset when it is recognized. In other cases, the amount recognized in equity is transferred to the income statement in the same period as the hedged item affects profit or loss.
Consolidated Income statement
Net sales
Net sales from sales of goods for resale and manufactured goods are recognized in the income statement on the date of the transfer of risk and ownership. Net sales comprise invoiced sales for the year less returned goods, sales taxes mainly comprising value-added tax and price reductions directly related to sales. Net sales also include license and royalty income.
Sale of standardized instruments is included in net sales on the transfer of risk and ownership.
Sale of customized instruments is included in net sales on receipt of the customer's acceptance of risk and ownership.
Revenue from rental agreements is recorded over the term of the rental agreement.
7
Government grants
Government grants include subsidies and financing of development projects as well as investment subsidies, etc.
Subsidies for research and development expenses included in the income statement are recognized under research and development expenses so as to offset the expenses they are compensating.
Subsidies for the purchase of assets and development assets included in the balance sheet are offset against the cost of the assets for which the subsidies are given.
Cost of goods sold
Cost of goods sold includes the cost of raw materials, consumables and goods for resale, direct labor and indirect costs of production, including the cost of operating and depreciating manufacturing facilities, and amortization of know-how. Cost of goods sold also includes any write-down to net realizable value of obsolete and slow-moving items, and royalty expenses relating to sales of goods under a third-party license.
Sales and distribution expenses
Sales and distribution expenses comprise expenses attributable to the distribution, sales and marketing of the Group's products, including salaries, depreciation, other indirect expenses and amortization of customer contracts and relationships.
Research and development expenses
Research and development expenses comprise expenses attributable to the Group's research and development functions, including wages and salaries and maintenance of patents as well as amortization and other indirect expenses.
Research expenses are expensed as incurred.
Development projects which are clearly defined and identifiable, where technical feasibility, adequate resources and a potential future market or internal use can be demonstrated, and where there is an intention to produce, market or sell the project, are recognized as intangible assets provided that there is a connection between expenses incurred and future benefits. Otherwise development expenses are expensed as incurred. If there is any uncertainty about the development of new products, the criteria for capitalization are not deemed to have been met.
Administrative expenses
Administrative expenses comprise the cost of the Group's administrative functions, including the salaries of Management and other administrative staff, office expenses, depreciation and other indirect costs, as well as bad debt provisions and realized losses on receivables.
Other income and expenses
Other income and expenses comprise items of a secondary nature in relation to the Group's activities.
Financial income and expenses
Financial income and expenses include interest income and expenses which are recognized in the income statement at the amounts relating to the financial year.
Financial income and expenses also include the interest element of payments under finance leases, value adjustments of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value, gains and losses on items denominated in foreign currency, and forward exchange contracts and other derivative financial instruments not used for hedging purposes.
Taxation
Dako A/S is covered by the Danish rules on compulsory joint taxation of Danish subsidiaries in the Group. Danish subsidiaries are included in joint taxation from the date they are consolidated in the consolidated financial statements until they are deconsolidated.
Current Danish income tax is distributed by calculating the joint taxation contribution between the jointly taxed companies in proportion to their taxable income. This means that Dako A/S with a tax loss receives a joint taxation contribution from the Danish subsidiary Dako Denmark A/S, which has been able to use this loss to reduce its own taxable profit.
Tax for the year, which comprises current income tax for the year, the joint taxation contribution for the year and change in deferred tax, including as a result of changes in the tax rate, is recognized in the income statement where it can be attributed to net profit for the year, and directly in equity where it can be attributed to items in equity.
8
Pursuant to the joint taxation rules, as the administration company Dako A/S assumes liability for the payment of tax by Dako Denmark A/S to the tax authorities in line with Dako Denmark A/S's payment of joint taxation contributions.
Current tax liabilities and tax receivable are recognized in the balance sheet as tax calculated on the taxable income for the year, adjusted for tax on the taxable income for previous years and for tax paid on account.
Joint taxation contributions due and receivable are recognized in the balance sheet under amounts owed by or due to subsidiaries.
Deferred tax is measured using the balance sheet liability method for all temporary differences between accounting and tax values of assets and liabilities. However, no deferred tax is recognized for temporary differences relating to consolidated goodwill, which is non-tax-deduc-tible, and other items where temporary differences - with the exception of company acquisitions - have arisen at the date of purchase without this having any effect on profit or taxable income. In cases where specification of tax value may be made in accordance with different tax rules, deferred tax is measured on the basis of Management's planned use of the asset or disposal of the liability.
Deferred tax assets, including the tax value of tax loss carry-forwards, are recognized at the value at which they are expected to be used, either through set-off against tax on future earnings or through set-off against deferred tax liabilities within the same legal tax entity and jurisdiction.
Adjustment is made for deferred tax relating to elimination of unrealized intercompany gains and losses.
Deferred tax is measured on the basis of the tax rules and tax rates in the respective countries which, under the legislation in force at the balance sheet date, will be applicable when the deferred tax is expected to be realized as current tax.
Tax arising on the possible sale of subsidiaries is not recognized in the balance sheet unless the shares are expected to be divested within a short period of time.
Consolidated Balance Sheet
Intangible assets
Intangible assets are measured at cost less accumulated amortization and impairment losses. Borrowing costs in respect of construction of major assets are capitalized.
The cost of internally generated intangible assets includes the direct costs of materials and labor. Internally generated intangible assets are capitalized if the criteria for capitalization are deemed to have been met.
When measuring software developed for internal use, external costs related to consultants and software are included as well as internal costs directly related to the development phase. Internal development of software and related costs in connection with major IT projects for internal use are capitalized under completed development projects.
Other development expenses which cannot be shown to have probable future economic benefits for the Group are expensed as incurred.
Intangible assets excluding goodwill and brands are systematically amortized based on an individual assessment of the useful life of the asset.
9
The accounting treatment of goodwill is presented in the section on business combinations.
Know-how
Know-how is recognized at fair value at the date of acquisition and subsequently carried at cost less accumulated amortization and any accumulated impairment losses, while acquired know-how with a finite useful life is measured at historical cost less accumulated amortization and any accumulated impairment losses. Amortization is provided on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life of the know-how.
The valuation of acquired know-how is based on a discounted cash flow model using the after-tax royalty payments (the royalty relief method). Cash flows are discounted on an after-tax basis using the Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) plus a risk premium for the assumed risk inherent in the know-how.
The net present value of the cash flows is increased by an estimated portion of the discounted tax amortization benefit applicable to a potential buyer, based on the tax amortization opportunity available for know-how when bought as a trade and asset purchase. The tax amortization benefit is discounted. This increased value of know-how equals the fair value at the date of acquisition. A deferred tax liability is calculated at the tax rate on the difference between the carrying amount and tax value. The initial recognition of this deferred tax liability increases the amount of goodwill.
The value of know-how is tested for impairment as part of the impairment test.
Brands
Brands are recognized at fair value at the date of acquisition. Subsequently, acquired brands with indefinite useful lives are measured at historical cost less any accumulated impairment losses, while acquired brands with finite useful lives are measured at historical cost less accumulated amortization and any accumulated impairment losses. Amortization is provided on a straight-line basis over the expected useful life of the brand.
The valuation of acquired brands is based on a discounted cash flow model using the after-tax royalty payments (the royalty relief method). Cash flows are discounted on an after-tax basis using the Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) plus a risk premium for the assumed risk inherent in the brand.
The net present value of the cash flows is increased by an estimated portion of the discounted tax amortization benefit applicable to a potential buyer, based on the tax amortization opportunity available for brand names when bought as a trade and asset purchase. The tax amortization benefit is discounted. This increased value of the brand equals the fair value at the date of acquisition. A deferred tax liability is calculated at the tax rate on the difference between the carrying amount and tax value. The initial recognition of this deferred tax liability increases the amount of goodwill.
The value of brands is tested for impairment as part of the impairment test.
Customer contract portfolios and related customer relationships
Customer contract portfolios and related customer relationships are recognized at fair value at the date of acquisition and subsequently carried at cost less accumulated amortization and any accumulated impairment losses. The value is amortized based on the churn rate of the acquired portfolio using the straight-line method.
The valuation of customer contract portfolios and related customer relationships is based on a discounted cash flow model using an estimated split of the acquired revenue in segments and the related churn rates and profitability of the revenue at the time of the acquisition.
A contributory asset charge as a cost or return requirement for assets supporting the intangible asset has been included in the model. Cash flows are discounted on an after-tax basis using the Weighted Average Cost of Capital (WACC) plus a risk premium for the assumed risk inherent in customer contract portfolios and related customer relationships.
The net present value of the cash flows is increased by an estimated portion of the discounted tax amortization benefit applicable to a potential buyer, based on the tax amortization opportunity available for customer contract portfolios and customer relationships when bought as a trade and asset purchase. The tax amortization benefit is discounted. This increased value of customer contract portfolios and related customer relationships equals the fair value at the date of acquisition.
For know-how, brands and customer contract portfolios and related customer relationships, a deferred tax liability is calculated at the tax rate on the difference between the carrying amount and the tax value. The initial recognition of this deferred tax liability increases the amount of goodwill.
10
The value of customer contract portfolios and related customer relationships is tested for impairment as part of the impairment test.
Property, plant and equipment
Land and buildings, plant and machinery, other fixtures and fittings, tools and equipment, and apparatus and instruments leased to customers are measured at purchase price or cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses. Borrowing costs in respect of construction of major assets are capitalized.
Cost comprises the purchase price and expenses related to the purchase up to the time when the asset is ready for use. For assets gene-rated internally, cost includes direct costs of materials, components, subcontractors and labor. The cost of a composite asset is divided between its constituent components, which are depreciated individually if the useful lives of the individual components vary.
Property, plant and equipment are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the expected useful lives of the assets taking account of their anticipated residual value. The useful life of major assets is determined individually, while the useful lives of other assets are determined for groups of similar assets.
The costs of maintaining property, plant and equipment are expensed as incurred, either directly in the statement of comprehensive income or as part of indirect costs of production.
Expenses incurred that significantly increase the value in use of the asset concerned are added to the asset's cost as an improvement and are depreciated over the expected useful life of the improvement.
Gains or losses on the disposal or scrapping of property, plant and equipment are calculated as the difference between the carrying amount and the selling price reduced by dismantling and disposal costs. Gains and losses are included in the statement of comprehensive income under the same items as the associated depreciation.
The Group's rabbits and goats are not recognized as assets as it is not possible to measure cost reliably.
Impairment
The carrying amount of intangible assets and property, plant and equipment is assessed on a regular basis. For goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life or which are not yet available for use, an impairment test is performed once a year. For other assets, specific impairment tests are performed if there are factors indicating that the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the value of expected future cash flows from it. If this test concludes that the value of expected cash flows from the asset will be lower than the carrying amount, the asset is written down to the higher of fair value less selling expenses and value in use. Impairment losses are recognized in the income statement as other income/expenses.
Financial assets
Receivables with a fixed maturity that the Group intends to hold until maturity are measured at amortized cost.
Other financial assets are stated at fair value with any resultant gain or loss recognized in the income statement.
Financial assets are recognized/derecognized on the day they are transferred to/from the Group.
Inventories
Raw materials, consumables and goods for resale are measured at cost plus the cost incurred in bringing the inventories to their present location and condition according to an approximated FIFO principle.
Work in process and manufactured goods are measured at standard cost, which approximates cost calculated according to the FIFO principle. Cost includes the cost of materials and direct labor as well as a share of indirect costs of production, including
11
the cost of operating and depreciating manufacturing facilities. Interest incurred during production is not included in cost.
Inventories are written down to net realizable value if this is lower than the purchase price or cost. The net realizable value is calculated as the expected ordinary selling price less the costs of completion and expenses incurred to make the sale. The net realizable value is usually calculated per product or, alternatively, for similar goods with a similar sales process.
Receivables
Receivables arising in the Group's normal course of business are measured at nominal value less impairment losses to reflect the risk of losses calculated on the basis of an individual evaluation.
Dividends
Any proposed dividend would be presented separately in equity until approved by the Annual General Meeting. The dividend would then be shown as a liability.
Pension liabilities
The Group has entered into defined contribution pension plans and similar agreements with most of the Group's employees. The agreements vary according to statutory, contractual and other local rules.
Payments to these defined contribution plans are recognized in the period to which they relate. Any contributions payable are recognized in the balance sheet under current liabilities.
With respect to other long-term employee benefits, provisions in the balance sheet are calculated as the present value of the expected payments.
The Group has no defined benefit plans.
Other provisions
Liabilities relating to the financial year or previous financial years which are uncertain with respect to size or due date are recognized in the balance sheet under other provisions.
Provisions are recognized where a legal or constructive obligation has been incurred as a result of past events and it is probable it will lead to an outflow of financial resources. It is measured at the "best estimate" of the expenditure to be incurred by Management.
Liabilities other than provisions
Debt to credit institutions, etc. is initially recognized at the value of the amount received less transaction costs paid. Subsequent to initial recognition, financial liabilities are measured at amortized cost, equivalent to the capitalized value when a constant effective rate of interest is used, so that the difference between the amount received and the nominal value is recognized in the income statement over the loan period.
Other liabilities are measured at net realizable value.
Leasing
Dako as lessee
Leases that transfer substantially all risks and rewards incident to ownership of an asset to Dako are classified as finance leases. Other leases are classified as operating leases.
Assets held under finance leases are recognized in the balance sheet at the lower of the asset's fair value at the time of entering into the lease and the present value of the minimum lease payments. The discount rate used in calculating the present value is the internal rate of return laid down in the lease or the Group's alternative loan rate. Assets held under finance leases are depreciated on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful life in the same way as similar assets owned by the Group.
The corresponding lease liability is recognized as a liability in the balance sheet and the interest thereon is recognized in the income statement under financial expenses.
Lease payments under operating leases are expensed as incurred. The total lease payments are disclosed under contingent liabilities.
12
Dako as lessor
For leases an assessment is made as to whether the lease is a finance lease or an operating lease.
The Group has mainly entered into operating leases for instruments with a short duration relative to the life of the asset. Assets leased under operational lease are recognized, measured and presented in the balance sheet as non-current assets. Lease payments relating to operating leases are recognized as income as they fall due for payment.
Assets leased by the Group to customers under leases classified as finance leases are recognized in the balance sheet under receivables at an amount equal to the Group's net investment. Lease payments are accounted for as repayments on the receivable and interest thereon. Expenses incurred in connection with entering into the leases are recognized in the income statement.
Consolidated statement of cash flows
The consolidated statement of cash flows is presented according to the indirect method and shows the composition of the Group's cash flows, divided into operating, investing and financing activities, and the Group's cash and cash equivalents at the beginning and the end of the year.
Cash flows from operating activities are calculated as the Group's operating profit or loss, adjusted for non-cash operating items, change in working capital, financial income/expenses and income taxes.
Cash flows from investing activities include payments in connection with purchases and sales of non-current assets, including investments in companies. For purchases and sales of subsidiaries, the cash selling or purchase price is adjusted for cash in the purchased/sold company under cash flows from investing activities.
Cash flows from financing activities include payments to and from shareholders, the raising of and principal repayments on mortgage debt, and other non-current liabilities.
Cash and cash equivalents as presented in the statement of cash flows include cash less bank overdrafts.
Cash flows denominated in foreign currencies, including cash flows in foreign subsidiaries, are translated at the average exchange rates during the year as an approximation of the rates at the date of payment. Cash and cash equivalents at year-end are translated at the exchange rates at the balance sheet date.
13
Notes
Consolidated Income Statement
2 Accounting estimates and judgments
As part of the preparation of the consolidated financial statements, certain estimates and assumptions are made. These are based on historical experience and other factors that Management considers reasonable under the circumstances, but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. Such assumptions may be incomplete or inaccurate, and unexpected events or circumstances may occur. In addition, the Group is subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual outcomes to deviate from such estimates.
Impairment of assets
Intangible assets are tested annually for impairment irrespective of whether there is any indication of impairment. The impairment test of goodwill and the particularly sensitive associated factors and sensitivity analyses are described in note 10 to the consolidated financial statements.
Inventories
Inventories are measured at cost in accordance with the first-in, first-out method. In Dako, inventories are measured at cost using the standard cost method, which includes normal levels of raw materials, consumables and labor as well as production overheads such as wages and other production expenses. The standard cost method is reviewed on a regular basis to ensure relevant measures of batch volumes, utilization, production lead time, etc. Where the net realizable value is lower than cost, a write-down is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount exceeds its net realizable value. Write-downs are based on an individual assessment of products.
Development costs
Development costs are capitalized if the criteria for such capitalization are deemed to have been met and it is found to be probable that future earnings will cover the development costs. Management has assessed that development costs relating to certain instrument projects continue to meet the conditions for capitalization.
Development of computer software for internal use and other development costs related to significant IT projects for internal use are recognized under intangible assets as Other intangibles.
Trade receivables
Trade receivables are measured at nominal value less impairment losses. The economic situation in Europe has increased Management's focus on the development of the outstanding receivables especially from this region. Factors such as payment terms and market conditions, historical losses and customer type are analyzed by Management when evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for impairment in respect of trade receivables. A geographical split of trade receivables are presented in note 14.
Provisions
It is Dako's normal policy that products are supplied with warranties. Dako has recorded provisions for expected warranty costs based on an analysis of the estimated costs related to product repairs, which are determined based on historical experience of warranty costs and other relevant factors.
Deferred tax
Judgment is required by Management in determining Dako's provision for tax, deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities. On the basis of the coming years' activities and budgets, Management believes that tax assets can be used against future profits. Please refer to note 17 for further information.
14
3 Staff Expenses
Executive Management has bonus schemes that are dependent on specific conditions. Executive Management has also entered into termination agreements with a 12-month period of notice.
4 Depreciation and Amortization
15
The depreciation and amortization include losses of DKK 688 thousand in connection with the disposal of property, plant and equipment.
5 Government Grants
6 Other Income and expenses
Restructuring costs are mainly related to strategic and organizational changes, severance payments for discontinued positions and other strategic initiatives.
7 Financial income
8 Financial expenses
16
9 Tax for the year
* For 2011, DKK 74 million of this is the tax effect of the Danish rules on limitation of interest deductibility.
17
Notes
Consolidated Balance Sheet
10 Intangible Assets
* The Dako brand is considered to have an indefinite useful life since there is no foreseeable limit to the period over which the brand is expected to generate net cash inflows. Factors playing a significant role in determining that the Dako brand has an indefinite useful life are: i) the Dako brand has existed for decades; ii) the Group's strategy is based on the Dako brand; iii) all acquired brands are converted to or co-branded with the Dako brand; and iv) the Dako brand is used in the business-to-business and public segments with low maintenance cost attached.
** Other intangibles include Acquired software, IT development, Patents & acquired rights, and Intangible assets under construction.
Impairment test
Dako prepares a calculation of fair value less cost to sell (the "impairment test") in respect of goodwill and brands (together, the "intangibles") annually or if an indication of impairment exists. The impairment test is prepared at Group level as this represents the lowest level of cash-generating units (CGU) to which the carrying amount of intangibles can be allocated and monitored with any reasonable certainty. This level of allocation and monitoring of intangibles is in accordance with the monitoring for internal management purposes. No impairment losses have been recognized in the year ended December 31, 2011.
The carrying amount of goodwill, brands, know-how and customer contracts and relationships relates to the acquisition of Dako Denmark A/S and underlying subsidiaries effective May 31, 2007 and the acquisition of the Norwegian company InstrumeC AS on August 29, 2008. Know-how, customer contracts and relationships, other intangibles and development costs are amortized and tested for impairment if an indication of impairment exists.
The recoverable amount of the intangibles is measured as the higher of fair value less cost to sell and value in use. Dako's impairment test is prepared as a calculation of fair value less cost to sell using a discounted cash flow model. Future cash flows are based on the budget for 2012, five-year strategy plans including updated market projections for future periods, Earnings Before, Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA), working capital, investments in non-current assets, among
18
other things.
The key assumptions in the impairment test are assumed growth in net sales and the EBITDA margin. In the impairment test at December 31, 2011, the compound annual growth in net sales is 8.6% from 2012 to 2016 and, in subsequent years, including the terminal period, compound annual growth is assumed at 4.7% p.a. The future EBITDA margin is expected to increase to 39-40% in 2016 and onwards driven by revenue growth. The key assumptions applied in the impairment test are used for accounting purposes and should not be considered a forward-looking statement within the meaning of the US Private Securities Litigation Act of 1995 and similar laws in other countries regarding expectations of future developments.
The rate of discount was determined at 10.1% after tax. Uncertainties reflecting historical performance and possible variations in the amount or timing of future cash flows are reflected in the discount rate.
Sensitivity
A sensitivity analysis on the key assumptions of the impairment test shows that compound annual growth in net sales in the years following 2016, including the terminal period, needs to be above 2.5% p.a. with an unchanged EBITDA margin in the level 39-40% before the recoverable amount equals the carrying amount of goodwill.
11 Property, Plant and Equipment
Other fixtures and fittings, tools and equipment include instruments worth DKK 210,098 thousand which are sited at customers' premises under a reagent agreement, as well as finance-leased assets with a net carrying amount of DKK 8,003 thousand.
Leases as lessor
The Group offers instrument leasing under operational leases. Further the Group has entered into reagent agreements with customers, which, according to IFRS, includes an element of operating lease relating to instruments. These agreements have terms up to four years and the customer does not have an option to purchase the instrument at the expiry of the contract period.
Assets placed at the customer site are recognized as non-current assets (Other fixtures and fitting, tools and equipment).
19
The table below breaks down minimum future lease payments under non-cancelable leases:
12 Other non-current financial assets
Other non-current financial assets include loans to third parties of DKK 7,423 thousand, as security for which Dako holds property mortgage deeds. The loan is repayable over 20 years and was established in 2004. The interest is on market terms.
13 Inventories
* Reversal of previously written down inventories which have been, or are now, forecasted to be used within the next 12 months.
14 Trade Receivables
The Group has not received any collateral for receivables.
20
15 Lease Receivables
16 Share Capital
The share capital consists of 86,287,632 A shares, or 84.8%, which carry 10 votes per share, and 15,413,288 B shares, or 15.2%, which carry 1 vote per share. The A shares carry a preferential right to the amount paid plus an annual return of 14%. The remaining earnings will be distributed among the holders of B shares.
Right of first refusal on sale or disposal of the investment
The A shares have a right of first refusal to purchase B shares, or part thereof, in the event of a sale of B shares.
21
Shareholders
The majority shareholder is Delphi S.a.r.l., Luxembourg, which holds 96.7% of the shares. Delphi S.a.r.l. is indirectly owned by EQT V. The remaining 3.3% of the shares are primarily distributed among employees, Management and Board members of Dako A/S.
17 Deferred Tax
Recognition
The majority of the deferred tax liability relates to the fair value adjustment of intangible assets recognized in connection with the acquisition of Dako in 2007.
Deferred tax assets are recognized as assets when it is likely that they will reduce future tax payments within a reasonable period of time.
Deferred tax relates to:
Deferred tax assets not recognized relate to:
18 long-term employee benefits
The Group has various pension plans covering certain groups of employees in various subsidiaries. The pension plans are defined contribution plans and, in certain subsidiaries, the Group has long-term liabilities which will be paid before or on the employees' retirement (other long-term employee benefits).
22
Defined contribution plans
In the case of defined contribution plans, Dako undertakes to pay a defined contribution. These pension plans are funded by premium payments to independent pension companies. Dako has no pension liabilities toward the employees covered by the plan on their retirement.
Pension contributions relating to defined contribution plans are recognized as an expense in the income statement in the qualifying year.
The most important defined contribution plans cover employees in Denmark, the US and France. The expenses for the year relating to defined contribution plans were DKK 42,889 thousand.
The Group has no defined benefit plans.
Other long-term employee benefits
At December 31, 2011, a provision of DKK 8,864 thousand has been recognized to cover other long-term employee benefits in Japan, Italy, Spain, Germany and France. Payment of other long-term employee benefits is conditional upon specified criteria being met.
The expenses for the year relating to other long-term employee benefits were DKK 1,655 thousand.
23
19 Credit institutions
The majority of the Group's debt is regulated by a Senior Facilities Agreement and a Mezzanine Facility Agreement entered into in connection with the acquisition of Dako in May 2007. In addition, Dako has mortgage debt on the buildings in Denmark and the US and minor local facilities in Japan and Italy.
At year-end, the Group had undrawn committed credit facilities under the Senior Facilities Agreement amounting to DKK 66 million. The undrawn committed credit facilities consist of a Revolving Facility Commitment of DKK 66 million and a Capex/R&D Facility Commitment of DKK 0 million. The facilities mature in 2014.
There is no amortization of the DKK-denominated mortgage debt until 2017. There is no amortization of the Senior Facilities Agreement and the Mezzanine Facility Agreement until maturity. The carrying amount of the USD Mezzanine Facility includes capitalized interest of DKK 345 million or 7.5% p.a.
The Senior Facilities and Mezzanine Facility are subject to customary undertakings, covenants and other restrictions. Financial
24
covenants include debt and interest cover ratios as well as cash flows and capital expenditure cover ratios. Dako has always met all covenants.
Collateral in a property in the US has been provided as security for the USD debt in affiliates. No collateral has been provided for the JPY denominated debt in affiliates. For contingent assets and liabilities related to the credit facilities, reference is made to note 28, Contingent assets and liabilities.
At December 31, 2011, loan expenses less amortization amounting to DKK 50 million have been recognized in non-current liabilities.
The Company has entered into interest rate swaps to hedge the interest rate risk on floating-rate interest-bearing debt. See note 28.
20 Finance lease liabilities
Obligations regarding finance leases can be specified as follows:
Finance leases relate mainly to contracts regarding buildings for production facilities and IT. The net book value of the leased assets amounts to DKK 8,003 thousand (note 11).
21 Provisions
The maturities for provisions are expected to be:
Warranties
The warranty provision relates to instruments sold. The provision is based on estimates made from historical warranty data for similar products. The Group expects to use the provision over the next year.
25
Restructuring
Costs for restructuring are mainly related to severance packages. For 2011, the year-end balance was DKK 3,944 thousand.
Other provisions
Other provisions include contingent considerations related to the acquisition of InstrumeC AS of DKK 32,102 thousand and obligations of DKK 7,048 thousand for liabilities expected to be incurred over the next year.
22 OTHER LIABILITIES
Other liabilities include negative fair value of derivatives of DKK 70,600 thousand as well as holiday allowances, VAT, salaries, commissions and bonuses.
26
Notes
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
23 Change in Working Capital
24 Investment in Non-current Assets
25 Cash and Cash Equivalents
27
Notes
Additional notes
26 Contingent Assets and Liabilities
Senior Facilities Agreement and Mezzanine Facility Agreement
When acquired, Dako A/S executed a share pledge over its shares in Dako Denmark A/S as security for the Senior Facilities and a secondary share pledge over these shares as security for the Mezzanine Facility. Dako A/S, Dako Denmark A/S and certain material subsidiaries of Dako Denmark A/S have provided guarantees for Dako A/S's borrowings under the Senior Facilities and Mezzanine Facility. The borrowings and guarantees of those subsidiaries have been secured by security in the form of bank accounts, trade receivables, intercompany receivables, intellectual property rights and certain other assets of Dako A/S and these subsidiaries. In addition, the shares in the material subsidiaries and certain of their subsidiaries have been pledged. The guarantees and securities shall be deemed not to be assumed if and to the extent required to ensure compliance with Danish statutory provisions on unlawful financial assistance.
Contractual obligations
The above rental and lease liabilities relate to non-cancelable operating lease agreements mainly regarding offices and cars. Rental and leasing expenses for the year ended December 31, 2011 amount to DKK 19,700 thousand.
Assets pledged as security
Other guarantees
Pending disputes and litigation
There are a limited number of ongoing disputes which involve companies in Dako. Such disputes may involve claims for compensation and damages. In the opinion of Executive Management, these claims will have no effect on the financial position of the Group beyond what has been recognized in the financial statements.
28
27 Related Party Transactions
Dako A/S was founded on February 25, 2007 by Delphi S.a.r.l., which has the controlling influence in Dako A/S. Furthermore, a number of employees, Management and Board members have acquired shares in Dako A/S. The ultimate controlling party of Dako A/S is EQT V.
Dako A/S has no other related parties with controlling influence.
During the year under review, Dako A/S did not engage in any related party transactions beyond general remuneration to the Board of Directors and the Executive Management. All transactions between related parties take place on an arm's length basis.
Incentive programs
The principal shareholders have offered the Executive Management, Board members and a number of managers in Dako the opportunity to invest in the company through a management participation program.
28 Foreign exchange and interest rate risk, and use of financial instruments
Dako can use financial instruments and derivatives to hedge significant interest rate and foreign exchange risks resulting from the Group's commercial core business. Dako does not use financial instruments or derivatives for speculative purposes. The contractual value of the Group's derivative financial instruments and unrealized gains and losses is specified below.
Financial risks
The Group's financial risk management is based on policies approved by the Board of Directors. The Group may use derivatives to hedge financial risks. Hedging of financial risks is managed at corporate level and is only focused on managing risks arising from the Group's operations and financing. It is not Group policy to take positions in the financial markets.
The financial risk factors primarily comprise foreign exchange, interest rate and credit risks.
Foreign exchange risk
Foreign exchange risk occurs both as a result of imbalance between income and expenses in each foreign currency and because the Group has net assets in a number of foreign subsidiaries.
Subsidiaries outside Denmark mainly do business in local currencies, both internally within the Group and with external partners. Therefore, the majority of the risk relates to translating the income statement of foreign subsidiaries into Danish kroner. It is not Group policy to hedge this risk.
The Group had no material exposure to foreign exchange risk related to receivables and payables in foreign currencies at December 31, 2011 other than related to credit facilities. A translation risk exists when translating intercompany loans and the value of investments in foreign subsidiaries into Danish kroner. It is not Group policy to hedge this risk. The exposure on investments in foreign subsidiaries is shown below.
In 2011, the currencies in which the Group's revenue was denominated decreased by an average of 0.5% relative to the DKK, decreasing revenue by DKK 10 million.
29
Fluctuations in exchange rates may affect the Group to the extent that the interest expenses are not denominated in the same currencies as the revenue. The majority of the risk on foreign exchange stems from the USD debt. If the USD was weakening 10% against the DKK at December 31, 2011, the foreign exchange adjustment of the debt and interest expenses would impact equity and profit or loss for the year by the amounts shown below.
A 10% weakening of the DKK against the USD at December 31, 2011 would have had an equal but opposite effect on equity and net profit.
Interest rate risk
Interest rate risk occurs as a consequence of imbalance between interest-bearing assets and liabilities, and changes in the interest rate influence both the balance sheet and the income statement. Dako uses interest rate swaps (pay fixed rate and receive floating rate) to hedge a part of the floating-rate debt in EUR, USD and DKK. At the end of 2011, the Group's nominal interest-bearing debt (excluding capitalized loan expenses) was DKK 4,636 million, of which DKK 4,633 million was at variable interest rates and DKK 3 million was at fixed interest rates with varying terms. However, the interest rate risk on 74% of the debt has been hedged with interest rate swaps with an average duration of 2.4 years. 80% of the USD-denominated debt and 66% of the EUR-denominated debt have also been hedged. The DKK 251 million mortgage loan has been hedged as well. As a whole, a 1% change in the interest rates at December 31, 2011 would cause a change of DKK 10.4 million in the yearly future interest expenses. The interest rate swaps are adjusted to fair value and recognized directly in equity. The fair value is based on observable current market transactions.
30
Credit risk
The Group's credit risk primarily relates to receivables, securities, cash and cash equivalents, and positive fair values of derivative financial instruments. The balance sheet valuation of all the items mentioned corresponds to the size of the maximum credit risk. The Group has historically not experienced any material loss on receivables, as most customers are public hospitals or laboratories.
Counterparty risks concerning cash and cash equivalents and financial instruments are managed by only entering into agreements with financial institutions which have achieved a satisfactory rating from recognized international credit-rating institutions. Current hedging counterparties are Nordea Bank Finland PLC, Nykredit A/S and Goldman Sachs International.
Liquidity risk
Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they fall due. The Group's approach to managing liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities as they fall due, under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the Group's reputation. The majority of the Group's credit facilities are long-term committed facilities maturing in 2014 and onwards.
Remaining contractual maturity for the Group's non-derivative and derivative financial liabilities:
Assumptions
Fair value hierarchy
Analysis of financial instruments carried at fair value, by valuation method.
The fair value of financial instruments has been determined using discounted cash flow models. The fair value of financial instruments measured at amortized cost is approximately equal to the carrying amount.
Capital management
Dako's capital structure is characterized by an equity ratio of 29%. It is the intention to maintain a substantial equity ratio going forward.
31
The Senior Facilities and the Mezzanine Facility prevent the Group from making distributions unless certain financial tests and other criteria are satisfied. Earnings will therefore be consolidated and, accordingly, it is not the intention to pay out dividends in the near future.
29 Events occurring after the end of the financial year
The owners of Dako decided in December 2011 to invest additional DKK 167 million in the company. The capital increase has been registered by the Danish Business Authority (Erhvervsstyrelsen) in January 2012.
On May 17, 2012, Agilent Technologies Inc. and EQT announced the execution of a definitive agreement for Agilent to acquire Dako. The acquisition was closed on June 21, 2012.
The Board of Directors and Executive Management are not aware of other events subsequent to December 31, 2011 which may have a material impact on the Group's financial position or outlook.
30 Group overview
32

Exhibit 99.2
 
UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL INFORMATION
 
On June 21, 2012, pursuant to the terms of a share purchase agreement (the Share Purchase Agreement) among Agilent Technologies, Inc., a Delaware corporation (Agilent), Agilent Technologies Europe B.V., a limited liability company incorporated under the laws of The Netherlands and a direct, wholly-owned subsidiary of Agilent (Agilent Europe), and Delphi S.a.r.l., a Luxembourg private limited liability company that is ultimately controlled by EQT V Limited (Delphi), Agilent Europe completed its acquisition of 100% of the share capital of Dako A/S, a limited liability company incorporated under the laws of Denmark (Dako), for a cash enterprise value of approximately $2,144 million, subject to a post-closing working capital and net debt adjustment.  Following the completion of the acquisition, Dako is a wholly owned subsidiary of Agilent Europe.
 The acquisition has been accounted for in conformity with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification 805, Business Combinations (ASC 805). Accordingly, the consideration payment of $2,144 million has been allocated on a preliminary basis to assets acquired and net liabilities assumed in connection with the acquisition based on their estimated fair values as of the completion of the acquisition.  These allocations reflect preliminary estimates that were available at the time of the preparation of this Current Report on Form 8-K/A and are subject to change once finalized.
The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements reflect the acquisition of Dako using the acquisition method of accounting. The pro forma adjustments are based upon available information and assumptions that Agilent believes are reasonable. The pro forma adjustments are preliminary and have been prepared to illustrate the estimated effect of the acquisition. Differences between these preliminary estimates (for example estimates as to the value of acquired property, plant and equipment as well as intangible assets) and the final acquisition accounting will occur and these differences could have a material impact on the accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements and the combined companies future results of operations and financial position.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statement of operations for the year ended October 31, 2011, the six months ended April 30, 2012 and the nine months ended July 31, 2012, illustrate the effect of the acquisition of Dako as if it had occurred on November 1, 2010. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statement of operations for the year ended October 31, 2011 combines the historical audited statement of operations of Agilent for the year ended October 31, 2011 and Dako's historical statement of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2011. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statement of operations for the six months ended April 30, 2012 combines the historical unaudited statement of operations of Agilent for the six months ended April 30, 2012 and Dako's historical unaudited statement of earnings for the six months ended March 31, 2012. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statement of operations for the nine months ended July 31, 2012 combines the historical unaudited statement of operations of Agilent for the nine months ended July 31, 2012 (including Dako from June 22, 2012) and Dako's historical unaudited statement of earnings for the eight months ended May 31, 2012. The unaudited statement of earnings for the fourth quarter of Dako's calendar reporting period, October 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011, is included in twelve months ended December 31, 2011 and in the six and eight months ended March 31, 2012 and May 31, 2012. In the three months ended December 31, 2011, Dako reported net revenue of $95 million and a net loss of $29 million.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated balance sheet as of April 30, 2012 is presented as if our acquisition of Dako had occurred on April 30, 2012, combining the historical unaudited balance sheet of Agilent at April 30, 2012 and the historical unaudited balance sheet of Dako at March 31, 2012.
The historical consolidated financial information has been adjusted to give effect to pro forma events that are (i) directly attributable to the acquisition, (ii) factually supportable, and (iii) with respect to the statements of operations, expected to have a continuing impact on the combined results of the companies. These unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements are prepared by management for informational purposes only in accordance with Article 11 of Securities and Exchange Commission Regulation S-X and are not necessarily indicative of future results or of actual results that would have been achieved had the acquisition been consummated as of the dates presented, and should not be taken as representative of future consolidated operating results of Agilent. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements do not reflect any operating efficiencies and/or cost savings that Agilent may achieve, or any additional expenses or costs of integration that it may incur, with respect to the combined companies as such adjustments are not factually supportable at this point in time. The detailed assumptions used to prepare the pro forma financial information are contained in the notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements, and such assumptions should be reviewed in their entirety.
 
1
Agilents fiscal year ended October 31, 2011 and does not differ from Dako's fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 by more than 93 days. As such the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) rules allow a combined presentation of these reporting periods for the purpose of pro forma financial information.
 
Agilents quarter ended April 30, 2012 does not differ from Dako's quarter ended March 31, 2012 by more than 93 days. As such the SEC rules allow a combined presentation of these reporting periods for the purpose of pro forma financial information.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements have been developed from the following sources with the following unaudited adjustments:
U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (U.S. GAAP) financial information for Agilent has been extracted without adjustments from: (i) Agilent's audited consolidated statement of operations for the year ended October 31, 2011, contained in Agilent's Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) on December 16, 2011; (ii) Agilent's unaudited consolidated statement of operations for the six months ended April 30, 2012, and Agilent's unaudited consolidated balance sheet as of April 30, 2012, both contained in Agilent's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on June 4, 2012; and (iii) Agilent's unaudited consolidated statement of operations for the nine months ended July 31, 2012 on Form 10-Q filed with the SEC on September 5, 2012.
International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) financial information for Dako has been extracted without adjustment from: (i) Dako's consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2011, contained in this Form 8-K/A; and (ii) Dako's unaudited consolidated statement of income for the three months ended December 31, 2011, the three months ended March 31, 2012 and the two months ended May 31, 2012 and Dako's unaudited consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2012, both received from Dako management. These financial statements were originally prepared using Danish Krone ("DKK") as the reporting currency, and have been translated into U.S. dollars ("USD") in the pro forma financial information using the methodology and the exchange rates noted below. Certain adjustments have been made to convert the Dako's IFRS financial information to U.S. GAAP and to align Dako's accounting policies with Agilent's U.S. GAAP accounting policies. The basis of these adjustments is explained in the notes to the pro forma financial information.
Dako translated its historical financial information into DKK based upon the requirements of IFRS. Based upon its review of Dako's historical financial statements and understanding of the differences between U.S. GAAP and IFRS, Agilent is not aware of any further adjustments that it would need to make to Dako's historical financial statements relating to foreign currency translation. The pro forma adjustments in the Pro Forma Financial Information have been translated from DKK to USD using historic exchanges rates. The average exchange rates applicable to Dako during the periods presented for the pro forma income statements and the period end exchange rate for the pro forma balance sheet are as follows:
 
        
The pro forma financial information should be read in conjunction with:
the accompanying notes to the pro foma financial information;
2
AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
 
(in millions)
(unaudited)
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements.
3
AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
 
PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
 
(in millions, except per share amounts)
 
(unaudited)
 
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements.
4
AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
 
(in millions, except per share amounts)
(unaudited)
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements.
5
AGILENT TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
 
(in millions, except per share amounts)
 
(unaudited)
 
The accompanying notes are an integral part of the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements.
 
6
Agilent Technologies, Inc.
 
Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Consolidated Financial Statements
1.     Background
 
On June 21, 2012, we completed our acquisition of Dako, a Denmark-based cancer diagnostic company. Dako provides antibodies, reagents, scientific instruments and software primarily to customers in pathology laboratories to raise the standards for fast and accurate diagnostic answers for cancer patients. Dako also collaborates with a number of major pharmaceutical companies to develop new potential pharmacodiagnostics, also called companion diagnostics, which may be used to identify patients most likely to benefit from a specific targeted therapy.
We expect to realize revenue synergies, leverage and expand the existing sales channels and product development resources, and utilize the assembled workforce. The company also anticipates opportunities for growth through expanded geographic and customer segment diversity and the ability to leverage additional products and capabilities. These factors, among others, contributed to a purchase price in excess of the estimated fair value of Dako's net identifiable assets acquired, and, as a result, we have recorded goodwill in connection with this transaction.
2.     Basis of Pro Forma Presentation
 
 The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statement of operations for the year ended October 31, 2011, the six months ended April 30, 2012 and the nine months ended July 31, 2012, illustrate the effect of the acquisition of Dako, as discussed in Note 3, as if it had occurred on November 1, 2010. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statement of operations for the year ended October 31, 2011 combines the historical audited statement of operations of Agilent for the year ended October 31, 2011 and Dako's historical statement of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2011. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statement of operations for the six months ended April 30, 2012 combines the historical unaudited statement of operations of Agilent for the six months ended April 30, 2012 and Dako's historical unaudited statement of earnings for the six months ended March 31, 2012. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statement of operations for the nine months ended July 31, 2012 combines the historical unaudited statement of operations of Agilent for the nine months ended July 31, 2012 (including Dako from June 22, 2012) and Dako's historical unaudited statement of earnings for the eight months ended May 31, 2012. The unaudited statement of earnings for the fourth quarter of Dako's calendar reporting period, October 1, 2011 to December 31, 2011, is included in twelve months ended December 31, 2011 and in the six and eight months ended March 31, 2012 and May 31, 2012. In the three months ended December 31, 2011, Dako reported net revenue of $95 million and a net loss of $29 million.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated balance sheet as of April 30, 2012 is presented as if our acquisition of Dako had occurred on April 30, 2012, combining the historical unaudited balance sheet of Agilent at April 30, 2012 and the historical unaudited balance sheet of Dako at March 31, 2012.
Our acquisition of Dako has been accounted for in conformity with ASC 805 and uses the fair value concepts defined in Accounting Standards Codification 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures (ASC 820-10). ASC 805 requires, among other things, that most assets acquired and liabilities assumed in an acquisition be recognized at their fair values as of the acquisition date and requires that fair value be measured based on the principles in ASC 820-10. ASC 820-10 clarifies that fair value is an exit price, representing the amount that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. ASC 820-10 also requires that a fair value measurement reflect the assumptions market participants would use in pricing an asset or liability based on the best information available.
 
Under ASC 805, acquisition-related transaction costs (e.g., professional fees for legal, accounting, tax, due diligence, valuation and other related services, etc.) are not included as a component of consideration transferred, but are accounted for as expenses in the periods in which the costs are incurred.  Total acquisition-related transaction costs incurred by Agilent after April 30, 2012 were approximately $27 million and are reflected in these unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements as a decrease to retained earnings and an increase to liabilities.
 
3.     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
The pro forma condensed combined consolidated information has been compiled in a manner consistent with the accounting policies adopted by Agilent. Adjustments were made for the differences between IFRS and U.S. GAAP, as set out further in Note 6, together with adjustments arising as part of acquisition accounting. Apart from these adjustments, the accounting policies of Dako were not deemed to be materially different from those adopted by Agilent.
7
4. Purchase Price Allocation
 
The following table summarizes the preliminary allocation of the purchase price of $2,144 million to the estimated fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed on the closing date of June 21, 2012 as if the acquisition had occurred on April 30, 2012 (in millions).
 
The identifiable intangible assets of $738 million consist of $287 million of acquired developed product technology, $140 million of customer relationships, $183 million of in-process research and development and $128 million of tradename. These intangible assets will be amortized over their expected useful lives from 4 to 12 years. The estimated goodwill reflected on this pro forma balance sheet is calculated as if the transaction had occurred as of the pro forma balance sheet date and therefore, will be different from the preliminary estimated goodwill reflected above based on the net assets acquired at closing. The goodwill recorded in connection with this transaction is not deductible for income tax purposes.
The amounts above are considered preliminary and are subject to change once Agilent receives certain information it believes is necessary to finalize its determination of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed under the acquisition method. Thus these amounts are subject to refinement, and additional adjustments to record fair value of all assets acquired and liabilities assumed may be required.
 
5. Pro forma financial statement adjustments
 
The following pro forma adjustments are included in our unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements:
 
[A] To reflect $2,144 million of cash paid in connection with the acquisition of Dako by Agilent.
[B] To adjust Dako's inventory to an estimated fair value of $91 million.
[C] To adjust Dako's property, plant and equipment to an estimated fair value of $140 million.
[D] To eliminate Dako's historical goodwill of $599 million and record the preliminary estimate of goodwill for our acquisition of Dako of $1,404 million.
[E] To eliminate Dako's historical intangible assets, net, of $589 million and record the preliminary estimate of intangible assets for our acquisition of Dako of $738 million.
[F] To eliminate $450 million of Dako's historical shareholders equity and to reflect the $13 million of non-recurring acquisition-related transaction costs and $14 million of non-recurring currency loss on derivatives contracts incurred by Agilent after April 30 2012 and recorded as an increase to liabilities and a decrease to retained earnings.
[G] To eliminate $743 million of Dako's outstanding short-term and long-term debt repaid on acquisition.
[H] To eliminate Dako's historical deferred tax liability of $147 million associated with its historical intangible assets and record the preliminary estimate of $199 million.
[I] To record the difference in amortization of the preliminary fair value and historical amount of Dako's intangible assets, net as follows:
8
 
[J] To eliminate non recurring acquisition related transaction costs of $13 million in the nine months ended July 31, 2012.
[K] To record the estimated decrease interest income of $2 million for the year ended October 31, 2011 and $1 million for both the six and nine months ended April 30, 2012 and July 31, 2012 at the average yield of 0.09 percent due to the reduction in cash used for the acquisition.
[L] To record the estimated decrease in Dako's net interest expense as a result of the repayment of debt of $46 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, $20 million for the six months ended March 31, 2012 and $27 million in the eight months ended May 31, 2012.
[M] To record an estimated decrease in currency losses associated with U.S. dollar denominated debt as a result of repayment. Currency losses decreased by $12 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, $6 million for the six months ended March 31, 2012 and $40 million for the eight months ended May 31, 2012.
[N] To eliminate the $14 million of currency loss on derivatives contracts entered into for the acquisition purchase price.
[O] To eliminate $10 million of inventory fair value adjustment amortized in the nine months ended July 31, 2012.
[P] To record the tax effect of the pro forma adjustments calculated at the applicable blended statutory rate of 27%.
9
6. Reconciliation of Dako historical condensed combined consolidated financial statements from IFRS to US GAAP
The historical financial statements of Dako are prepared in accordance with IFRS as issued by IASB. IFRS is similar to US GAAP except as shown below in the unaudited reconciliation below in millions:
Consolidated statement of operations:
 
10
Consolidated statement of operations:
11
Consolidated balance sheet:
12
Certain balances were reclassified from the Dako financial statements so that their presentation would be consistent with Agilent. Dako's reporting currency for its historical financial information is the DKK. The U.S. GAAP financial information has been translated from DKK to USD using historic average exchange rates applicable to Dako during the periods presented for the Pro Forma Income Statements and the period end exchange rate for the Pro Forma Balance Sheet.
[a] Research and Development Costs
Research and development costs have been reclassified to cost of goods sold in accordance with Agilent accounting policy. Therefore an adjustment has been made in the U.S GAAP statement of operations of $4 million for the year ended December 31, 2011, $3 million for the six months ended March 31, 2012 and $4 million for the eight months ended May 31, 2012.
[b] Development Costs
Under IFRS, Dako capitalized development costs of new products, new product versions and technologies with significant enhancements in accordance with International Accounting Standard ("IAS") 38, "Intangible Assets". Agilent's policy is to expense such costs as incurred in accordance with ASC 730, "Research and Development". Therefore an adjustment has been made in the U.S. GAAP balance sheet of $53 million to eliminate certain intangible assets, as of March 31, 2012, and adjustments of $21 million, $11 million and $19 million in the U.S. GAAP statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2011, the six months ended March 31, 2012 and the eight months ended May 31, 2012, respectively, to expense these development costs to research and development as incurred.
[c] Restructuring Costs
An adjustment has been made in the statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2011 in respect of accrued restructuring costs for $3 million for termination payments for which there was a timing difference in recognition between IAS 37, "Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent Assets" and Agilent accounting policy.
[d] Reclassification of financial income and financial expense
Adjustments have been made to reclassify financial income and financial expense to interest income, interest expense and other income (expense), net in accordance with Agilent accounting policy.
[e] Income taxes
Adjustments to current and deferred taxes have been recorded at the statutory rate of 25 percent in effect during the periods for which the U.S. GAAP income statements are presented. A reduction in the deferred tax liability of $13 million was recorded to the adjustments presented in the U.S. GAAP balance sheet. Income tax expense of $6 million, $2 million and $5 million was recorded in the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended December 31, 2011, the six months ended March 31, 2012 and the eight months ended May 31, 2012, respectively with respect to the adjustments presented in the U.S. GAAP statements of operations.
[f] Equity
The $40 million adjustment relates to the impact of U.S. GAAP balance sheet adjustments to retained earnings.
13


