FILE:DLTR/DLTR-8K-20031216103422.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On December 12, 2003, Dollar Tree Stores, Inc, announced in a press release the appointment of Thomas E. Whiddon to the Company's Board of Directors.
A copy of the press release is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by this reference.
The information contained in this item is being furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
DATE: December 16, 2003

Exhibit 99.1
CHESAPEAKE, Va.  December 12, 2003  Macon F. Brock, Jr., Chairman of the Board of Dollar Tree Stores, Inc. (NASDAQ: DLTR), announced that Thomas E. Whiddon has been appointed to its Board of Directors. He also has been appointed to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors.
Mr. Whiddon, age 51, served as Executive Vice President of Logistics and Technology for home-improvement retailer Lowe's Companies, Inc., until his retirement in March 2003. Prior to being named to this position, he served as Lowe's Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, and previously held various senior level financial, treasury and tax positions during his 29-year career with firms such as Zale Corporation, Inc, Eckerd Corporation and KPMG LLP. Mr. Whiddon's appointment brings the size of Dollar Tree's Board to nine.
"The Board is excited to welcome a person of Tom's character and professionalism," Brock commented. "He brings a tremendous combination of skills and experience spanning areas key to our business. He will bring a fresh perspective to Dollar Tree's logistics and technology focus. He also adds pertinent and extensive financial expertise, having served as a Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of highly successful public retail companies, and from his years in public accounting."
Dollar Tree Stores, Inc. is the nation's leading $1.00 discount variety store chain, offering a vast array of products including housewares, seasonal goods, food, toys, party goods, personal accessories, books, candles and more. The company operates 2,511 stores in 47 states as of November 1, 2003, as well as 8 distribution centers.


