FILE:DLTR/DLTR-8K-20031007171552.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
.
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
Dollar Tree Stores, Inc. has released a business update for the third quarter of fiscal 2003, which is available via a recorded telephone announcement beginning today, October 7 after 5:00 PM EDT and continuing through Friday, October 11. The recorded announcement may be accessed by calling (757) 321-5TRE.
The text of that recorded announcement is included below:
Thank you for calling the Dollar Tree business update hotline. This is Eric Coble, Chief Financial Officer.
The information on this call about our future expectations, plans and prospects constitutes forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including national and international events, consumer spending, and others described in our recent Annual Report, Current Report, and Quarterly Report on file with the SEC. This information is current only as of the date presented, and we will not update this information until our official quarterly sales release scheduled for Thursday, November 6, before market open.
th
Our stated plan for the fiscal third quarter, which runs from August 3 through November 1, is for total sales to be in the range of $665 to $680 million. The mid-point of this range equates to slightly positive comparable-store sales growth. Through October 5th, the Company's sales can be characterized as on-plan, and we therefore reaffirm this range of $665-680 million.
rd
st
As of September 30, 2003, we operated 2,491 stores in 47 states, compared to 2,179 stores in 38 states at September 30, 2002.
th
th
On Wednesday, October 8, 2003, we will be holding our 3 annual investor conference. The conference will be webcast live on our website, , and will remain available for one week following the conference.
rd
www.dollartree.com
This hotline will next be updated on Monday, January 5, 2004.
th
Thank you and have a nice day.
The information contained in this item is being furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Commission's Regulation FD. Such information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
A WARNING ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS:
This document contains "forward-looking statements" as that term is used in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements address future events, developments and results, including our anticipated sales and comparable-store sales. For a discussion of the risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could affect our future events, developments or results, you should carefully review the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Business" sections in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed March 28, 2003, as well as the risk factors appearing on pages 3-4 of the Annual Report. In light of these risks and uncertainties, the future events, developments or results described by our forward-looking statements in this document could turn out to be materially and adversely different from those we discuss or imply.
We are not obligated to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements contained in this filing to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence of future events and you should not expect us to do so.
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
DATE: October 7, 2003


