FILE:DLTR/DLTR-8K-20040105170056.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
.
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure
Dollar Tree Stores, Inc. has released a business update for the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003, which is available via a recorded telephone announcement beginning today, January 5 after 5:00 PM EDT and continuing through Friday, January 9. The recorded announcement may be accessed by calling (757) 321-5TRE.
The text of that recorded announcement is included below:
Thank you for calling the Dollar Tree business update hotline. This is Eric Coble, Chief Financial Officer.
The information on this call about our future expectations, plans and prospects constitutes forward-looking statements under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Our actual results may differ materially from those indicated by these forward-looking statements as a result of various important factors, including national and international events, consumer spending, and others described in our recent Annual Report and Quarterly Report on file with the SEC. This information is current only as of the date presented, and we will not update this information until our official quarterly sales release scheduled for Thursday, February 5, before market open.
th
Our stated plan for the fiscal fourth quarter, which runs from November 2 through January 31, is for total sales to be in the range of $880 to $905 million. This represents a range of comparable-store sales growth of flat to up 3%. Through January 5, the Company's sales can be characterized as on-plan. We now believe sales for the quarter will most likely be in the range of $885 to $900 million.
nd
st
th
As of December 31, 2003, we operated 2,527 stores in 47 states, compared to 2,263 stores in 41 states at December 31, 2002.
st
st
This hotline will next be updated on Tuesday, April 6, 2004.
th
Thank you and have a nice day.
The information contained in this item is being furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Commission's Regulation FD. Such information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
A WARNING ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS:
This document contains "forward-looking statements" as that term is used in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements address future events, developments and results, including our anticipated sales and comparable-store sales. For a discussion of the risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could affect our future events, developments or results, you should carefully review the "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and "Business" sections in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed March 28, 2003, as well as the risk factors appearing on pages 3-4 of the Annual Report. In light of these risks and uncertainties, the future events, developments or results described by our forward-looking statements in this document could turn out to be materially and adversely different from those we discuss or imply.
We are not obligated to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements contained in this filing to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this report or to reflect the occurrence of future events and you should not expect us to do so.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
DATE: January 5, 2004


