FILE:DLTR/DLTR-8K-20040331160203.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON D.C. 20549 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 Date of Report: March 31, 2004 Date of Earliest Event Reported: March 31, 2004 DOLLAR TREE STORES, INC. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) COMMISSION FILE NUMBER: 0-25464 VIRGINIA 54-1387365 (State or other jurisdiction of (I.R.S. Employer incorporation or organization) Identification No.) 500 Volvo Parkway Chesapeake, VA 23320 (Address of principal executive offices) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (757) 321-5000
Item 9. Regulation FD Disclosure. Today, Dollar Tree Stores, Inc. issued a press release announcing that its Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Secretary, Frederick C. Coble, plans to transition to a newly expanded position of Corporate Secretary. Dollar Tree also announced its nationwide search for a new Chief Financial Officer. A copy of the press release is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by this reference. The information contained in this item is being furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing. 2
SIGNATURES Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized. DATE: March 31, 2004 DOLLAR TREE STORES, INC. By: /s/ Frederick C. Coble -------------------------------- Frederick C. Coble Chief Financial Officer

Exhibit 99.1 Dollar Tree Stores' CFO Plans Orderly Transition to Position of Corporate Secretary CHESAPEAKE, Va.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--March 31, 2004--Dollar Tree Stores Inc.(NASDAQ: DLTR), today announced that Frederick Coble, Chief Financial Officer and Corporate Secretary, would move to the newly expanded position of Corporate Secretary later this year after an orderly transition. The Company is launching a nationwide search for a new CFO, with plans to complete the search before Mr. Coble's transition to the new position. "Eric has played a significant role in building Dollar Tree Stores into a national company and the retail leader in the single price point category," CEO Bob Sasser said. "The Company has strong operating momentum, a solid balance sheet and a consistent history of earnings growth. Eric will continue to serve the company as CFO and help us identify a talented successor over the next few months. In addition to his role as Corporate Secretary, he will serve as a resource for special projects and analysis as we continue to grow." "Dollar Tree Stores has grown to a national company since I became CFO and Corporate Secretary five years ago," Coble said, "and I am confident that the Company will continue to enhance its category-leading position well into the future. The Corporate Secretary job has grown over time and now requires my full attention. I will continue to function as CFO while working closely with Bob to identify a new CFO and facilitate a smooth and efficient transition." Dollar Tree Stores Inc. is the nation's leading operator of single-price point dollar stores. As of January 31, 2004, Dollar Tree operated 2,513 stores in 47 states. The Company also operates a coast-to-coast logistics network of nine distribution centers. Dollar Tree is a member of the NASDAQ 100 index. CONTACT: Dollar Tree Stores, Inc., Chesapeake Erica Robb or Adam Bergman, 757-321-5000 http://www.DollarTree.com


