FILE:DLTR/DLTR-8K-20050913165405.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (
see
General Instruction A.2. below):
On September 13, 2005, Dollar Tree Stores, Inc. issued a press release providing an update on the effects of Hurricane Katrina. A copy of the press release is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by this reference.
On September 13, 2005, Dollar Tree Stores, Inc. issued a press release regarding the Companys participation in the Susquehanna International Groups Retail Focus Forum being held
September 15, 2005. A copy of the press release is attached to this Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.2 and is incorporated herein by this reference.
The information contained in this item is being furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission. Such information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section. The information shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
 
2
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
DATE:  September 13, 2005
 
 
3
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
CHESAPEAKE, Va. - September 13, 2005 -
Dollar Tree Stores, Inc. (NASDAQ: DLTR), the nations largest $1.00 discount variety store chain,
today released an update concerning the effects of Hurricane Katrina.
Of the forty-six Dollar Tree stores that were initially closed by the effects of Hurricane Katrina, thirty-one are now open for business. At this point in time, the Company does not believe there will be any material, adverse change to the most recent quarterly sales guidance.
It is too early to comment on the extent of losses. Preliminary inspections indicated heavy damage to 8 of the remaining 15 unopened stores. After complete inspections of the remaining 7 stores, the Company will be able to estimate the full extent of the hurricane losses and potential effect on earnings for the third and fourth quarters of fiscal 2005.
The Companys primary focus has been the safety and support of our associates. We have contacted and accounted for most of them, and we continue to support them in their recovery efforts.
Dollar Tree will
provide
additional information on our regular, pre-recorded business update which is scheduled for October 6, 2005.
Dollar Tree operated 2,856 stores in 48 states as of July 30, 2005.
A WARNING ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS: This press release contains "forward-looking statements" as that term is used in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements address future events, developments or results and typically use words such as believe, anticipate, expect, intend, plan, forecast, or estimate. For example, our forward-looking statements include statements about the effect of Hurricane Katrina. For a discussion of the risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could affect our future events, developments or results, you should carefully review the "Risk Factors," "Business," and "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" sections in our Annual Report on Form 10-K filed April 14, 2005 and the Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations section of our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed September 8, 2005. Also, carefully review "Risk Factors" in our most recent prospectuses filed November 15, 2000 and August 3, 2000. In light of these risks and uncertainties, the future events, developments or results described by our forward looking statements in this document could turn out to be materially and adversely different from those we discuss or imply. We are not obligated to release publicly any revisions to any forward looking statements contained in this press release to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this report and you should not expect us to do so.
 

Exhibit 99.2
CHESAPEAKE, Va. - September 13, 2005 - Dollar Tree Stores, Inc. (NASDAQ: DLTR), the nation's leading
operator of single-price point dollar stores
, will participate in the Susquehanna International Groups Retail Focus Forum being held on September 15, 2005, at The Waldorf Astoria Hotel in New York City. Dollar Trees presentation is scheduled for Thursday, September 15, at approximately 11:00 am EDT. Kent Kleeberger, Dollar Trees Chief Financial Officer, will discuss the Companys business and growth plans. A live audio-only web cast of the Companys presentation at the SIG conference will be available on Dollar Trees web site, www.DollarTree.com/medialist.cfm. A replay will be available within 24 hours of the presentation and can be accessed at the same location. This replay will be available until midnight Monday, September 19, 2005.
 
 


