FILE:DLTR/DLTR-8K-20071004163844.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
                 Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
                 Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
                 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
                 Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On October 4, 2007, Dollar Tree Stores, Inc. issued a press release announcing that the companys Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of an additional $500 million of its common stock.  A copy of the press release is attached to this Form 8-K as and is incorporated herein by this reference.
Exhibit 99.1
The information contained in this item, including that incorporated by reference, is being furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission.  Such information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section.  The information shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c)         Exhibits.
99.1           
Press Release dated October 4, 2007 issued by Dollar Tree Stores, Inc.
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
CHESAPEAKE, Va.  October 4, 2007 Dollar Tree Stores, Inc. (NASDAQ: DLTR), the nation's leading operator of single-price point dollar stores, today announced that its Board of Directors has authorized the repurchase of an additional $500 million of its common stock. Stock repurchases may be made, from time-to-time, either in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions, at management's discretion, depending on market conditions and other factors, in accordance with Securities and Exchange Commission requirements. This authorization is in addition to the November 2006 repurchase authorization, of which the Company has approximately $99 million remaining available to expend.
-
 
The Company has demonstrated the continual ability to self-fund store growth, as well as other initiatives, while generating substantial free cash, said President and CEO Bob Sasser.  Accordingly, the Board of Directors has approved the increased level of stock repurchase activity, as recommended by management, as part of our continued commitment to reward our long-term shareholders.
 
Dollar Tree Stores operates 3,334 stores in 48 states as of August 4, 2007.
 
A WARNING ABOUT FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS:  This press release contains "forward-looking statements" as that term is used in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward looking statements address future events, developments or results and typically use words such as believe, anticipate, expect, intend, plan, forecast, or estimate. For example, our forward-looking statements include statements regarding our intentions to repurchase stock, our future cash flow and our ability to fund future growth. For a discussion of the risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could affect our future events, developments or results, you should carefully review the Risk Factors, "Business," and Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations sections in our Annual Report on Form 10 - K filed April 4, 2007 and our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed September 12, 2007. In light of these risks and uncertainties, the future events, developments or results described by our forward looking statements in this document could turn out to be materially and adversely different from those we discuss or imply. We are not obligated to release publicly any revisions to any forward looking statements contained in this press release to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this report and you should not expect us to do so.
Return to Form 8K



