FILE:DLTR/DLTR-8K-20110622162928.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departures of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(e) Compensatory Arrangements.
At the 2011 Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Dollar Tree, Inc. held on June 16, 2011, Dollar Trees shareholders approved the Omnibus Incentive Plan (the Omnibus Plan).  The Plan replaces and supersedes the 2003 Equity Incentive Plan, the 2004 Executive Officer Equity Plan, 2003 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan and the 2004 Executive Officer Cash Bonus Plan, except that any awards granted under the prior plans shall continue to be governed by the terms and conditions of such plans.
The Omnibus Plan provides for the grant of incentive stock options, nonqualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock awards, restricted stock units, performance bonuses, performance units, non-employee director stock options and other equity-related awards.  A description of the material terms of the Omnibus Plan is provided in Dollar Trees 2011 Proxy Statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 16, 2011.  In addition, the full text of the Omnibus Plan is attached as Exhibit 10.1, which is incorporated herein by reference.
On June 16, 2011, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors (the Committee) adopted new forms of awards agreements for use under the Omnibus Plan, which are attached hereto as Exhibits 10.2, 10.3 and 10.4, and incorporated herein by reference.  The Committee intends to use the awards granted to executives to focus and reward them on the achievement of pre-established long-term performance goals set by the Committee and to better align executive pay with shareholders interests.
On June 16, 2011, the Committee approved the following target award values under the Omnibus Plan, to be effective on July 1, 2011, for the following Named Executive Officers: Bob Sasser, $400,000; Gary M. Philbin, $250,000; Kevin S. Wampler, $200,000; Robert H. Rudman, $200,000; and James Fothergill, $100,000.  The target award is divided equally between cash and Restricted Stock Units and the target number of Restricted Stock Units will be calculated by dividing the target Restricted Stock Unit award value by the fair market value of a share of Dollar Tree stock on July 1, 2011.
Each Named Executive Officer will have the opportunity to earn an amount between zero percent (0%) and two hundred percent (200%) of his individual target award based on performance against the three-year cumulative operating income goal for the performance period beginning on January 30, 2011 and ending on February 1, 2014.  Provided the vesting conditions are satisfied, the awards will vest at the end of the performance period upon certification by the Committee.
 
 
 
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
The Companys Annual Meeting of Shareholders was held on June 16, 2011.  The following items were voted on by shareholders and listed below are the final voting results:
 
1. The shareholders elected the following individuals to the Board of Directors:
   
 
 
2. The shareholders approved, on an advisory basis, the compensation of the named executive officers disclosed pursuant to the compensation disclosure rules of the Securtities and Exchange Commission, including the Compensation Discussion and Analysis, the compensation tables and related narrative discussion set forth in the Proxy Statement filed on May 16, 2011.
   
 
3. The shareholders approved, on an advisory basis, a one-year frequency of future advisory votes on our Executive Compensation program.
   
 
 
4. The shareholders approved the Dollar Tree, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan.
   
 
 
5. The shareholders ratified the appointment, by the Audit Committee, of KPMG LLP as Dollar Tree, Inc.'s Independent Registered Public Accounting firm for 2011.
   
 
 
 
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)         Exhibits.
Exhibit 10.1 - Omnibus Incentive Plan
Exhibit 10.2 - Form of Long-Term Performance Plan Award Agreement
Exhibit 10.3 - Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement
Exhibit 10.4 - Form of Non-Employee Director Option Agreement
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
Exhibit 10.1 - Omnibus Incentive Plan
Exhibit 10.2 - Form of Long-Term Performance Plan Award Agreement
Exhibit 10.3 - Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement
Exhibit 10.4 - Form of Non-Employee Director Option Agreement

 
Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
 
1. Establishment, Purpose and Term of Plan.
   
 
1.1
 
  The Dollar Tree, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan (the "Plan") is hereby established effective as of March 17, 2011, being the date the Plan was adopted by the Board (the "Effective Date").  The Plan was approved by the shareholders of the Company on June 16, 2011 (the "Approval Date").  The Plan constitutes the merger of the Dollar Tree, Inc. 2003 Equity Incentive Plan, the Dollar Tree, Inc. 2003 Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan and the Dollar Tree, Inc. 2004 Executive Officer Equity Plan (the "Prior Plans") effective as of the Approval Date.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, all grants of any awards under the Prior Plans before the Approval Date shall be governed under the terms and conditions of the Prior Plans.  This Plan also replaces and supersedes the 2004 Executive Officer Cash Bonus Plan (the Cash Bonus Plan) as of the Approval Date; , all grants of any awards under the Cash Bonus Plan before the Approval Date shall be governed under the terms and conditions of the Cash Bonus Plan.
Establishment.
provided, however
 
1.2
 
The purposes of the Plan are to (i) advance the interests of the Company and its shareholders by providing incentives to attract, retain and reward persons performing services for the Member Companies; (ii) to motivate Participants, by means of appropriate incentives, to contribute to the growth and profitability of the Member Companies; (iii) provide incentive compensation opportunities that are competitive with those of similar companies; and (iv) further identify Participants interests with those of the Companys shareholders through compensation that is based on the Companys stock.  The Company intends that Awards granted pursuant to the Plan be exempt from or comply with Section 409A, and the Plan shall be construed and interpreted as necessary to achieve that intent.
Purpose.
 
 
1.3
 
The Plan shall continue in effect until its termination by the Committee; , that, to the extent required by applicable law, all Awards shall be granted, if at all, within ten (10) years from the date the Plan is adopted by the Board.
Term of Plan.
 
provided, however
 
2. Definitions and Construction.
   
 
2.1
 
Whenever used herein, the following capitalized terms shall have their respective meanings set forth below:
Definitions.  
 
(a)
 
means (i) an entity, other than a Parent Corporation, that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediary entities, controls the Company or (ii) an entity, other than a Subsidiary Corporation, that is controlled by the Company directly or indirectly through one or more intermediary entities.  For this purpose, the term "control" (including the term "controlled by") means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of the relevant entity, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise.
"
Affiliate
"
 
 
(b)
 
means any Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock Award, Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Bonus, Performance Unit, or Other Award granted under the Plan.
"Award"
 
 
(c)
 
means a written or electronic agreement between the Company and a Participant setting forth the terms, conditions and restrictions of the Award granted to the Participant.
"Award Agreement"
 
 
(d)
 
means the Board of Directors of the Company.
"Board"
 
 
(e)
 
means, unless such term or an equivalent term is otherwise defined with respect to an Award in the Participants Award Agreement or by a written contract of employment or service, any of the following: (i) the Participants theft, dishonesty, willful misconduct, breach of fiduciary duty for personal profit, or falsification of any Member Company documents or records that has a material adverse effect on a Member Company; (ii) the Participants material failure to abide by a Member Companys code of conduct or other policies (including, without limitation, policies relating to confidentiality and reasonable workplace conduct); (iii) the Participants unauthorized use, misappropriation, destruction or diversion of any tangible or intangible asset or corporate opportunity of a Member Company (including, without limitation, the Participants improper use or disclosure of a Member Companys confidential or proprietary information); (iv) any intentional act by the Participant which has a material detrimental effect on a Member Companys reputation or business; (v) the Participants repeated failure or inability to perform any reasonable assigned duties after written notice from a Member Company of, and a reasonable opportunity to cure, such failure or inability; (vi) any material breach by the Participant of any employment, service, non-disclosure, non-competition, non-solicitation or other similar agreement between the Participant and a Member Company, which breach is not cured pursuant to the terms of such agreement; or (vii) the Participants conviction (including any plea of guilty or nolo contendere) of any criminal act involving fraud, dishonesty, misappropriation or moral turpitude which has a material adverse effect on a Member Company or which impairs the Participants ability to perform his or her duties with a Member Company.
"Cause"
 
 
 
 
 
(f)
 
means, unless such term or an equivalent term is otherwise defined in the Award Agreement of a Participant who is not a named executive officer as defined under Item 402(a)(3) of Regulation S-K of the Exchange Act, the occurrence of any of the following:
"Change in Control"
 
 
(i)
 
The sale, exchange or other transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (in one transaction or in a series of related transactions) to a corporation that is not controlled by the Company; or
 
(ii)
 
The liquidation or dissolution of the Company; or  
 
(iii)
 
A successful tender offer for the Stock of the Company, after which the tendering party holds more than 50% of the issued and outstanding Stock of the Company; or
 
(iv)
 
A merger, consolidation, share exchange, or other transaction to which the Company is a party pursuant to which the holders of all the shares of Stock outstanding prior to such transaction do not hold, directly or indirectly, at least 50% of the outstanding shares of the surviving company after the transaction.
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing:
 
(i)
 
With respect to an Employee who entered into a retention agreement with the Company prior to the date the Companys shareholders first approve this Plan, the term Change in Control shall have the meaning set forth in such retention agreement and no provision of this Plan shall abrogate any provision or right set forth in such retention agreement; and
 
(ii)
 
To the extent that any amount constituting Section 409A Deferred Compensation would become payable under this Plan by reason of a Change in Control, such amount shall become payable only if the event constituting a Change in Control would also constitute a change in ownership or effective control of the Company or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company within the meaning of Section 409A and Treasury Regulations  1.409A-3(i)(5)(v), (vi) & (vii).
 
(g)
 
means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any applicable regulations promulgated thereunder.
"Code"
 
(h)
 
means a committee appointed by the Board pursuant to Section 3 of the Plan.
"Committee"
 
 
(i)
 
means Dollar Tree, Inc., a Virginia corporation, or any successor corporation thereto.
"Company"
 
(j)
 
means a natural person engaged to provide consulting or advisory services (other than as an Employee or a Director) to a Member Company.
"Consultant"
 
(k)
 
means an Employee who is a "covered employee" as defined under Section 162(m).
"Covered Employee"
 
 
(l)
 
means a member of the Board.
"Director"
 
 
(m)
 
means the permanent and total disability of a person within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code.
"Disability"
 
 
(n)
 
means the right of a Participant, granted at the discretion of the Committee or as otherwise provided by the Plan, to receive a credit for the account of such Participant in an amount equal to the cash dividends paid on one share of Stock for each share of Stock represented by an Award held by such Participant.
"Dividend Equivalent Right"
 
 
(o)
 
means any natural person treated as a common law employee in the personnel records of a Member Company.  The Company shall determine in the exercise of its discretion whether an individual has become or has ceased to be an Employee and the effective date of such individuals employment or termination of employment, as the case may be.  For purposes of an individuals rights, if any, under the terms of the Plan as of the time of the Companys determination of whether or not the individual is an Employee, all such determinations by the Company shall be final, binding and conclusive as to such rights, if any, notwithstanding that the Company or any court of law or governmental agency subsequently makes a contrary determination as to such individuals status as an Employee.   Service as a Director or payment of a directors fee by a Member Company shall not be sufficient to constitute "employment" by a Member Company.
"Employee"
 
(p)
 
means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
"Exchange Act"
 
 
 
 
(q)
 
means, as of any date, the value of a share of Stock determined as follows:
"Fair Market Value"
 
(i)
 
If the principal market for the Stock is a national securities exchange or the NASDAQ Stock Market, then the "Fair Market Value" as of that date shall be the closing sale price of the Stock on the principal exchange or market on which the Stock is then listed or admitted to trading on such date.
 
(ii)
 
If sale prices are not available or if the principal market for the Stock is not a national securities exchange and the Stock is not quoted on the NASDAQ Stock Market, the average between the highest bid and lowest asked prices for the Stock on such day as reported on the NASDAQ OTC Bulletin Board Service or by the National Quotation Bureau, Incorporated or a comparable service.
 
(iii)
 
If the day is not a business day, and as a result, paragraphs (i) and (ii) next above are inapplicable, the Fair Market Value of the Stock shall be determined as of the immediately preceding business day.  If paragraphs (i) and (ii) next above are otherwise inapplicable, then the Fair Market Value of the Stock shall be determined in good faith by the Committee subject to the applicable requirements, if any, of Section 409A of the Code.
 
(r)
 
means an Option intended to qualify (as set forth in the Award Agreement) as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422(b) of the Code.
"Incentive Stock Option"
 
(s)
 
means an Officer, a Director of the Company or other person whose transactions in Stock are subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act.
"Insider"
 
(t)
 
means the written policy of the Company pertaining to the purchase, sale, transfer or other disposition of the Companys equity securities by Directors, Officers, Employees or other service providers who may possess material, nonpublic information regarding the Company or its securities.
"Insider Trading Policy"
 
 
(u)
 
means the Company, any Parent Corporation or Subsidiary Corporation and, to the extent designated by the Board, any Affiliate.
"Member Company"
or
"Member Companies"
 
(v)
 
means a procedure by which the Participant will be issued a number of whole shares of Stock upon the exercise of an Option determined in accordance with the following formula:
"Net-Exercise"
 
 
 
N = X(A-B)/A, where
 
 
"N" = the number of shares of Stock to be issued to the Participant upon exercise of the Option;
 
 
"X" = the total number of shares with respect to which the Participant has elected to exercise the Option;
 
 
"A" = the Fair Market Value of one (1) share of Stock determined on the exercise date; and
 
 
"B" = the exercise price per share (as defined in the Participants Award Agreement)
 
(w)
 
means a Director who, as of the day following each years date of the annual shareholders meeting, is not an Employee of a Member Company or an Affiliate.
"Non-Employee Director"
 
 
(x)
 
means a Nonstatutory Stock Option granted to a Non-Employee Director under Section 6.7 of the Plan.
"Non-Employee Director Option"
 
(y)
 
means an Option not intended to be (as set forth in the Award Agreement), or which does not qualify as, an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422(b) of the Code.
"Nonstatutory Stock Option"
 
 
(z)
 
means any person designated by the Board as an officer of the Company or a Member Company.
"Officer"
 
 
(aa)
 
means a right granted under Section 6 to purchase Stock pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Plan.
"Option"
 
 
(bb)
 
means any present or future "parent corporation" of the Company, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code.
"Parent Corporation"
 
(cc)
 
means any eligible person under Section 5 who has one or more outstanding Awards.
"Participant"
 
 
 
 
(dd)
 
means an Award of a cash bonus under Section 10 of the Plan.
"Performance
Bonus"
 
(ee)
 
means one or more criteria that the Committee shall select for purposes of setting performance goals for a Performance Period.  The Performance Criteria that will be used to establish such performance goals may be based on any one of, or combination of, the following relating to a Member Company or Affiliate:  (i) earnings per share; (ii) earnings (including EBIT or EBITDA); (iii) net earnings; (iv) total shareholder return; (v) return on equity; (vi) return on assets; (vii) return on investment; (viii) return on capital employed; (ix) operating margin; (x) gross margin; (xi) operating income; (xii) pre-tax profit; (xiii) operating cash flow; (xiv) revenue; (xv) revenue growth; (xvi) expenses; (xvii) improvement in or attainment of expense levels; (xviii) improvement in or attainment of working capital levels; (xix) economic value added; (xx) market share; (xxi) cash flow per share; (xxii) share price performance; and (xxiii) debt reduction. Partial achievement of the specified criteria may result in the payment or vesting corresponding to the degree of achievement only as specified in writing by the Committee.
"Performance Criteria"
 
 
(ff)
 
means one or more fiscal years of the Company, or such other specific period of time set by the Committee, over which the attainment of one or more performance goals will be measured for the purpose of determining a designated Covered Employees right to and the payment of an Award.
"Performance Period"
 
(gg)
 
means an Award of Stock subject to such restrictions and Vesting Conditions as established by the Committee pursuant to Section 8 of the Plan.
"Restricted Stock Award"
 
(hh)
 
means a right granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 9 of the Plan to receive the value of a share of Stock on a date determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 9 and the Participants Award Agreement.
"
Restricted Stock Unit"
 
(ii)
 
means Rule 16b-3 under the Exchange Act, as amended from time to time, or any successor rule or regulation.
"Rule 16b-3"
 
(jj)
 
means Section 162(m) of the Code and any successor provision.
"Section 162(m)"
 
(kk)
 
means Section 409A of the Code and any successor provision.
"Section 409A"
 
 
(ll)
 
means compensation provided pursuant to the Plan that constitutes deferred compensation subject to and not exempted from the requirements of Section 409A.
"Section 409A Deferred Compensation"
 
 
(mm)
 
means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
"Securities Act"
 
(nn)
 
means a Participants employment or service with the Member Companies, whether in the capacity of an Employee, a Director or a Consultant.  Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, a Participants Service shall not be deemed to have terminated merely because of a change in the capacity in which the Participant provides service to the Member Companies or a transfer between Member Companies, provided that there is no interruption or termination of the Participants Service.  Furthermore, a Participants Service shall not be deemed to have terminated if the Participant takes any military leave, sick leave, or other bona fide leave of absence approved by the Company; provided that for purposes of determining whether an Option is an Incentive Stock Option, an Employees Service will be treated as terminating three (3) months after such Employee went on a leave (or for an Employee with a Disability, one (1) year after such Employee went on leave), unless such Employees right to return to active employment is guaranteed by statute or contract.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise designated by the Company or required by law, a leave of absence shall not be treated as Service for purposes of determining vesting under the Participants Award Agreement.  A Participants Service shall be deemed to have terminated either upon an actual termination of Service or upon the corporation for which the Participant performs Service ceasing to be a Member Company.  Subject to the foregoing, the Company, in its discretion, shall determine whether the Participants Service has terminated and the effective date of and reason for such termination.
"Service"
 
(oo)
 
means the common stock of the Company, as adjusted from time to time in accordance with Section 4.5.
"Stock"
 
(pp)
 
means an Award, granted alone or in tandem with an Option, that pursuant to Section 7 of the Plan is designated as a Stock Appreciation Right.
"Stock Appreciation Right"
 
(qq)
 
means any Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock Award, and Restricted Stock Unit or, to the extent designated by the Committee in an Award Agreement, any Performance Unit or Other Award.
"Stock Award"
 
 
(rr)
 
means any present or future "subsidiary corporation" of the Company, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code.
"Subsidiary Corporation"
 
(ss)
 
mean those conditions established in accordance with the Plan prior to the satisfaction of which shares subject to an Award remain subject to forfeiture or a repurchase option in favor of the Company upon the Participants termination of Service.
"Vesting Conditions"
 
 
2.2
 
  Captions and titles contained herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of any provision of the Plan.  Except when otherwise indicated by the context, the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular.  Use of the term "or" is not intended to be exclusive, unless the context clearly requires otherwise.
Construction.
 
 
 
 
3. Administration.
   
 
3.1
 
  The authority to operate and administer the Plan shall be vested in a committee appointed by the Board.  The Committee shall consist solely of two or more members of the Board who are "outside directors" as defined under Section 162(m), "non-employee directors" as defined under Rule 16b-3, and meet such independence, or other required listing standards, of any applicable securities exchange that is the principal trading market for the Stock or such other requirements of applicable law as the Board determines in its discretion from time to time are necessary for the Committee to administer of the Plan. The initial Committee will be the Compensation Committee of the Board.  If, at any time, there is no committee of the Board then authorized or properly constituted to administer the Plan, the Board shall exercise all of the powers of the Committee granted herein, and, in any event, the Board may in its discretion exercise any or all of such powers of the Committee at any time.
Committee.
 
3.2
 
In addition to any other powers set forth in the Plan and subject to the provisions and limitations of the Plan, the Committee shall have the full and final power and authority, in its discretion:
Powers of the Committee
.
 
 
(a)
 
To select from the persons eligible under Section 5.1 those who will receive Awards under the Plan;
 
(b)
 
To determine the type of Award granted, the time or times at which Awards shall be granted and the number of shares of Stock to be subject to each Award;
 
(c)
 
To determine the Fair Market Value of shares of Stock pursuant to the terms of the Plan;
 
(d)
 
To determine the terms, conditions and restrictions applicable to each Award (which need not be identical) and any shares of Stock acquired pursuant thereto, including, without limitation, (i) the exercise or purchase price of shares of Stock pursuant to any Award; (ii) the method of payment for shares purchased pursuant to any Award; (iii) the method for satisfaction of any tax withholding obligation arising in connection with an Award, including by the withholding or delivery of shares of Stock; (iv) the timing, terms and conditions of the exercisability or vesting of any Award or any shares acquired pursuant thereto; (v) the time of the expiration of any Award, (vi) the effect of the Participants termination of Service on any of the foregoing; and (vii) all other terms, conditions and restrictions applicable to any Award or shares of Stock acquired pursuant thereto not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan;
 
(e)
 
To determine whether an Award will be settled in shares of Stock, cash, or in any combination thereof;
 
(f)
 
To approve from time to time the form of any documents, including but not limited to one or more forms of Award Agreement as it deems advisable for use in the operation and administration of the Plan;
 
(g)
 
To amend, modify, extend, cancel or renew any Award or to waive any restrictions or conditions applicable to any Award or any shares acquired upon the exercise thereof;
 
(h)
 
To accelerate, continue, extend or defer the exercisability of any Award or the vesting of any shares acquired upon the exercise thereof, including with respect to the period following a Participants termination of Service;
 
(i)
 
To prescribe, amend or rescind rules, guidelines and policies relating to the Plan, or to adopt sub-plans or supplements to, or alternative versions of, the Plan, including, without limitation, as the Committee deems necessary or desirable to comply with the laws or regulations of or to accommodate the tax policy, accounting principles or custom of, foreign jurisdictions whose citizens may be granted Awards; and
 
(j)
 
To correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or any Award Agreement and to make all other determinations and take such other actions with respect to the Plan or any Award as the Committee may deem advisable to the extent not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan or applicable law.
 
In controlling and managing the operation and administration of the Plan, the Committee shall take action in a manner that conforms to the Articles of Incorporation and By-Laws of the Company and any applicable state corporate law.  All questions of interpretation of the Plan, of any Award Agreement or of any other form of agreement or other document employed by the Company in the administration of the Plan or of any Award shall be determined by the Committee and such determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive upon all persons having an interest in the Plan or such Award.  Any and all actions, decisions and determinations taken or made by the Committee in the exercise of its discretion pursuant to the Plan, an Award Agreement or other agreement thereunder shall be final, binding and conclusive upon all persons having an interest therein.
 
3.3
 
.  Except to the extent prohibited by applicable law or the applicable rules of a stock exchange, the Committee may allocate all or any portion of its responsibilities and powers to any one or more of its members and may delegate all or any portion of its responsibilities and powers to any Officer selected by it; provided it may not delegate authority to grant Awards to Covered Employees or Insiders except to the extent such delegation complies with Section 162(m) or Rule 16b-3, as applicable.  To the extent the Committee delegates authority to any Officer, or any sub-committee containing one or more Officers, to grant Awards to Employees, who are neither Covered Employees nor Insiders, such Officer shall not participate in any decision regarding any grant of an Award to himself or herself.  Any allocation or delegation of authority by the Committee may be revoked by the Committee at any time.
Delegation By Committee
 
 
 
 
3.4
 
.  The Company and Member Companies shall furnish the Committee with such data and information as it determines may be required for it to discharge its duties. The records of the Company and Member Companies as to a Participant's employment, termination of employment, leave of absence, reemployment and compensation shall be conclusive on all persons unless determined to be incorrect.  Participants and other persons entitled to benefits under the Plan must furnish the Committee such evidence, data or information as the Committee considers desirable to carry out the terms of the Plan.
Information to be Furnished to Committee
 
4. Shares Subject to Plan.
   
 
4.1
 
Subject to adjustment as provided in Sections 4.2 and 4.5, the aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be delivered under the Plan to Participants and their beneficiaries shall be equal to the sum of (i) Two Million (2,000,000) shares of Stock; (ii) any shares of Stock available for future awards under the Prior Plans after the Approval Date; and (iii) any shares of Stock that are represented by awards granted under the Prior Plans which are forfeited, expire or are cancelled without delivery of shares of Stock, or which result in the forfeiture of the shares of Stock back to the Company, after the Approval Date.  The shares of Stock to which Stock Awards may be made shall consist of currently authorized but unissued shares, treasury shares, shares of Stock acquired by the Company, including shares purchased on the open market or in private transactions, or any combination thereof.
Maximum Number of Shares Issuable
.
 
 
4.2
 
.  To the extent any shares of Stock of an outstanding Stock Award are not delivered to a Participant or beneficiary because for any reason all or part of a Stock Award is forfeited or cancelled, or if shares of Stock acquired pursuant to a Stock Award subject to forfeiture or repurchase are forfeited or repurchased by the Company for an amount not greater than the Participants purchase price, then the shares of Stock allocable to the terminated portion of such Stock Award or such forfeited or repurchased shares of Stock shall not be deemed to have been delivered for purposes of determining the aggregate number of shares of Stock under Section 4.1 that may be delivered to Participants and their beneficiaries.  Shares of Stock shall not be deemed to have been delivered pursuant to the Plan with respect to any portion of a Stock Award that is settled in cash.  If the exercise price of any Option granted under the Plan or a Prior Plan is paid by tender to the Company, or attestation to the ownership, of shares of Stock owned by the Participant, or by means of a Net-Exercise, solely the net number of shares of Stock actually delivered to the Participant shall be deemed delivered for purposes of determining the maximum number of shares deliverable under Section 4.1.  Shares of Stock withheld or reacquired by the Company in satisfaction of tax withholding obligations pursuant to Section 15 shall again be available for delivery under the Plan and shall not reduce the number of shares available under Section 4.1.
Share Counting
 
4.3
 
  The following limitations are imposed on the applicable Awards granted under the
Limitations.
Plan:
 
(a)
 
Options to Employees shall be Four Hundred and Fifty Thousand (450,000) shares. To the extent required under the Code, the maximum number of shares of Stock available to grant Incentive Stock Options shall not be adjusted as required under Section 4.2 of the Plan.
The maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock available to grant Incentive Stock
 
(b)
 
to any one individual shall be Four Hundred and Fifty Thousand (450,000) shares during any one fiscal year period.  If an Option is granted in tandem with a Stock Appreciation Right, such that the exercise of the Option or Stock Appreciation Right with respect to a share of Stock cancels the tandem Stock Appreciation Right or Option right, respectively, with respect to such share, the tandem Option and Stock Appreciation Right with respect to each share of Stock shall be counted as covering but one share of Stock for purposes of applying the limitations of this paragraph (b).
The maximum number of shares available to grant Options or Stock Appreciation Rights
 
(c)
 
For Restricted Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Unit Awards that are intended to be "performance-based compensation" (as that term is used for purposes of Code section 162(m)), no more than Two Hundred and Fifty Thousand (250,000) shares of Stock may be subject to such Awards granted to any one individual during any one fiscal year period.  If, after shares have been earned, the delivery is deferred, any additional shares attributable to dividends during the deferral period shall be disregarded.
 
(d)
 
(as that term is used for purposes of Code section 162(m)), no more than Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000)  may be subject to such Awards granted to any one individual during any one fiscal year period.  If, after amounts have been earned with respect to Performance Unit Awards, the delivery of such amounts is deferred, any additional amounts attributable to earnings during the deferral period shall be disregarded.
For Performance Unit Awards that are intended to be "performance-based compensation"
 
 
 
 
(e)
 
term is used for purposes of Code Section 162(m)), no more than Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000) shall be payable to any one individual for a fiscal year; , that the maximum Performance Bonus payable to any eligible individual that becomes designated for a Performance Bonus after beginning of a Performance Period shall be reduced on a pro rata basis for the number of days during the fiscal year that the individual was not a Covered Employee designated by the Committee as eligible for a Performance Bonus.
For Performance Bonuses that are intended to be "performance-based compensation" (as that
provided, however
 
(g)              For Option grants to Non-Employee Directors under Section 6.7 of the Plan, no more than Seven Hundred and Fifty Thousand (750,000) shares of Stock shall be available for such grants and the number of shares subject to Options granted to each Non-Employee Director on each Grant Date (as defined under Section 6.7) shall be Thirteen Thousand Five Hundred (13,500); , that the Board may reduce this amount or adopt a formula to determine the number of shares subject to Options to be granted; , that the number of such shares may not be increased over Thirteen Thousand Five Hundred (13,500) without shareholder approval.  Options which may be granted to Non-Employee Directors pursuant to Section 6.7 of the Plan are in addition to any Options which may also be issued to such Non-Employee Directors in lieu of annual fee payments under this Plan.
provided, however
provided, further
 
(h)              The foregoing limitations will be adjusted proportionately in connection with any adjustments described in Section 4.5below.
 
 
4.4
 
The Committee may designate whether any Award being granted to any Participant is intended to be "performance-based compensation" as defined under Section 162(m).  Any payment of cash, right to shares of Stock or any other distribution of property under any Award designated as performance-based compensation shall be conditioned on the attainment by a Participant of one or more pre-established objective performance goals which shall be set by the Committee based on the Performance Criteria in accordance with the requirements of Section 162(m).  No Award that is designated as "performance-based compensation" by the Committee under the terms of the Plan shall be provided or paid to any Participant unless and until the material terms of the Plan have been disclosed and approved by the shareholders of the Company as required from time to time under Treasury Regulation Section 1.162-27(e)(4) or such applicable successor provisions.
Performance Criteria.
 
 
4.5
 
corporate transaction or event such as a stock dividend, recapitalization, stock split, reverse stock split, reorganization, merger, consolidation, spin-off, combination or other similar corporate transaction or event affecting the Stock with respect to which Awards have been or may be issued under the Plan (any such transaction or event, a "Transaction").  To prevent the dilution or enlargement of benefits or potential benefits intended to be made available under the Plan, in the event of any change to the Stock effected without receipt of consideration through a Transaction, then the Committee shall, in such manner as the Committee deems equitable: (A) make a proportionate adjustment in (a) the maximum number and type of securities as to which Awards may be granted under this Plan, (b) the number and type of securities subject to outstanding Awards, (c) the grant or exercise price with respect to any such Award, (d) the performance targets and goals appropriate to any outstanding Awards, and (e) the per individual limitations on the number of securities that maybe awarded under the Plan (any such adjustment, an "Antidilution Adjustment"); provided, in each case, that with respect to Incentive Stock Options, no such adjustment shall be authorized to the extent that such adjustment would cause such Options to violate Section 422(b) of the Code or any successor provision; with respect to all Options, no such adjustment shall be authorized to the extent that such adjustment violates the provisions of Treasury Regulation 1.424-1; with respect to all Awards, no adjustment shall be authorized to the extent such adjustment would violate Section 409A or any successor provisions; with respect to all Awards, no such adjustment shall violate the requirements applicable to Awards intended to qualify for exemption under Section 162(m) of the Code; and the number of shares of Stock subject to any Award denominated in shares shall always be a whole number; or (B) cause any Award outstanding as of the effective date of the Transaction to be cancelled in consideration of a cash payment or alternate Award (whether from the Company or another entity that is a participant in the Transaction) or a combination thereof made to the holder of such cancelled Award substantially equivalent in value to the fair market value of such cancelled Award.  The determination of fair market value shall be made by the Committee or the Board, as the case may be, in their sole discretion.  Any fractional share resulting from an adjustment pursuant to this Section shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number, and the exercise price per share shall be rounded up to the nearest whole cent.  In no event may the exercise price of any Award be decreased to an amount less than the par value, if any, of the stock subject to the Award.  For purposes of the foregoing, conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be treated as effected without receipt of consideration by the Company. Any adjustments made hereunder shall be binding on all persons having an interest herein.
Adjustments for Changes in Capital Structure.
 
The existence of the Plan, any Award or any Award Agreement shall not affect or restrict the right or power of the Company or its shareholders to make or authorize a
 
5. Eligibility.
   
 
5.1
 
.  Employees, Consultants and Directors are eligible to receive Awards under the Plan.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Incentive Stock Options may be granted solely to Employees; solely Non-Employee Directors may be granted Options under Section 6.7 of the Plan; and Performance Bonuses may be granted solely to Covered Employees.  In the case of the grant of an Incentive Stock Option, a person who owns more than 10% of the total combined voting power of all classes of outstanding stock of the Company or a Parent Corporation or any Subsidiary Corporation shall not be eligible to hold such Incentive Stock Option unless (i) the exercise price of such Incentive Stock Option is at least 110% of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of grant, and (ii) such Incentive Stock Option by its terms is not exercisable after the expiration of five years from the date of grant.  For purposes of the previous sentence, in determining stock ownership, the attribution rules of Section 424(d) of the Code shall be applied.
Persons Eligible for Awards
 
 
 
 
5.2
 
Awards are granted solely at the discretion of the Committee.  Eligible persons may be granted more than one Award.  However, eligibility in accordance with this Section shall not entitle any person to be granted an Award, or, having been granted an Award, to be granted an additional Award.
Participation in Plan.
 
 
6. Stock Options.
   
 
Options shall be evidenced by Award Agreements specifying the number of shares of Stock covered thereby, in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish.  The provisions of the various Award Agreements entered into under the Plan need not be identical.  The Award Agreement shall also specify whether the Option is an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonstatutory Stock Option.  If an Option is not designated as an Incentive Stock Option, then the Option shall be a Nonstatutory Stock Option.  No Option shall provide for payment of Dividend Equivalents.  Award Agreements evidencing Options may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
 
6.1
 
Except as otherwise provided in Section 5.1 of the Plan, the exercise price for each Option shall be established in the discretion of the Committee; , that the exercise price per share for an Option shall be not less than one hundred percent (100%) of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the effective date of grant of the Option.  Repricing of Options after the date of grant shall not be permitted.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Option may be granted with an exercise price lower than the minimum exercise price set forth above if such Option is granted pursuant to an assumption or substitution for another option in a manner that would qualify under the provisions of Section 424(a) of the Code.
Exercise Price.
 
provided, however
 
6.2
 
Options shall be exercisable at such time or times, or upon such event or events, and subject to such terms, conditions, Performance Criteria and restrictions as shall be determined by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Option; , that no Option shall be exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years after the effective date of grant of such Option.  Subject to the foregoing, unless otherwise specified by the Committee in an Award Agreement, any Option granted hereunder shall terminate ten (10) years after the effective date of grant of the Option, unless earlier terminated in accordance with its provisions.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no Option granted to an Employee who is a non-exempt employee for purposes of the Fair Labor Standards Act shall be first exercisable for any shares of Stock until at least six months following the date of grant of the Option.
Exercisability and Term of Options.
 
provided, however
 
6.3
 
To the extent that the aggregate Fair Market Value of shares of Stock (at the time of grant) with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by an Employee in any one calendar year exceeds One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000), the Options or portion of such Options that exceed such limitation (applied in the order in which the Options are granted) shall be treated as Nonstatutory Stock Options notwithstanding any contrary provision in the Award Agreement(s).
$100,000 Limitation.
 
 
6.4
 
Except as otherwise provided below, the full exercise price for the shares of Stock being exercised must be paid in cash or by check or cash equivalents on the date of exercise.  The Committee may approve and set forth in an Award Agreement additional forms of payment, which may include any one, or a combination of, the following:
Payment of Exercise Price.
 
 
(a)
 
All or part of the exercise price of an Option may be paid by tendering, either by actual delivery or by attestation, shares of Stock already owned by the Participant.  The Committee shall determine in its sole discretion from time to time the acceptable methods of tendering or attesting to shares of Stock to pay all or part of the exercise price of an Option.  For purposes of determining the amount of the exercise price satisfied through tender or attestation of shares, the shares shall be valued on the date the shares are tendered or attested to in the method approved by the Committee.
Tender or Attestation of Shares
.
 
 
(b)
 
  To the extent the Company has established and maintains a cashless exercise program with a securities brokerage firm, a Participant may exercise an Option through a cashless exercise in accordance with the policies and procedures established from time to time in the sole discretion of the Committee.  The Company reserves, at any and all times, the right, in the Companys sole and absolute discretion, to establish, decline to approve or terminate any program or procedures for the exercise of Options by means of a cashless exercise, including with respect to one or more Participants specified by the Company notwithstanding that such program or procedures may be available to other Participants.
Broker Assisted Cashless Exercise.
 
(c)
 
By delivering to the Company a properly executed notice, in the form approved by the Committee from time to time in its sole discretion, electing a Net Exercise.
Net Exercise
.
 
 
 
 
 
(d)
 
The exercise price may be paid using such other methods of payment as the Committee, in its sole discretion, deems appropriate from time to time.
Other Methods.
 
 
6.5
 
Effect of Termination of Service.
 
(a)
 
Subject to earlier termination of the Option as otherwise provided herein and unless otherwise provided by the Committee in an Award Agreement, an Option shall terminate immediately upon the Participants termination of Service to the extent that it is then unvested and shall be exercisable after the Participants termination of Service to the extent it is then vested only during the applicable time period determined in accordance with this Section and thereafter shall terminate:
Option Exercisability
.
 
 
(i)
 
.  If the Participants Service terminates because of the Disability of the Participant, the Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable for vested shares on the date on which the Participants Service terminated, may be exercised by the Participant (or the Participants guardian or legal representative) at any time prior to the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date on which the Participants Service terminated, but in any event no later than the date of expiration of the Options term as set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Option.
Disability
 
(ii)
 
  If the Participants Service terminates because of the death of the Participant, then the Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable for vested shares on the date on which the Participants Service terminated, may be exercised by the Participants legal representative or other person who acquired the right to exercise the Option by reason of the Participants death at any time prior to the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date on which the Participants Service terminated, but in any event no later than the date of expiration of the Options term as set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Option.
Death.
 
(iii)
 
.  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, if the Participants Service is terminated for Cause or if, following the Participants termination of Service and during any period in which the Option otherwise would remain exercisable, the Participant engages in any act that would constitute Cause, the Option shall terminate in its entirety and cease to be exercisable immediately upon such termination of Service or such act.
Termination for Cause
 
(iv)
 
.  If the Participants Service terminates for any reason, except Disability, death or Cause, the Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable for vested shares on the date on which the Participants Service terminated, may be exercised by the Participant at any time prior to the expiration of three (3) months after the date on which the Participants Service terminated, but in any event no later than the date of expiration of the Options term as set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Option.
Other Termination of Service
 
(b)
 
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the exercise of an Option within the applicable time periods set forth in Section 6.5(a) is prevented by the provisions of Section 14 below, the Option shall remain exercisable until thirty (30) days after the date such exercise first would no longer be prevented by such provisions, but in any event no later than the date of expiration of the Options term as set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Option.
Extension if Exercise Prevented by Law
.
 
6.6
 
.  Except as otherwise provided in Section 6.7 below, during the lifetime of the Participant, an Option shall be exercisable only by the Participant or the Participants guardian or legal representative.  An Option shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participants beneficiaries, except transfer by will or by the laws of descent and distribution or by beneficiary form filed with the Company pursuant to Section 19.5 of the Plan.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent permitted by the Committee, in its discretion, and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Option, an Option shall be assignable or transferable by gift or domestic relations order to a Participants "family members" as permitted in the General Instructions to Form S-8 under the Securities Act.
Transferability of Options
 
6.7
 
Non-Employee Director Options.
 
(a)
 
In the event the Committee (or if required by applicable law, the Board) determines to provide for Non-Employee Director Stock Options, such Options shall be granted automatically to each Non-Employee Director on the business day following each years annual shareholders meeting date (the ""); , in any event a grant to a Non-Employee Director who was an Employee at any time during the same calendar year as the Grant Date shall be made solely at the discretion of the Committee.  Any Non-Employee Director first elected as a Director after the Grant Date but before the next annual shareholders meeting shall be granted an Option as the Board shall determine in its sole discretion, but in any case covering no more than twice the number of shares granted to Non-Employee Directors on the most recent Grant Date.  The Grant Date for an Option granted to a newly elected Non-Employee Director shall be the date of such Directors election to the Board, and the exercise price of such Option shall be the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on such Grant Date.
Grant Dates
.  
Grant Date
provided, however
 
 
 
 
(b)
 
  The exercise price per share of Stock covered by each Non-Employee Director Option shall be the Fair Market Value on the Grant Date for a share of Stock.  Repricing of Non-Employee Director Options after the Grant Date shall not be permitted.
Exercise Price.
 
(c)
 
  Unless otherwise determined by the Committee, Non-Employee Director Options shall vest and become exercisable immediately, subject to the provisions of the Plan.  Except as otherwise provided in Section 6.7(d), Non-Employee Director Options will expire ten (10) years after the Grant Date.
Term.
 
(d)
 
  In the event that a Non-Employee Directors Service on the Board ceases due to death, disability or Retirement, all outstanding options then held by the Director shall remain exercisable for a period of ten (10) years after the date such option is granted.  Retirement shall mean resignation from the Board after completing seven (7) years of Service and attaining age 59 1/2.  Except as otherwise provided by the Boardin the event that a Non-Employee Directors Service on the Board ceases due to resignation, or other voluntary removal, vested and exercisable shares shall remain exercisable for a period of one (1) year following the cessation of Service.  In any event, if a Non-Employee Director is involuntarily removed for breach of duty or other Cause, all vested and exercisable Non-Employee Director Options are immediately forfeit.  For purposes of this Section 6.7, the Committee will determine in its sole discretion whether a Non-Employee Director has terminated Service due to disability.
Termination.
,
 
(e)
 
  Options granted under this Section 6.7 of the Plan shall be solely Nonstatutory Stock Options.
Nonstatutory Stock Options.
 
(f)
 
Subject to Board approval, the Board may provide that all or a portion of a Non-Employee Director Option may be granted upon terms that permit transfer of the Option in a form and manner determined by the Board.  Any person to whom a Non-Employee Director Option is transferred pursuant to this Section 6.7(f) shall agree in writing to be bound by the terms of the Plan and the Award Agreement for such Non-Employee Director Option as if such transferee had been the original grantee thereto and to execute and/or deliver to the Board any documents as may be requested by the Board from time to time.
Transferability.
 
 
(g)
 
Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this Section 6, exercise of a Non-Employee Director Option shall be made solely by written notice delivered to the Secretary of the Company.  Any written notice required with respect to a Non-Employee Director Option shall be addressed to the Secretary of the Company and shall become effective when it is received by the Company.
Exercise/Notices.
 
 
7. Stock Appreciation Rights.
   
 
Subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan, Stock Appreciation Rights shall be evidenced by Award Agreements specifying the terms and conditions for such Award in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish.  The provisions of the various Award Agreements entered into under the Plan need not be identical.  The Award Agreement for a Stock Appreciation Right will set forth the exercise price, term of the Stock Appreciation Right, the conditions of exercise, vesting and such other terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine in its sole discretion.  A Stock Appreciation Right may be granted alone, in addition to other Awards or in tandem with an Option.  No Stock Appreciation Award shall provide for the payment of Dividend Equivalents.  Award Agreements evidencing Stock Appreciation Rights may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
 
7.1
 
Committee or shall be determined by a method established by the Committee at the time the Stock Appreciation Right is granted; except that the exercise price shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of grant.  Repricing of Stock Appreciation Rights after the date of grant shall not be permitted.
Exercise Price
.   The exercise price of each Stock Appreciation Right shall be established by the
 
7.2
 
  No Stock Appreciation Right shall be exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years from the date of its grant or such shorter period specified in the Award Agreement.
Term.
 
7.3
 
.  Stock Appreciation Rights shall be exercised by providing written or electronic notice to the Company based on such terms and conditions as shall be set forth in the Award Agreement in the sole discretion of the Committee.
Exercise of Stock Appreciation Right
 
7.4
 
  Upon exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right, a Participant will be entitled to receive payment from the Company in an amount determined by multiplying together (a) and (b) below:
Payment Under Stock Appreciation Right.
 
(a)
 
The difference between the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of exercise and the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of grant of the Stock Appreciation Right.
 
(b)
 
The number of shares of Stock with respect to which the Stock Appreciation Right is being exercised.
 
At the discretion of the Committee, settlement upon exercise of all or part of a Stock Appreciation Right may be paid in cash, in shares of Stock, or in any combination of both.
 
 
 
 
7.5
 
.  A Stock Appreciation Right granted in tandem with an Option may be granted at the same time as the Option and shall cover the same or a different number of shares of Stock as the tandem Option but shall have the same exercise price and be exercisable at the same time and to the same extent as the tandem Option.  Upon exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right granted in tandem with an Option, the related Option shall be cancelled automatically to the extent of the  number of the shares of Stock exercised in the tandem Stock Appreciation Right, and if an Option granted in tandem with a Stock Appreciation Right is exercised, the tandem Stock Appreciation Right shall be cancelled automatically to the extent of the number of shares of Stock exercised in the tandem Option.
Tandem with Options
 
7.6
 
  In the event of a Participants termination of Service, the Participant may exercise his or her Stock Appreciation Right to the extent set forth in the Award Agreement, but in no event after the date the term of such Stock Appreciation Right expires.  If, after termination of Service, a Participant does not exercise his or her Stock Appreciation Right within the time period specified in the Award Agreement or by the applicable expiration date, the Stock Appreciation Right shall terminate.
Termination of Service.
 
8. Restricted Stock Awards.
   
 
Restricted Stock Awards shall be evidenced by Award Agreements specifying the number of shares of Stock subject to the Award, in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish.  Restricted Stock Awards may be granted upon such conditions as the Committee shall determine, including, without limitation, upon the attainment of one or more performance goals.  Award Agreements evidencing Restricted Stock Awards may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
 
8.1
 
.  Shares of Stock issued pursuant to any Restricted Stock Award shall be made subject to Vesting Conditions based upon the satisfaction of such Service requirements, conditions, restrictions or performance goals as shall be established by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Award.  Subject to the provisions of Section 14 of the Plan, Vesting Conditions that are performance based shall not lapse for a minimum period of one (1) year, and Vesting Conditions that are non-performance-based shall not lapse in full for a minimum period of three (3) years.  Non-performance-based Vesting Conditions may lapse ratably over such three (3) year period as determined in the discretion of the Committee and set forth in an Award Agreement.  During any period in which shares acquired pursuant to a Restricted Stock Award remain subject to Vesting Conditions, such shares may not be sold, exchanged, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise disposed of other than as permitted under Sections 4.5 or 14 of the Plan or in the applicable Award Agreement.  The Committee, in its discretion, may provide in an Award Agreement that upon the occurrence of one or more events or conditions that all or part of the Vesting Conditions shall be satisfied early and that the transfer restrictions shall lapse with respect to all or part of the shares of Stock subject to the Award.  The Committee, in its discretion, may provide in any Award Agreement evidencing a Restricted Stock Award that, if the satisfaction of Vesting Conditions with respect to any shares subject to such Restricted Stock Award would otherwise occur on a day on which the sale of such shares would violate the provisions of the Insider Trading Policy, then satisfaction of the Vesting Conditions automatically shall be determined on the next trading day on which the sale of such shares would not violate the Insider Trading Policy.  Upon request by the Company, each Participant shall execute any agreement evidencing the transfer restrictions under this Section 8 prior to the receipt of shares of Stock hereunder and shall promptly present to the Company any and all certificates representing shares of Stock acquired hereunder for the placement on such certificates or appropriate legends evidencing any such transfer restrictions.
Vesting and Restrictions on Transfer
 
8.2
 
.  Except as provided in this Section 8.2, Section 8.3 and any Award Agreement, during any period in which shares acquired pursuant to a Restricted Stock Award remain subject to Vesting Conditions, the Participant shall have all of the rights of a shareholder of the Company holding shares of Stock, including the right to vote such shares and to receive all dividends and other distributions paid with respect to such shares.  However, in the event of a dividend or distribution paid in shares of Stock or other property or any other adjustment made upon a change in the capital structure of the Company as described in Section 4.5, any and all new, substituted or additional securities or other property (other than normal cash dividends) to which the Participant is entitled by reason of the Participants Restricted Stock Award shall be immediately subject to the same Vesting Conditions and transfer restrictions as the shares subject to the Restricted Stock Award with respect to which such dividends or distributions were paid or adjustments were made.  To the extent that any portion of a Restricted Stock Award is contingent on the achievement of one or more Vesting Conditions, then any cash dividends payable with respect to shares of Stock subject to the Restricted Stock Award shall be held by the Company and shall not be paid to the Participant unless such shares of Stock become vested under the terms of the Restricted Stock Award.
Voting Rights; Dividends and Distributions
 
8.3
 
.  Unless otherwise provided by the Committee in the Award Agreement evidencing a Restricted Stock Award, if a Participants Service terminates for any reason, whether voluntary or involuntary (including the Participants death or disability), then the Participant shall forfeit to the Company any shares acquired by the Participant pursuant to a Restricted Stock Award which remain subject to Vesting Conditions as of the date of the Participants termination of Service.
Effect of Termination of Service
 
 
 
 
8.4
 
.  Rights to acquire shares of Stock pursuant to a Restricted Stock Award shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participants beneficiaries, except transfer by will or the laws of descent and distribution or by a valid beneficiary designation filed with the Company pursuant to Section 19.5 of the Plan.  All rights with respect to a Restricted Stock Award granted to a Participant hereunder shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant or the Participants guardian or legal representative.
Nontransferability of Restricted Stock Award Rights
 
9. Restricted Stock Unit Awards.
   
 
Restricted Stock Unit Awards shall be evidenced by Award Agreements specifying the number of Restricted Stock Units subject to the Award, in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish.  The Company may settle payment under a Restricted Stock Unit in cash, shares of Stock or a combination of both.  Award Agreements evidencing Restricted Stock Units may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions:
 
9.1
 
.  Restricted Stock Unit Awards may be granted upon such conditions as the Committee shall determine, including, without limitation, upon the attainment of one or more performance goals.
Grant of Restricted Stock Unit Awards
 
9.2
 
  No monetary payment (other than applicable tax withholding, if any) shall be required as a condition of settling a Restricted Stock Unit Award, the consideration for which shall be services actually rendered to a Member Company or for its benefit.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if required by applicable state corporate law, the Participant shall furnish consideration in the form of cash or past services rendered to a Member Company or for its benefit having a value not less than the par value of the shares of Stock issued upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Unit Award.
Purchase Price.
 
9.3
 
  Restricted Stock Unit Awards may be made subject to Vesting Conditions based upon the satisfaction of such Service requirements, conditions, restrictions or performance goal as shall be established by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Award.  Subject to the provisions of Section 14 of the Plan, Vesting Conditions that are performance based shall not lapse for a minimum period of one (1) year, and Vesting Conditions that are non-performance-based shall not lapse in full for a minimum period of three (3) years.  Non-performance-based Vesting Conditions may lapse ratably over such three (3) year period as determined in the discretion of the Committee and set forth in an Award Agreement.  The Committee, in its discretion, may provide in an Award Agreement that upon the occurrence of one or more events or conditions that all or part of the Vesting Conditions shall be satisfied early.  The Committee, in its discretion, may provide in any Award Agreement evidencing a Restricted Stock Unit Award that if the satisfaction of Vesting Conditions with respect to any shares subject to the Award would otherwise occur on a day on which the sale of such shares would violate the provisions of the Insider Trading Policy, then satisfaction of the Vesting Conditions automatically shall be determined on the next trading day on which the sale of such shares would not violate the Insider Trading Policy.
Vesting.
 
9.4
 
  Participants shall have no voting rights with respect to shares of Stock represented by Restricted Stock Units until the date of the issuance of such shares (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company).  However, the Committee, in its discretion, may provide in the Award Agreement evidencing any Restricted Stock Unit Award that the Participant shall be entitled to Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to the payment of cash dividends on Stock during the period beginning on the date such Award is granted and ending, with respect to each share subject to the Award, on the earlier of the date the Award is settled or the date on which it is terminated.  Such Dividend Equivalent Rights, if any, shall be paid by crediting the Participant with additional whole Restricted Stock Units as of the date of payment of such cash dividends on Stock.  The number of additional Restricted Stock Units (rounded down to the nearest whole number) to be so credited shall be determined by dividing (a) the amount of cash dividends paid on such date with respect to the number of shares of Stock represented by the Restricted Stock Units previously credited to the Participant by (b) the Fair Market Value per share of the Stock on such date.  Such additional Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to the same terms and conditions and shall be settled in the same manner and at the same time as the Restricted Stock Units originally subject to the Restricted Stock Unit Award.  In the event of a dividend or distribution paid in shares of Stock or other property or any other adjustment made upon a change in the capital structure of the Company as described in Section 4.5, appropriate adjustments shall be made in the Participants Restricted Stock Unit Award so that it represents the right to receive upon settlement any and all new, substituted or additional securities or other property to which the Participant would be entitled by reason of the shares of Stock issuable upon settlement of the Award, and all such new, substituted or additional securities or other property shall be immediately subject to the same Vesting Conditions as are applicable to the Award.
Voting Rights, Dividend Equivalent Rights and Distributions.
 
9.5
 
.  Unless otherwise provided by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing a Restricted Stock Unit Award, if a Participants Service terminates for any reason, whether voluntary or involuntary (including the Participants death or disability), then the Participant shall forfeit to the Company any Restricted Stock Units pursuant to the Award which remain subject to Vesting Conditions as of the date of the Participants termination of Service.
Effect of Termination of Service
 
 
 
 
9.6
 
  Unless otherwise set forth by the Committee in an Award Agreement, on the date on which Vesting Conditions lapse or are otherwise satisfied with respect to Restricted Stock Units, the Company shall issue to a Participant one (1) share of Stock (and/or any other new, substituted or additional securities or other property pursuant to an adjustment described in Section 4.5) or the cash equivalent of the Fair Market Value of such share of Stock for each Restricted Stock Unit then becoming vested or otherwise to be settled on such date, subject to the withholding of applicable taxes, if any.
Settlement of Restricted Stock Unit Awards.
 
9.7
 
.  The right to receive shares or payment pursuant to a Restricted Stock Unit Award shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participants beneficiaries, except transfer by will or by the laws of descent and distribution or by filing a valid beneficiary designation with the Company pursuant to Section 19.5 of the Plan.  All rights with respect to a Restricted Stock Unit Award granted to a Participant hereunder shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant or the Participants guardian or legal representative.
Nontransferability of Restricted Stock Unit Awards
 
10. Performance Bonuses.
   
 
10.1
 
.  The Committee may, in its sole and absolute discretion, designate one or more Covered Employees as eligible to receive a Performance Bonus for a specific Performance Period.
Designation
 
10.2
 
  For each designated Covered Employee, within ninety (90) days after the beginning of a Performance Period the Committee shall specify in writing the terms and conditions for the payment of such Performance Bonus to each such Covered Employee for the applicable Performance Period.  Such terms and conditions shall (a) set forth objective performance goals related to one or more Performance Criteria, (b) condition the payment of the Performance Bonus on attaining the performance goals as required under Section 162(m), (c) describe the method for computing the amount of the Performance Bonus if the performance goals are met, and (d) set forth the applicable Performance Period.  The performance goals may be stated in absolute terms, relative to comparison companies or indices, as increases over past time periods, as ratios (such as earnings per share), or as returns over a period of time, and the outcome of the performance goals must be substantially uncertain at the time established by the Committee.  No Performance Bonus will be paid unless the Covered Employee is employed with the Company on the date the Performance Bonus is paid; , the Committee may set forth in the written terms and conditions for the payment of the Performance Bonus that the Performance Bonus will be paid upon the Covered Employees death or Disability or upon a Change in Control.
Terms.
provided, however
 
10.3
 
  As soon as reasonably practicable after the end of each Performance Period, the Committee shall determine whether the stated performance goal(s) for a Covered Employee have been attained and the amount of the Performance Bonus to be paid to each Covered Employee for such Performance Period and shall certify such determinations in writing.  The Committee, in determining the amount of Performance Bonus actually paid to a Covered Employee, shall not have the discretion to increase the amount of the Performance Bonus that otherwise would be payable upon the attainment of the performance goals but may decrease the amount of such Performance Bonus in its sole discretion.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, this paragraph shall in no way be construed to preclude the Committee from awarding separate discretionary cash bonuses based on achievements by a Covered Employee that are not related to the attainment of the performance goals upon which payment of the Performance Bonus is conditioned.
Committee Certification.
 
10.4
 
.  Subject to any election duly and validly made by a Covered Employee with respect to the deferral of all or a portion of his or her Performance Bonus that complies with Section 409A, Performance Bonuses shall be paid in cash no later than the 15 day of the third month of the fiscal year of the Company immediately following the end of the Performance Period; provided the Committee shall have sole discretion to determine when during such period the payment shall be made.
Payment of Performance Bonuses
th
 
10.5
 
  All Performance Bonuses paid under the Plan are intended to be "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) and the terms of this Plan and any designation or terms and conditions of any payment set forth by the Committee shall be interpreted as necessary to comply with Section 162(m).
Compliance with Section 162(m).
 
11.
   
Performance Units may be granted as the right to a fixed or variable number of shares of Stock, a cash payment for the value of such shares of Stock, or dollar denominated units subject to such Vesting Conditions and time of payment as the Committee may determine and as shall be set forth in an Award Agreement; , that the Vesting Conditions shall not lapse for a minimum period of one (1) year.  Performance Units may be paid upon attainment of the applicable performance goals in the Award Agreement in shares of Stock, cash or a combination thereof, as determined in the discretion of the Committee.
Performance Units.  
provided; however
 
12.
   
The Committee shall have authority to specify the terms and provisions of other forms of equity-based, equity-related or cash Awards not described above which the Committee determines to be consistent with the purposes of the Plan and the interests of the Company and which may be granted in tandem with, or independent of, other Awards under the Plan.
  
Other Awards.
 
 
 
 
13. Standard Forms of Award Agreements.
   
 
13.1
 
.  Each Award shall comply with and be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the appropriate form of Award Agreement approved by the Committee and as amended from time to time.  Any Award Agreement may consist of an appropriate form of notice of grant and a form of agreement incorporated therein by reference, or such other form or forms, including electronic media, as the Committee may approve from time to time.
Award Agreements
 
13.2
 
.  The Committee shall have the authority from time to time to vary the terms of any standard form of Award Agreement either in connection with the grant or amendment of an individual Award or in connection with the authorization of a new standard form or forms; , that the terms and conditions of any such new, revised or amended standard form or forms of Award Agreement are not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, the Code, or applicable law.
Authority to Vary Terms
provided, however
 
14. Change in Control.
   
 
14.1
 
.  Except as otherwise specified in an applicable Award Agreement, separate employment agreement or retention agreement, in the event of a Change in Control, each outstanding Stock Award shall be assumed or an equivalent option or award substituted by the successor corporation or a parent or subsidiary of the successor corporation.  In the event that the successor corporation refuses to assume or substitute for the Stock Awards, the Committee may, in its discretion, provide for (a) the Participant to fully vest in and have the right to exercise the Option or Stock Appreciation Right as to all of the shares of Stock, including shares as to which it would not otherwise be vested or exercisable, (b) all restrictions and conditions of any Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Stock Units held by such Participant to lapse, and (c) all Performance Units and any Other Awards held by such Participant to be deemed fully earned at the level determined in the sole discretion of the Committee.  If in lieu of assumption or substitution in the event of a Change in Control, a Stock Option or Stock Appreciation Right becomes fully vested and exercisable, the restrictions and conditions on Restricted Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Units lapse, and Performance Units and Other Awards are deemed fully earned at the level determined in the sole discretion of the Committee, then the Committee shall notify the Participant in writing or electronically of the change in the Stock Award and that the Stock Award shall terminate fifteen (15) days from the date of such notice (to the extent applicable). For the purposes of this Section 14.1, the Stock Award shall be considered assumed if, following the merger or sale of assets, the award confers the right to purchase or receive on the same terms and conditions as the Stock Award, for each share of Stock subject to the Stock Award immediately prior to the Change in Control, the consideration (whether stock, cash, or other securities or property) received in the Change in Control by holders of Stock for each share held on the effective date of the transaction (and if holders were offered a choice of consideration, the type of consideration chosen by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares); , that if such consideration received in the Change in Control is not solely common stock of the successor corporation or its parent, the Committee may, with the consent of the successor corporation, provide for the consideration to be received upon the exercise or settlement of the Stock Award, for each share of Stock subject to the Stock Award, to be solely common stock of the successor corporation or its parent equal in Fair Market Value to the per share consideration received by holders of Stock in the Change in Control.
Assumption or Substitution
provided, however
 
14.2
 
  In the event of a Change in Control, the Committee may accelerate the vesting or exercisability of a Stock Award in its sole discretion.  Unless otherwise set forth in an Award Agreement, separate employment agreement or retention agreement, in the event of the involuntary termination of an Employees Service with a Member Company not for Cause within twenty-four months after a Change in Control of the Company, the following shall occur: (i) all of such Employee's outstanding Options and Stock Appreciation Rights shall become vested and exercisable, (ii) all restrictions and conditions of all Restricted Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Units held by such Employee shall lapse and (iii) all Performance Units and any Other Awards held by such Employee shall be deemed to be fully earned at the Participants target level.
Accelerated Vesting.
 
14.3
 
.  The Committee may, in its discretion and without the consent of any Participant, determine that, upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each or any Stock Award or a portion thereof outstanding immediately prior to the Change in Control and not previously exercised or settled shall be canceled in exchange for a payment with respect to each vested share (and each unvested share, if so determined by the Committee) of Stock subject to such canceled Stock Award in (i) cash, (ii) stock of a corporation or other business entity that is a party to the Change in Control, or (iii) other property which, in any such case, shall be in an amount having a Fair Market Value equal to the Fair Market Value of the consideration to be paid per share of Stock in the Change in Control, reduced by the exercise or purchase price per share, if any, under such Stock Award.  If any portion of such consideration may be received by holders of Stock pursuant to the Change in Control on a contingent or delayed basis, the Committee may, in its sole discretion, determine such Fair Market Value per share as of the time of the Change in Control on the basis of the Committees good faith estimate of the present value of the probable future payment of such consideration.  In the event such determination is made by the Committee, the amount of such payment (reduced by applicable withholding taxes, if any) shall be paid to Participants in respect of the vested portions of their canceled Stock Awards as soon as practicable following the date of the Change in Control and in respect of the unvested portions of their canceled Stock Awards in accordance with the vesting schedules applicable to such Stock Awards.
Cash-Out of Stock Awards
 
 
 
 
14.4
 
.  Unless otherwise set forth by the express terms of an employment or retention agreement between a Participant and a Member Company, in the event that any acceleration of vesting pursuant to an Award and any other payment or benefit received or to be received by a Participant would subject the Participant to any excise tax pursuant to Section 4999 of the Code due to the characterization of such acceleration of vesting, payment or benefit as an "excess parachute payment" under Section 280G of the Code, then the amount of any acceleration of vesting called for under the Award shall be reduced in order to avoid such characterization and payment of any excise tax imposed under Section 4999 of the Code.
Federal Excise Tax Under Section 4999 of the Code
 
15. Tax Withholding.
   
 
15.1
 
  The Company shall have the right to deduct from any and all payments made under the Plan, or to require the Participant, through payroll withholding, cash payment or otherwise, to make adequate provision for, the federal, state, local and foreign taxes, if any, required by law to be withheld by the Member Companies with respect to an Award or the shares acquired pursuant thereto.  The Company shall have no obligation to deliver shares of Stock, to release shares of Stock from an escrow established pursuant to a Stock Award Agreement, or to make any payment in cash under the Plan until the Member Companies tax withholding obligations have been satisfied by the Participant.
Tax Withholding in General.
 
15.2
 
.  The Company shall have the right, but not the obligation, to deduct from the shares of Stock issuable to a Participant upon the exercise or settlement of an Stock Award, or to accept from the Participant the tender of, a number of whole shares of Stock having a Fair Market Value, as determined by the Company, equal to all or any part of the tax withholding obligations of the Member Companies.  The Fair Market Value of any shares of Stock withheld or tendered to satisfy any such tax withholding obligations shall not exceed the amount determined by the applicable minimum statutory withholding rates.
Withholding in Shares
 
16. Compliance with Securities Law.
   
 
The grant of Stock Awards and the issuance of shares of Stock pursuant to any Stock Award shall be subject to compliance with all applicable requirements of federal, state and foreign law with respect to such securities and the requirements of any stock exchange or market system upon which the Stock may then be listed.  In addition, no Stock Award may be exercised or shares issued pursuant to an Stock Award unless (a) a registration statement under the Securities Act shall at the time of such exercise or issuance be in effect with respect to the shares issuable pursuant to the Stock Award or (b) in the opinion of legal counsel to the Company, the shares issuable pursuant to the Stock Award may be issued in accordance with the terms of an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act.  The inability of the Company to obtain from any regulatory body having jurisdiction the authority, if any, deemed by the Companys legal counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any shares hereunder shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained.  As a condition to issuance of any Stock, the Company may require the Participant to satisfy any qualifications that may be necessary or appropriate, to evidence compliance with any applicable law or regulation and to make any representation or warranty with respect thereto as may be requested by the Company.
 
17. Compliance with Section 409A.
   
 
All Options and Stock Appreciation Rights granted under the Plan are intended to be exempt from Section 409A as stock rights granted with an exercise price not less than the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of grant of the Option or Stock Appreciation Right and the Plan and any Award Agreement or other document evidencing a grant of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right shall be interpreted as necessary to comply with Section 409A.
Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan or any Award Agreement to the contrary, any Award or portion of an Award that is or becomes subject to Section 409A shall comply with the following:
 
17.1
 
.  Awards subject to Section 409A may include, but are not limited to:
Awards Subject to Section 409A
 
(a)
 
Any Nonstatutory Stock Option that permits the deferral of compensation other than the deferral of recognition of income until the exercise or transfer of the Option or the time the shares acquired pursuant to the exercise of the option first become substantially vested.
 
(b)
 
Any Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Unit, Performance Award or Other Award that provides by its terms that payment will be made or the Award settled upon or after the occurrence of any event that will or may occur later than the end of the Short-Term Deferral Period.
 
 
 
 
 
Subject to U.S. Treasury Regulations promulgated pursuant to Section 409A ("") or other applicable guidance, the term "" means the period ending on the later of (i) the 15th day of the third month following the end of the Companys fiscal year in which the applicable portion of the Award is no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture or (ii) the 15th day of the third month following the end of the Participants taxable year in which the applicable portion of the Award is no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture.  For this purpose, the term "" shall have the meaning set forth in Section 409A Regulations or other applicable guidance.
Section 409A Regulations
Short-Term Deferral Period
substantial risk of forfeiture
 
17.2
 
.  Except as otherwise permitted or required by Section 409A Regulations or other applicable guidance, no payment or other distribution in settlement of an Award or portion of an Award subject to Section 409A may commence earlier than:
Fixed Payment Dates
 
(a)
 
The Participants separation from service (as defined by Section 409A Regulations, including the definition of service recipient under Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h)(3));
 
(b)
 
The date the Participant becomes disabled (as defined by Section 409A Regulations);
 
(c)
 
The Participants death;
 
(d)
 
A specified time (or pursuant to a fixed schedule) that is specified by the Committee upon the grant of an Award and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Award;
 
(e)
 
A change in the ownership or effective control of the Company or in the ownership of asubstantial portion of the assets of the Company (as defined by Section 409A Regulations); or
 
 
(f)
 
The occurrence of an unforeseeable emergency (as defined by Section 409A Regulations).
 
17.3
 
.  To the extent that a Participant is a "Specified Employee" (as defined by Section 409A Regulations) of the Company, distribution pursuant to Section 17.2(a) in settlement of an Award subject to Section 409A shall be made on the first day of the seventh month after the Participants separation from service (the "") or, if earlier, the date of the Participants death.  All such amounts that would, but for this paragraph, become payable prior to the Delayed Payment Date shall be accumulated and paid on the Delayed Payment Date.  The amount of any payment under an Award that is based on the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock shall be determined at the time the Award vests pursuant to the applicable Award Agreement and not at the time of the Delayed Payment Date.  No interest shall be paid by the Company on any amount accumulated during the period ending on the Delayed Payment Date.
Specified Employees
Delayed Payment Date
 
17.4
 
.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, this Plan does not permit the acceleration of the time or schedule of any distribution under this Plan pursuant to any Award or portion of an Award subject to Section 409A, except as provided by Section 409A and Section 409A Regulations.
No Acceleration of Distributions
 
17.5
 
To the extent any Award granted under the Plan is subject to, or becomes subject to, Section 409A, the terms of the Plan and the Award Agreement shall be interpreted as necessary to comply with Section 409A and this Section 17.
Interpretation.
 
 
18. Amendment or Termination of Plan.
   
 
The Committee may amend, suspend or terminate the Plan at any time; , that any payment or distribution upon settlement of an Award subject to Section 409A upon termination of the Plan shall comply with Section 409A Regulations and all applicable guidance issued thereunder; , no amendment of the Plan by the Committee shall become effective without approval by the Companys shareholders if such approval is required for compliance with Section 162(m), Section 16b-3 or such other applicable federal or state laws, regulations or rules, or the rules of any stock exchange or market system upon which the Stock may then be listed.  No amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan may adversely affect any then outstanding Award without the consent of the Participant; , that notwithstanding any provision of the Plan or any Award Agreement to the contrary, the Committee may, in its sole and absolute discretion and without the consent of any Participant, amend the Plan or any Award Agreement, to take effect retroactively or otherwise, as it deems necessary or advisable for the purpose of conforming the Plan or such Award Agreement to any present or future law, regulation or rule applicable to the Plan, including, but not limited to, Section 409A of the Code and all applicable guidance promulgated thereunder.
provided, however
provided, further
provided, however
 
 
 
 
 
19. Miscellaneous Provisions.
   
 
19.1
 
Forfeiture Events.
 
(a)
 
The Committee may specify in an Award Agreement that the Participants rights, payments, and benefits with respect to an Award shall be subject to reduction, cancellation, forfeiture, or recoupment upon the occurrence of specified events, in addition to any otherwise applicable vesting or performance conditions of an Award.  Such events may include, but shall not be limited to, termination of Service for Cause or any act by a Participant, whether before or after termination of Service, that would constitute Cause for termination of Service.
 
(b)
 
If the Company is required to prepare an accounting restatement due to the material noncompliance of the Company, as a result of misconduct, with any financial reporting requirement under the securities laws, then any Participant who is one of the individuals subject to automatic forfeiture under Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and who knowingly or through gross negligence engaged in the misconduct, or who knowingly or through gross negligence failed to prevent the misconduct, shall reimburse the Company the amount of any payment in settlement of an Award earned or accrued during the twelve (12) month period following the first public issuance or filing with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (whichever first occurred) of the financial document embodying such financial reporting requirement.
 
(c)
 
 To the extent required by the regulations issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, executive officers of the Company will be required to reimburse the Company for an incentive compensation that is received from a payment or other settlement of an Award as required by such regulations.
 
19.2
 
.  Each Participant shall be given access to information concerning the Company equivalent to that information generally made available to the Companys shareholders.
Provision of Information
 
19.3
 
.  No person, even though eligible pursuant to Section 5, shall have a right to be selected as a Participant, or, having been so selected, to be selected again as a Participant.  Nothing in the Plan or any Award granted under the Plan shall confer on any Participant a right to remain an Employee, Consultant or Director or interfere with or limit in any way any right of a Member Company to terminate the Participants Service at any time.  To the extent that an Employee of a Member Company other than the Company receives an Award under the Plan, that Award shall in no event be understood or interpreted to mean that the Company is the Employees employer or that the Employee has an employment relationship with the Company.
Rights as Employee, Consultant or Director
 
19.4
 
A Participant shall have no rights as a shareholder with respect to any shares covered by an Award until the date of the issuance of such shares (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company).  No adjustment shall be made for dividends, distributions or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date such shares are issued, except as provided in Section 4.5 or another provision of the Plan.
Rights as a Shareholder.
 
 
19.5
 
.  A Participants beneficiary shall be the person, persons, or entity designated by the Participant on a properly completed beneficiary designation form submitted to the Company.  Such designation may be changed by the Participant without the consent of any previously designated beneficiary.  A beneficiary designation will not become effective unless it is made on a form approved by the Company and is received by the Company prior to the Participants death.
Beneficiary Designations
 
19.6
 
.  Subject to any governing rules or regulations, the Company shall issue or cause to be issued the shares of Stock acquired pursuant to an Award and shall deliver such shares to or for the benefit of the Participant by means of one or more of the following: (a) by delivering to the Participant evidence of book entry shares of Stock credited to the account of the Participant, (b) by depositing such shares of Stock for the benefit of the Participant with any broker with which the Participant has an account relationship, or (c) by delivering such shares of Stock to the Participant in certificate form.
Delivery of Title to Shares
 
19.7
 
  The Company shall not be required to issue fractional shares upon the exercise or settlement of any Stock Award.  In lieu of issuing such fraction of a share of Stock, the Company will be entitled to pay a Participant the Fair Market Value of such fractional share on the business day immediately following the date the Stock Award is exercised or vests.
Fractional Shares.
 
19.8
 
  Neither Awards made under this Plan nor shares of Stock or cash paid pursuant to such Awards shall be included as "compensation" for purposes of computing the benefits payable to any Participant under any Member Companys retirement plans (both qualified and non-qualified) or welfare benefit plans unless such other plan expressly provides that such compensation shall be taken into account in computing such benefits.
Retirement and Welfare Plans.
 
19.9
 
  If any one or more of the provisions (or any part thereof) of this Plan shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such provision shall be modified so as to make it valid, legal and enforceable, and the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions (or any part thereof) of the Plan shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.
Severability.
 
 
 
 
19.10
 
  Nothing in this Plan shall be construed to: (a) limit, impair, or otherwise affect the Companys or another Member Companys right or power to make adjustments, reclassifications, reorganizations, or changes of its capital or business structure, or to merge or consolidate, or dissolve, liquidate, sell, or transfer all or any part of its business or assets; or (b) limit the right or power of the Company or another Member Company to take any action which such entity deems to be necessary or appropriate.
No
Constraint
on Corporate Action.
 
19.11
 
  Participants shall have the status of general unsecured creditors of the Company.  Any amounts payable to Participants pursuant to the Plan shall be unfunded and unsecured obligations for all purposes.  No Member Company shall be required to segregate any monies from its general funds, or to create any trusts, or establish any special accounts with respect to such obligations.  The Company shall retain at all times beneficial ownership of any investments, including trust investments, which the Company may make to fulfill its payment obligations hereunder.  Any investments or the creation or maintenance of any trust or any Participant account shall not create or constitute a trust or fiduciary relationship between the Committee or any Member Company and a Participant, or otherwise create any vested or beneficial interest in any Participant or the Participants creditors in any assets of any Member Company.  The Participants shall have no claim against any Member Company for any changes in the value of any assets which may be invested or reinvested by the Company with respect to the Plan.
Unfunded
Obligation.
 
19.12
 
  Except to the extent governed by applicable federal law, the validity, interpretation, construction and performance of the Plan and each Award Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, without regard to its conflict of law rules.
Choice of Law.
 
19.13
 
  Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, without prior approval of the Companys shareholders, no amendment or modification may be made to an outstanding Option or Stock Appreciation Award, including, without limitation, by reducing the exercise price or replacing any Option or Stock Appreciation Right with cash or another Award when such amendment or modification would be treated as repricing under the rules of the stock exchange on which the Companys Stock is listed; , that appropriate adjustments to Options and Stock Appreciation Awards may be made as permitted under Section 4.5 of the Plan.
No Repricing.
provided, however
 
20.
   
  The Plan is subject to approval of the Shareholders within twelve (12) months of the Effective Date.
Shareholder Approval.
 

xhibit 10.2
E
This AWARD AGREEMENT (the ), dated as of [DATE] (the ), is delivered by Dollar Tree, Inc., a Virginia corporation, (the ), to [NAME] (the ).
Agreement
Date of Grant
Company
Grantee
 
 
The Dollar Tree, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan (the ) provides for the grant of Restricted Stock Units and Performance Bonuses in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference.  The Company has determined that as part of its Long-Term Incentive Plan it is in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders to provide an Award of Restricted Stock Units and an Award of a Performance Bonus (together referred to herein as the ) to the Grantee.  Capitalized terms used in this Agreement and not otherwise defined herein or in the Notice of Grant have the meanings set forth in the Plan.  The Awards granted pursuant to this Agreement are intended to be performance-based compensation under Code Section 162(m) and the terms of this Agreement shall be construed as necessary to comply with such intent.
Plan
Awards
 
1.
 
The Company hereby grants an Award of Restricted Stock Units to the Grantee as set forth in the Notice of Grant, subject to the terms, conditions and restrictions as set forth in the Plan, this Agreement and the Notice of GrantEach vested Restricted Stock Unit shall represent the right of the Grantee to receive one (1) share of the Companys Stock.  Except as otherwise provided in Sections 3.3 and 4 below, the Restricted Stock Units will be settled by issuance of shares of Stock as soon as practicable after the Certification Date in the Notice of Grant, but in no event later than the last day of the fiscal year that includes the Certification Date
Restricted Stock Units.
 
.  
.
 
2.
 
  The Company hereby grants an Award of a Performance Bonus to the Grantee as set forth in the Notice of Grant, subject to the terms, conditions and restrictions as set forth in the Plan, this Agreement and the Notice of Grant.  Except as otherwise provided in Sections 3.3 and 4 below, the Performance Bonus will be paid as soon as practicable after the Certification Date, but in no event later than the last day of the fiscal year that includes the Certification Date.
Performance Bonus.
 
3.
 
.  The Grantee shall vest in the percentage of the Target Restricted Stock Units and the Performance Bonus, and the restrictions described in Sections 3.1 and 3.2 shall lapse, when the conditions for Vesting set forth in the Notice of Grant are satisfied.
Vesting and Transfer Restrictions of Restricted Stock Units
 
3.1.
 
.  In the event of a Separation from Service of the Grantee with all Member Companies for any reason other than death, Disability or Retirement prior to the satisfaction of the conditions for Vesting set forth in the Notice of Grant, then the unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be forfeited as of the date of such Separation from Service.  For purposes of this Agreement, the capitalized term Separation from Service shall mean a separation from service as defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h) and Member Company shall mean a service recipient as defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h)(3).
Separation from Service
 
 
 
 
3.2.
 
.  Grantees Awards under the Agreement may not be transferred, assigned, pledged or hypothecated, whether by operation of law or otherwise, other than by will or by the laws of descent or distribution, and the provisions of this Agreement, the Plan and the Notice of Grant shall be binding upon the executors, administrators, heirs, and successors of the Grantee.  Any levy of any execution, attachment or similar process upon the Awards, shall be null, void and without effect.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Grantee may designate one or more beneficiaries for receipt of the shares of Stock subject to vested Restricted Stock Units or for payment of any vested Performance Bonus by delivering a beneficiary designation form to the Company.  A beneficiary designation will not become effective unless it is made on the form approved by the Company and is received by the Company prior to the Grantees death.
Transfer Restrictions
 
3.3.
 
.
Change in Control/Corporate Transaction
 
3.3.1.
 
In the event of a Change in Control, Section 14 of the Plan shall apply to the Restricted Stock Units and the Committee may take such actions as it deems appropriate pursuant to the Plan, including accelerating vesting of the Awards by waiving all or part of the conditions for Vesting set forth in the Notice of Grant.  Notwithstanding the previous sentence, any accelerated vesting of the Restricted Stock Units under this Section 3.3.1 that are subject to a Performance Goal set forth in the Notice of Grant shall not accelerate until and unless the Company achieves the minimum lower bound 3-year Cumulative Operating Income (the Minimum Performance Goal), even if that does not occur until after the Change in Control; , in the event that (a) a Change in Control occurs prior to February 1, 2014, (b) as of the date of the Change in Control the Minimum Performance Goal has not been satisfied, and (c), the Company will not be the surviving company after the Change in Control, then prior to the consummation of the Change in Control the Committee may revise the Performance Goals as its deems appropriate, considering substantially similar financial metrics of the surviving or successor company, such that it remains possible for the Grantee to satisfy the Performance Goals.  Except as otherwise specifically provided below or in Section 4 of this Agreement, if the vesting of Restricted Stock Units is accelerated under this Section 3.3.1, such vested Restricted Stock Units shall be settled within 30 days of the date of the corporate action that accelerates vesting hereunder. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this Agreement, in the event accelerated vesting of the Restricted Stock Units is required based on the terms of a retention agreement entered into by and between the Grantee and the Company prior to the Date of Grant, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest as required in such agreement and shall be settled or paid within 30 days of the Grantees Termination of Employment.
Restricted Stock Units
.  
provided, however
 
3.3.2.
 
  In the event of a Corporate Transaction, the Committee may accelerate vesting of the Performance Award and certify in its sole discretion a vesting percentage up to 200% of the Target Performance Bonus.  To the extent the Committee has not acted earlier to accelerate vesting of the Performance Bonus, then in the event that within twenty-four months of the date of the Corporate Transaction the Grantee has an involuntary Termination of Employment without Cause or the Grantee has a voluntary Termination of Employment for Good Reason, then the Performance Bonus shall vest in the amount of the Grantees Target Performance Bonus.  Except as otherwise specifically provided in Section 4 of this Agreement, if the vesting of the Performance Bonus is accelerated under this Section 3.3.2, such vested Performance Bonus shall be settled within 30 days of the date of the completion of corporate action or other condition that triggers accelerated vesting hereunder.
Performance Bonus
.
 
 
 
 
3.3.3.
 
.  For purposes of Section 3.3.2, the following capitalized terms shall be defined as follows:
Additional Definitions
 
(A) a Corporate Transaction shall mean a change in control of the Company of a nature that would be required to be reported on Item 6(e) of Schedule 14A of Regulation 14A promulgated under the Exchange Act, whether or not the Company is then subject to such reporting requirements; , that a Corporate Transaction shall be deemed to have occurred if:
provided, however
 
(i) any individual, partnership, firm, association, trust, unincorporated organization or other entity or person, or any syndicate or group deemed to be a person under Section 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act, is or becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13d-3 of the General Rules and Regulations of the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 30% of more of the combined voting power of the Companys then outstanding securities entitled to vote in the election of directors of the Company;
 
(ii)  during any period of two consecutive years, the individuals who at the beginning of such period constituted the Board and any new directors, whose election by the Board or nomination for election by the Companys stockholders was approved by a vote of at least three-fourths (3/4ths) of the directors then still in office who either were directors at the beginning of the period or whose election or nomination for election was previously so approved, cease for any reason to constitute a majority thereof;
 
(iii)  there occurs a reorganization, merger, consolidation or similar corporate transaction involving the Company (a Business Transaction) with respect to which the stockholders of the Company immediately prior to Business Transaction do not, immediately after the Business Transaction, own more than 70% of the combined voting power of the Company or other corporation resulting from such Business Transaction; or
 
(iv)
 
all or substantially all of the assets of the Company are sold, liquidated or distributed.
 
(B) Good Reason shall mean Grantees resignation due to:
 
(i) a material diminution in Grantees title, duties or responsibilities in effect immediately prior to the Corporate Transaction;
 
(ii) a material diminution in Grantees base salary, or target annual bonus or target long-term bonus in effect immediately prior to the Corporate Transaction;
 
(iii) the relocation of the office of the Company where Grantee is primarily employed to a location which is more than 50 miles from the place where Grantee was primarily employed immediately prior to the Corporate Transaction;
 
(iv) any material breach by the Company or any successor company of Grantees retention agreement; or
 
(v) failure of the Company to obtain an agreement reasonably satisfactory to you from any successor to assume and agree to perform Grantees retention agreement or, if the business for which your services are principally performed is sold at any time after a Corporate Transaction, the failure of the Company or successor company to obtain such an agreement from the purchaser of such business; a condition listed above shall not constitute Good Reason unless it is communicated by Grantee to the Company or its successor company in writing within 90 days following the initial existence of the condition and the Company or its successor company does not cure such condition within 30 days of receipt of such written notice.
provided; however,
 
 
 
 
(C) "Cause" shall mean a termination of your employment by the Company as a result of any of the following:
 
(i) your felony conviction, whether following trial or by plea of guilty or (or similar plea);
nolo contendere
 
(ii) your engaging in any fraudulent or dishonest conduct with respect to the performance of your duties with the Companies;
 
(iii) your engaging in any intentional act that is injurious in a material respect to the Companies;
 
(iv) your engaging in any other act of moral turpitude;
 
(v) your willful disclosure of material trade secrets or other material confidential information related to the business of the Companies;
 
(vi) your willful and continued failure substantially to perform your duties with the Companies (other than any such failure resulting from your incapacity due to physical or mental illness or any such actual or anticipated failure resulting from a resignation by you for Good Reason) after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to you by the Board, which demand specifically identifies the manner in which the Board believes that you have not substantially performed your duties, and which performance is not substantially corrected by you within thirty days of receipt of such demand.  For purposes of this clause, no act or failure to act on your part shall be deemed "willful" unless done, or omitted to be done, by you not in good faith and without reasonable belief that your action or omission was in the best interest of the Company.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, you shall not be deemed to have been terminated for Cause unless and until there shall have been delivered to you a copy of a resolution duly adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than three-fourths (3/4ths) of the entire membership of the Board at a meeting of the Board called and held for such purpose (after reasonable notice to you and an opportunity for you, together with your counsel, to be heard before the Board), finding that in the good faith opinion of the Board you were guilty of conduct set forth above constituting Cause and specifying the particulars thereof.
 
3.4.
 
.  No cash dividends shall be paid on the Restricted Stock Units.
Dividends
 
3.5.
 
.  In the event of a Transaction (as defined in Section 4.5 of the Plan), the Restricted Stock Units shall be adjusted as set forth in Section 4.5 of the Plan and any additional securities or other consideration received pursuant to such adjustment shall be subject to the restrictions and risk of forfeiture to the same extent as the Restricted Stock Units with respect to which such securities or other consideration has been distributed.
Adjustments for Recapitalizations
 
4.
 
In the event of the Grantees death, Disability or Retirement prior to the Certification Date, the Company shall waive the requirement that the Grantee be employed by the Company on the date of payment or settlement of the Award, and on the Certification Date the Grantee shall vest in the percentage of the Target Restricted Stock Units and Target Performance Bonus as certified in writing by the Committee and such Awards shall be paid or settled as soon as practicable after the Certification Date, but not later than the last day of the fiscal year that includes the Certification Date.  For purposes of this Agreement, Disability shall mean the Grantee has been determined to be disabled under the long-term disability insurance policy of the Company or the Company determines that a qualified medical professional has opined that the Grantee is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months; , if the Grantee is eligible for Retirement (without regard to any required approval of the Committee), then Disability shall mean as defined under Code Section 409A(a)(2)(C) and the regulations promulgated thereunder, and the Grantee shall be deemed to have a Disability on the earliest date that the Grantee is determined to have a Disability either by the Company or as otherwise permitted under Treasury Regulation  1.409A-3(i)(4)(iii).  For purposes of this Agreement, Retirement shall mean, with the approval of the Committee, the Grantees Separation from Service on or after the date the Grantee attains the age of fifty-nine and a half (59 ) following at least seven (7) years of Service.  Notwithstanding any provision of the Agreement to the contrary, in the event the Grantee is eligible for Retirement (without regard to any required approval of the Committee) at the time the Committee exercises its discretion to accelerate vesting of all or part of the Awards due to a Change in Control or Corporate Transaction, then the vested Awards shall be settled or payment made to the Grantee either (1) as soon as practicable after the Certification Date, but not later than December 31, 2014 or (2) if earlier, on the date of the Grantees death, Disability or Separation from Service after the applicable Change in Control or Corporate Transaction.
Death, Disability, or Retirement of Grantee
.  
provided, however
 
 
 
 
5.
 
This Award of Restricted Stock Units does not entitle Grantee to any rights as a shareholder of the Company unless and until the shares of Stock underlying the Award have been issued to Grantee by registry in book-entry form with the Company.
Shareholder Rights
.
 
 
6.
 
The Company will issue the shares of Stock subject to the Restricted Stock Units as non-certificated shares in book-entry form registered in Grantees name.  The purchase price of the shares of Stock is Grantees Service to the Company during the vesting periods. The obligation of the Company to deliver shares of Stock upon the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations and such approvals by governmental agencies as may be deemed appropriate to comply with relevant state and federal securities laws and regulations and the rules of any applicable stock exchange.
Issuance of Shares.
 
 
7.
 
  To the extent this Agreement provides for a deferral of compensation subject to Code Section 409A and the regulations promulgated thereunder, this Agreement is intended to and shall be interpreted as necessary to comply with Code Section 409A.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, and solely to the extent required by Code Section 409A, in the event that Grantee is a specified employee under Code Section 409A(a)(2)(i) and the regulations promulgated thereunder on the date of Grantees Separation from Service, then amounts payable under this Award  due to Grantees Separation from Service, for any reason other than death, shall be accumulated and held, and paid or transferred, to the Grantee (without any payment of interest because of the delay in payment or transfer) on the first business day of the seventh month following the date of the Grantees Separation from Service.
Code Section 409A.
 
8.
 
Taxes; Withholding Obligation
.
 
8.1.
 
. Grantee shall be ultimately liable and responsible for all taxes owed in connection with the Awards, regardless of any action a Member Company takes with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with the Awards. The Member Companies make no representation or undertaking regarding the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the grant or vesting of the Awards or the subsequent sale of shares of Stock issuable pursuant to the Awards. Neither the Company nor any Member Company is committed or under any obligation to structure the Awards to reduce or eliminate Grantees tax liability.
Generally
 
8.2.
 
.
Payment of Withholding Taxes
 
 
 
 
8.2.1.
 
Prior to any event in connection with the Awards (e.g., vesting) that the Company determines may result in any domestic or foreign tax withholding obligation, whether national, federal, state or local, including any employment or social tax obligation (the ), Grantee must arrange for the satisfaction of the amount of such Tax Withholding Obligation in a manner acceptable to the Company.
Tax Withholding Obligation
 
8.2.2.
 
Unless Grantee chooses to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by some other means in accordance with Section 8.2.3. below, Grantees acceptance of the Award of the Restricted Stock Units constitutes Grantees instruction and authorization to the Company, and any brokerage firm determined acceptable to the Company for such purpose, to sell on Grantees behalf (including to the Company or any affiliate of the Company through the retention of a portion of the shares of Stock) a whole number of shares of Stock from those shares of Stock issuable to Grantee pursuant to the Award of the Restricted Stock Units as the Company determines to be appropriate to generate cash proceeds sufficient to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation. Such shares of Stock will be sold on the day the Tax Withholding Obligation arises or as soon thereafter as practicable. If applicable, Grantee will be responsible for all brokers fees and other costs of sale, and agrees to indemnify and hold the Company harmless from any losses, costs, damages, or expenses relating to any such sale. To the extent the proceeds of such sale exceed Grantees Tax Withholding Obligation, the Company agrees to pay such excess in cash to Grantee through payroll as soon as practicable. Grantee acknowledges that the Company or its designee is under no obligation to arrange for such sale at any particular price, and that the proceeds of any such sale may not be sufficient to satisfy Grantees Tax Withholding Obligation. Accordingly, Grantee agrees to pay to the Company (or Member Company as applicable) as soon as practicable, including through additional payroll withholding, any amount of the Tax Withholding Obligation that is not satisfied by the sale of shares of Stock described above.
 
8.2.3.
 
At any time not less than five (5) business days before any Tax Withholding Obligation arises Grantee may elect to satisfy his or her Tax Withholding Obligation by delivering to the Company (or Member Company as applicable) an amount that the Company determines is sufficient to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by (i) wire transfer to such account as the Company may direct, (ii) delivery of a certified check payable to the Company (or Member Company as applicable), or (iii) such other means as the Company may establish or permit.
 
8.2.4.
 
The Company may refuse to issue any shares of Stock to Grantee until Grantee satisfies the Tax Withholding Obligation. To the maximum extent permitted by law, the Company has the right to retain, without notice, from shares of Stock issuable under the Awards or from salary or other amounts payable to Grantee, shares of Stock or cash having a value sufficient to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation.
 
9.
 
  Nothing in this Agreement shall affect in any manner whatsoever the right or power of a Member Company to terminate Grantees employment for any reason, with or without Cause.
No Employment
Rights
.
 
10.
 
Miscellaneous
.
 
10.1.
 
  This Agreement and all acts and transactions pursuant hereto and the rights and obligations of the parties hereto shall be governed, construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, without giving effect to choice of law provisions thereof.  The Circuit Court of the City of Norfolk, Virginia, and the United States District Court, Eastern District of Virginia, Norfolk Division shall be the exclusive courts of jurisdiction or venue for any litigation, special proceedings or other proceedings between the parties that my be brought, or arise out of, in connection with, or by reason of this Agreement and the parties to this Agreement hereby consent to the jurisdiction of such courts.
Governing Law
.
 
 
 
 
10.2.
 
  The Plan and the Notice of Grant are hereby incorporated by reference in this Agreement.  This Agreement (including the Plan and the Notice of Grant) sets forth the entire agreement and understanding of the parties relating to the subject matter herein.  No modification of or amendment to this Agreement, nor any waiver of any rights under this Agreement, shall be effective unless in a writing signed by the Company and the Grantee to this Agreement.  The failure by either party to enforce any rights under this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver of any rights of such party.
Entire Agreement; Enforcement of Rights
.
 
10.3.
 
  If one or more provisions of this Agreement are held to beunenforceable under applicable law, the parties agree to renegotiate such provision in good faith.  In the event that the parties cannot reach a mutually agreeable and enforceable replacement for such provision, then (i) such provision shall be excluded from this Agreement, (ii) the balance of the Agreement shall be interpreted as if such provision were so excluded and (iii) the balance of the Agreement shall be enforceable in accordance with its terms.
Severability
.
 
 
10.4.
 
  Any notice required or permitted by this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by telegram or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the party to be notified at such partys address as last stated on the Companys records or as subsequently modified by written notice to the Company.
Notices
.
 
10.5.
 
  The rights and benefits of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be enforceable by the Companys successors and assigns.  The rights and obligations of Grantee under this Agreement may only be assigned with the prior written consent of the Company.
Successors and Assigns
.
 
10.6.
 
  In the event the Committee determines that the Grantee has materially violated the provisions of this Section 10.6, the Grantee shall immediately forfeit all unvested Awards.  The Grantee recognizes and acknowledges that the Companys trade secrets, confidential information, and proprietary information, including customer and vendor lists and computer data and programs (collectively Confidential Information), are valuable, special and unique assets of the Companys business, access to and knowledge of which are essential to the performance of the Grantees duties. The Grantee will not, before or after his date of Separation from Service, in whole or in part, disclose such Confidential Information to any person or entity or make such Confidential Information public for any purpose whatsoever, nor shall the Grantee make use of such Confidential Information for the Grantees own purposes or for the benefit of any person or entity other than the Company under any circumstances before or after the Grantees date of Separation from Service; provided that this prohibition shall not apply after the Grantees date of Separation from Service to Confidential Information that has become publicly known through no action of the Grantee. The Grantee shall consider and treat as the Companys property all memoranda, books, records, papers, letters, computer data or programs, or customer lists, including any copies thereof in human- or machine-readable form, in any way relating to the Companys business or affairs, financial or otherwise, whether created by the Grantee or coming into his or her possession, and shall deliver the same to the Company on the date of Separation from Service or, on demand of the Company, at any earlier time.
Disclosure of Information.
 

Exhibit 10.3
 
This RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT (the ), dated as of [DATE] (the ), is delivered by Dollar Tree, Inc., a Virginia corporation, (the ), to [NAME] (the ).
Agreement
Date of Grant
Company
Grantee
 
 
The Dollar Tree, Inc. Omnibus Incentive Plan (the ) provides for the grant of Restricted Stock Units in accordance with the terms and conditions of the Plan, which are incorporated herein by reference.  The Company has determined that it is in the best interest of the Company and its shareholders to issue an Award of Restricted Stock Units to the Grantee.  Capitalized terms used in this Agreement and not otherwise defined herein or in the Notice of Grant have the meanings set forth in the Plan.
Plan
 
1.
 
The Company hereby grants the Grantee the number of Restricted Stock Units as set forth in the Notice of Grant subject to the terms, conditions and restrictions as set forth in the Plan, this Agreement and the Notice of GrantEach vested Restricted Stock Unit shall represent the right of the Grantee to receive one share of the Companys Stock or the cash equivalent of the Fair Market Value of one share of the Companys Stock determined on the applicable vesting date (or if the applicable vesting date is not a business day, then on the first business day preceding the applicable vesting date).  Except as otherwise provided in Section 3 below, the Restricted Stock Units will be settled by issuance of shares of Stock, or payment will be made, as soon as practicable after the date the Restricted Stock Units vest, but in no event later than the last day of the fiscal year in which the Restricted Stock Units vest.
Restricted Stock Units
.  
.
 
 
2.
 
.  The Restricted Stock Units shall become vested, if at all, and the restrictions described in Sections 2.1 and 2.2 shall lapse, as the Vesting Criteria set forth in the Notice of Grant are satisfied.
Vesting and Transfer Restrictions of Restricted Stock Units
 
2.1.
 
.  In the event of Grantees Termination of Employment with all Member Companies for any reason other than death, Disability or Retirement prior to the satisfaction of the Vesting Criteria, then the unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be forfeited as of the date of such Termination of Employment.  For purposes of this Agreement, Termination of Employment shall mean a separation from service as defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h) and Member Company shall mean a service recipient as defined in Treasury Regulation  1.409A-1(h)(3).
Termination of Employment
 
2.2.
 
.  Your Restricted Stock Units may not be transferred, assigned, pledged or hypothecated, whether by operation of law or otherwise, other than by will or by the laws of descent or distribution, and the provisions of this Agreement, the Plan and the Notice of Grant shall be binding upon the executors, administrators, heirs, and successors of the Grantee.  Any levy of any execution, attachment or similar process upon the Restricted Stock Units, shall be null, void and without effect.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Grantee may designate one or more beneficiaries for receipt of the shares of Stock subject to this Award upon Grantees death by delivering a beneficiary designation form to the Company.  A beneficiary designation will not become effective unless it is made on the form approved by the Company and is received by the Company prior to the Grantees death.
Transfer Restrictions
 
 
 
 
2.3.
 
.  In the event of a Change in Control, Section 14 of the Plan shall apply to the Restricted Stock Units and the Committee may take such actions as it deems appropriate pursuant to the Plan, including accelerating vesting of the Awards by waiving all or part of the conditions for Vesting set forth in the Notice of Grant.  Notwithstanding the previous sentence, any accelerated vesting of the Restricted Stock Units under this Section 2.3 that are subject to a Performance Goal set forth in the Notice of Grant shall not accelerate until and unless the Company achieves the minimum lower bound 3-year Cumulative Operating Profit (the Minimum Performance Goal), even if that does not occur until after the Change in Control; , in the event that (a) a Change in Control occurs prior to February 1, 2014, (b) as of the date of the Change in Control the Minimum Performance Goal has not been satisfied, and (c), the Company will not be the surviving company after the Change in Control, then prior to the consummation of the Change in Control the Committee may revise the Performance Goals as its deems appropriate, considering substantially similar financial metrics of the surviving or successor company, such that it remains possible for the Grantee to satisfy the Performance Goals.  Except as otherwise specifically provided below or in Section 4 of this Agreement, if the vesting of Restricted Stock Units is accelerated under this Section 2.3, such vested Restricted Stock Units shall be settled within 30 days of the date of the corporate action that accelerates vesting hereunder. Notwithstanding any provision to the contrary in this Agreement, in the event accelerated vesting of the Restricted Stock Units is required based on the terms of a retention agreement entered into by and between the Grantee and the Company prior to the Date of Grant, the Restricted Stock Units shall vest as required in such agreement and such vested Restricted Stock Units shall be settled or paid within 30 days of the Grantees Termination of Employment.
Change in Control
provided, however
 
2.4.
 
.  No cash dividends shall be paid on the Restricted Stock Units.
Dividends
 
2.5.
 
.  In the event of a Transaction (as defined in Section 4.5 of the Plan), the Restricted Stock Units shall be adjusted as set forth in Section 4.5 of the Plan and any additional securities or other consideration received pursuant to such adjustment shall be subject to the restrictions and risk of forfeiture to the same extent as the Restricted Stock Units with respect to which such securities or other consideration has been distributed.
Adjustments for Recapitalizations
 
3.
 
Death, Permanent Disability, or Retirement of Grantee
.
 
3.1.
 
In the event of Grantees Disability prior to an applicable vesting date for the Restricted Stock Units, the Service Requirements in the Notice of Grant shall be deemed satisfied; , that any vesting based on the Performance Goal included in the Vesting Criteria shall be satisfied solely to the extent certified by the Company as indicated in the Notice of Grant.  For purposes of this Agreement, Disability shall mean the Grantee has been determined to be disabled under the long-term disability insurance policy of the Company or the Company determines that a qualified medical professional has opined that the grantee is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months; , if the Grantee is eligible for Retirement (without regard to any required approval of the Committee), then Disability shall mean as defined under Code Section 409A(a)(2)(C) and the regulations promulgated thereunder, and the Grantee shall be deemed to have a Disability on the earliest date that the Grantee is determined to have a Disability either by the Company or as otherwise permitted under Treasury Regulation  1.409A-3(i)(4)(iii).
Effect of Disability
.
provided; however
provided however
 
3.2.
 
   Inthe event of the death of the Grantee, the Service Requirements in the Notice of Grant shall be deemed satisfied; , that any vesting based on the Performance Goal included in the Vesting Criteria shall be satisfied solely to the extent certified by the Company as indicated in the Notice of Grant.
Death of Grantee
.
 
provided; however
 
 
 
 
3.3.
 
  Inthe event of the Grantees Retirement, the Service Requirements in the Notice of Grant shall be deemed satisfied; , that any vesting based on the Performance Goal included in the Vesting Criteria shall be satisfied solely to the extent certified by the Company as indicated in the Notice of Grant.  For purposes of this Agreement, Retirement shall mean, with the approval of the Committee, the Grantees Termination of Employment on or after the date the Grantee attains the age of fifty-nine and a half (59 ) following at least seven (7) years of Service.  Notwithstanding any provision of Section 1 or  Section 3.3 of the Agreement, in the event the Grantee is eligible for Retirement (without regard to any required approval of the Committee) at the time the Committee exercises its discretion to accelerate vesting of all or part of the Restricted Stock Units due to a Change in Control as provided for in Section 2.3 of this Agreement, then the vested Restricted Stock Units shall be settled or payment made to the Grantee on the vesting dates set out in the Notice of Grant for the number of  Restricted Stock Units that would have otherwise vested on such vesting dates or, if earlier, on the date of the Grantees death, Disability or Termination of Employment.
Retirement.
 
provided; however
 
4.
 
This Award of Restricted Stock Units does not entitle you to any rights as a shareholder of the Company unless and until the shares of Stock underlying the Award have been issued to you by registry in book-entry form with the Company.
Shareholder Rights
.
 
 
5.
 
To the extent the Committee does not elect to settle the Restricted Stock Units in cash, the Company will issue the shares of Stock subject to the Restricted Stock Units as non-certificated shares in book-entry form registered in Grantees name.  The purchase price of the shares of Stock is your Service to the Company during the vesting periods. The obligation of the Company to deliver shares of Stock upon the vesting of the Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to all applicable laws, rules, and regulations and such approvals by governmental agencies as may be deemed appropriate to comply with relevant state and federal securities laws and regulations and the rules of any applicable stock exchange.
Issuance of Shares.
 
 
6.
 
  To the extent this Agreement provides for a deferral of compensation subject to Code Section 409A and the regulations promulgated thereunder, this Agreement is intended to and shall be interpreted as necessary to comply with Code Section 409A.  In the event the Committee exercises its discretion to accelerate vesting of the Restricted Stock Units, then the vesting dates in the Notice of Grant shall be the specified payment dates under Treasury Regulation  1.409A-3(a) for settlement or payment of the Restricted Stock Units.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, and solely to the extent required by Code Section 409A, in the event that Grantee is a specified employee under Code Section 409A(a)(2)(i) and the regulations promulgated thereunder on the date of Grantees Termination of Employment, then amounts payable under this Award due to Grantees Termination of Employment (other than for death) shall be accumulated and paid without interest to the Grantee on the first business day of the seventh month following the date of the Grantees Termination of Employment.
Code Section 409A.
 
7.
 
Taxes; Withholding Obligation
.
 
7.1.
 
. Grantee shall be ultimately liable and responsible for all taxes owed in connection with the Award, regardless of any action a Member Company takes with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with the Award. The Member Companies make no representation or undertaking regarding the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the grant or vesting of the Award or the subsequent sale of shares of Stock issuable pursuant to the Award. Neither the Company nor any Member Company is committed or under any obligation to structure the Award to reduce or eliminate your tax liability.
Generally
 
7.2.
 
.
Payment of Withholding Taxes
 
 
 
 
7.2.1.
 
Prior to any event in connection with the Award (e.g., vesting) that the Company determines may result in any domestic or foreign tax withholding obligation, whether national, federal, state or local, including any employment or social tax obligation (the ), Grantee must arrange for the satisfaction of the amount of such Tax Withholding Obligation in a manner acceptable to the Company.
Tax Withholding Obligation
 
7.2.2.
 
Unless Grantee chooses to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by some other means in accordance with Section 7.2.3. below, Grantees acceptance of this Award constitutes Grantees instruction and authorization to the Company, and any brokerage firm determined acceptable to the Company for such purpose, to sell on Grantees behalf (including to the Company or any affiliate of the Company through the retention of a portion of the shares of Stock) a whole number of shares of Stock from those shares of Stock issuable to Grantee as the Company determines to be appropriate to generate cash proceeds sufficient to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation. Such shares of Stock will be sold on the day the Tax Withholding Obligation arises or as soon thereafter as practicable. If applicable, Grantee will be responsible for all brokers fees and other costs of sale, and agrees to indemnify and hold the Company harmless from any losses, costs, damages, or expenses relating to any such sale. To the extent the proceeds of such sale exceed Grantees Tax Withholding Obligation, the Company agrees to pay such excess in cash to Grantee through payroll as soon as practicable. Grantee acknowledges that the Company or its designee is under no obligation to arrange for such sale at any particular price, and that the proceeds of any such sale may not be sufficient to satisfy your Tax Withholding Obligation. Accordingly, Grantee agrees to pay to the Company (or Member Company as applicable) as soon as practicable, including through additional payroll withholding, any amount of the Tax Withholding Obligation that is not satisfied by the sale of shares of Stock described above.
 
7.2.3.
 
At any time not less than five (5) business days before any Tax Withholding Obligation arises Grantee may elect to satisfy his or her Tax Withholding Obligation by delivering to the Company (or Member Company as applicable) an amount that the Company determines is sufficient to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation by (i) wire transfer to such account as the Company may direct, (ii) delivery of a certified check payable to the Company (or Member Company as applicable), or (iii) such other means as the Company may establish or permit.
 
7.2.4.
 
The Company may refuse to issue any shares of Stock to Grantee until Grantee satisfies the Tax Withholding Obligation. To the maximum extent permitted by law, the Company has the right to retain, without notice, from shares of Stock issuable under the Award or from salary or other amounts payable to you, shares of Stock or cash having a value sufficient to satisfy the Tax Withholding Obligation.
 
8.
 
  Nothing in this Agreement shall affect in any manner whatsoever the right or power of a Member Company to terminate Grantees employment for any reason, with or without cause.
No Employment
Rights
.
 
9.
 
Miscellaneous
.
 
9.1.
 
  This Agreement and all acts and transactions pursuant hereto and the rights and obligations of the parties hereto shall be governed, construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the Commonwealth of Virginia, without giving effect to choice of law provisions thereof.  The Circuit Court of the City of Norfolk, Virginia, and the United States District Court, Eastern District of Virginia, Norfolk Division shall be the exclusive courts of jurisdiction or venue for any litigation, special proceedings or other proceedings between the parties that my be brought, or arise out of, in connection with, or by reason of this Agreement and the parties to this Agreement hereby consent to the jurisdiction of such courts.
Governing Law
.
 
9.2.
 
  The Plan and the Notice of Grant are hereby incorporated by reference in this Agreement.  This Agreement (including the Plan and the Notice of Grant) sets forth the entire agreement and understanding of the parties relating to the subject matter herein.  No modification of or amendment to this Agreement, nor any waiver of any rights under this Agreement, shall be effective unless in a writing signed by the Company and the Grantee to this Agreement.  The failure by either party to enforce any rights under this Agreement shall not be construed as a waiver of any rights of such party.
Entire Agreement; Enforcement of Rights
.
 
 
 
 
9.3.
 
  If one or more provisions of this Agreement are held to beunenforceable under applicable law, the parties agree to renegotiate such provision in good faith.  In the event that the parties cannot reach a mutually agreeable and enforceable replacement for such provision, then (i) such provision shall be excluded from this Agreement, (ii) the balance of the Agreement shall be interpreted as if such provision were so excluded and (iii) the balance of the Agreement shall be enforceable in accordance with its terms.
Severability
.
 
 
9.4.
 
  Any notice required or permitted by this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficient when delivered personally or sent by telegram or fax or forty-eight (48) hours after being deposited in the U.S. mail, as certified or registered mail, with postage prepaid, and addressed to the party to be notified at such partys address as set forth below or as subsequently modified by written notice.
Notices
.
 
9.5.
 
  The rights and benefits of this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be enforceable by the Companys successors and assigns.  The rights and obligations of Grantee under this Agreement may only be assigned with the prior written consent of the Company.
Successors and Assigns
.
 
9.6.
 
  In the event the Committee determines that the Grantee has materially violated the provisions of this Section 9.6, the Grantee shall immediately forfeit all unvested Restricted Stock Units.  The Grantee recognizes and acknowledges that the Companys trade secrets, confidential information, and proprietary information, including customer and vendor lists and computer data and programs (collectively Confidential Information), are valuable, special and unique assets of the Companys business, access to and knowledge of which are essential to the performance of the Grantees duties. The Grantee will not, before or after his date of Termination of Employment, in whole or in part, disclose such Confidential Information to any person or entity or make such Confidential Information public for any purpose whatsoever, nor shall the Grantee make use of such Confidential Information for the Grantees own purposes or for the benefit of any person or entity other than the Company under any circumstances before or after the Grantees date of Termination of Employment; provided that this prohibition shall not apply after the Grantees date of Termination of Employment to Confidential Information that has become publicly known through no action of the Grantee. The Grantee shall consider and treat as the Companys property all memoranda, books, records, papers, letters, computer data or programs, or customer lists, including any copies thereof in human- or machine-readable form, in any way relating to the Companys business or affairs, financial or otherwise, whether created by the Grantee or coming into his or her possession, and shall deliver the same to the Company on the date of Termination of Employment or, on demand of the Company, at any earlier time.
Disclosure of Information.
 

Exhibit 10.4
NOTE:                        This document incorporates the accompanying Grant Letter, and together they constitute a single Agreement which governs the terms and conditions of your Option in accordance with the Companys Omnibus Incentive Plan.
THIS AGREEMENT (Agreement), is effective as of the Grant Date specified in the accompanying Grant Letter, by and between the Participant and Dollar Tree, Inc. (Company).
A.           The Company maintains the Omnibus Incentive Plan (Plan).
B.           The Participant has been granted a Non-Employee Director Stock Option under the Plan to purchase shares of Stock at the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the Grant Date.
C.           Key terms and important conditions of the Award are set forth in the cover letter (Grant Letter) which was delivered to the Participant at the same time as this document.  This Agreement contains general provisions relating to the Award.  Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Agreement or the Grant Letter are defined in the Plan.
IT IS AGREED, by and between the Company and the Participant, as follows:
1.           . The following terms used in this Agreement shall have the meanings set forth in this paragraph 1:
Terms of Award
(a)           The Participant is the individual named in the Grant Letter.
(b)           The Grant Date is the date of the Grant Letter.
(c)           The Covered Shares is that number of shares of the Companys Stock specified in the Grant Letter.
(d)           The Exercise Price is the price per common share set forth in the Grant Letter, which shall not be less than the Fair Market Value per share of Stock on the Grant Date.
(e)           Retirement is the resignation from the Board of Directors of the Company after completing seven years of services and attaining age 59 .
Other terms used in this Agreement are defined pursuant to paragraph 8 or elsewhere in this Agreement.
2.            This Agreement specifies the terms of the Option granted to the Participant to purchase the number of Covered Shares at the Exercise Price per share. The Option is not an "incentive stock option" as that term is used in Code section 422.
Award and Exercise Price.
3.           . Subject to the limitations of this Agreement, the Option shall be immediately exercisable, unless otherwise stated in the Grant Letter.  An installment shall not become exercisable on the otherwise applicable vesting date if the Participants Date of Termination (as defined in paragraph 8) occurs on or before such vesting date.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, however, the Option shall become exercisable with respect to all of the Covered Shares (to the extent it is not then otherwise exercisable) as follows.
Date of Exercise
 
 
 
(a)           The Option shall become fully exercisable upon the Participants Date of Termination, if the Participants Date of Termination occurs by reason of the Participants death, Retirement or disability.
(b)           The Option shall become fully exercisable upon a Change in Control, if (i) the Participants Date of Termination does not occur before the Change in Control and (ii) the Committee determines to accelerate such exercisability.  The Option may be exercised on or after the Date of Termination only as to that portion of the Covered Shares as to which it was exercisable immediately prior to the Date of Termination, or as to which it became exercisable on the Date of Termination in accordance with this paragraph 3
.
4.           . The Option shall not be exercisable after the Companys close of business on the last business day that occurs prior to the Expiration Date. The Expiration Date shall be the earliest to occur of:
Expiration
(a)           the ten year anniversary of the Grant Date;
(b)           if the Participants Date of Termination occurs by reason of death, disability or Retirement, the ten-year anniversary of the Grant Date;
(c)           if the Participants Date of Termination occurs for reasons other than Cause, death, disability or retirement, the one-year anniversary of such Date of Termination; or
(d)           if the Participants Date of Termination occurs for Cause, the Date of Termination; or
(e)           the date on which the Committee determines the Participant materially violated (i) the provisions of paragraph 10 below or (ii) any non-competition agreement which the Participant may have entered into with the Company.
5.           .
Method of Option Exercise
(a)           Subject to the terms of this Agreement and the Plan, the Option may be exercised in whole or in part by filing a written notice with the Secretary of the Company at its corporate headquarters prior to the Companys close of business on the last business day that occurs prior to the Expiration Date. Such notice shall specify the number of Covered Shares which the Participant elects to purchase, and shall be accompanied by payment of the Exercise Price for such shares of Stock indicated by the Participants election.
(b)           Payment shall be by cash or by check payable to the Company. Except as otherwise provided by the Committee before the Option is exercised: (i) all or a portion of the Exercise Price may be paid by the Participant by delivery or attestation of shares of Stock that have been owned by the Participant and are otherwise acceptable to the Committee having an aggregate Fair Market Value (valued as of the date of exercise) that is equal to the amount of cash that would otherwise be required; (ii) the Participant may pay the Exercise Price by authorizing a third party to sell shares of Stock (or a sufficient portion of the shares) acquired upon exercise of the Option and remit to the Company a sufficient portion of the sale proceeds to pay the entire Exercise Price and any tax withholding resulting from such exercise; or (iii) such other method as is permitted under the Plan and approved by the Committee.
 
 
 
(c)           The Option shall not be exercisable if and to the extent the Company determines that such exercise would violate applicable state or federal securities laws or the rules and regulations of any securities exchange on which the Stock is traded. If the Company makes such a determination, it shall use all reasonable efforts to obtain compliance with such laws, rules and regulations. In making any determination hereunder, the Company may rely on the opinion of counsel for the Company.
6.           . All deliveries and distributions under this Agreement are subject to withholding of all applicable taxes. The Company is entitled to (a) withhold and deduct from future wages of the Participant (or from other amounts due to Participant) or make other arrangements for the collection of all legally required amounts necessary to satisfy such withholding or (b) require the Participant promptly to remit such amounts to the Company.  At the election of the Participant, and subject to such rules and limitations as may be established by the Committee from time to time, such withholding obligations may be satisfied through the surrender of shares of Stock which the Participant already owns, or to which the Participant is otherwise entitled under the Plan.
Withholding
 
 
7.           .
Transferability
(a)           Except as otherwise provided in paragraph 7(b), the Option is not transferable and during the Participants life, may be exercised only by the Participant. Transfers at death are governed by paragraph 9(c) below.
(b)           The Participant, with the approval of the Committee, may transfer the Option during his or her lifetime for no consideration to or for the benefit of the Participants Immediate Family, subject to such limits as the Committee may establish, and the transferee shall remain subject to all the terms and conditions applicable to the Option prior to such transfer. The foregoing right to transfer the Option shall apply to the right to consent to amendments to this Agreement and, in the discretion of the Committee, shall also apply to the right to transfer ancillary rights associated with the Option.
(c)           The term Immediate Family shall mean Participants family members as defined in the General Instructions to Form S-8 under the Securities Act. The following transactions are not prohibited transfers for consideration: (i) a transfer under a domestic relations order in settlement of marital property rights; and (ii) a transfer to an entity in which more than fifty percent of the voting interests are owned by the Immediate Family (or the Participant) in exchange for an interest in that entity.
8.           . For purposes of this Agreement, the terms used in this Agreement shall be subject to the following:
Definitions
(a)           Cause.  The term Cause shall mean involuntary removal of the Participant as a director for breach of duty, dishonesty, or any other cause, as determined by the Committee.
           Change in Control shall mean the occurrence of any of the following:
(b)
Change in Control. The term
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(c)           Committee.  The Committee shall mean the committee of the Board of Directors administering the Plan.
(d)           Date of Termination. The Participants Date of Termination shall be the first day occurring on or after the Grant Date on which the Participant is not a director of the Company, regardless of the reason for the termination of such status.
(e)           Plan Definitions. Except where the context clearly implies or indicates the contrary, a word, term, or phrase used in the Plan is similarly used in this Agreement.
 
 
9.           .
Binding Effect; Heirs and Successors
(a)           The terms and conditions of this Agreement shall be effective upon delivery to the Participant, with or without execution by the Participant.
(b)           This Agreement shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, the Company and its successors and assigns, and upon any person acquiring, whether by merger, consolidation, purchase of assets or otherwise, all or substantially all of the Companys assets and business.
(c)           If any rights exercisable by the Participant or benefits deliverable to the Participant under this Agreement have not been exercised or delivered, respectively, at the time of the Participants death, such rights shall be exercisable by the Designated Beneficiary, and such benefits shall be delivered to the Designated Beneficiary, in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan. The Designated Beneficiary shall be the beneficiary or beneficiaries designated by the Participant in a writing filed with the Committee in such form and at such time as the Committee shall require. If a deceased Participant fails to designate a beneficiary, or if the Designated Beneficiary does not survive the Participant, any rights that would have been exercisable by the Participant and any benefits distributable to the Participant shall be exercised by or distributed to the legal representative of the estate of the Participant. If a deceased Participant designates a beneficiary and the Designated Beneficiary survives the Participant but dies before the Designated Beneficiarys exercise of all rights under this Agreement or before the complete distribution of benefits to the Designated Beneficiary under this Agreement, then any rights that would have been exercisable by the Designated Beneficiary shall be exercised by the legal representative of the estate of the Designated Beneficiary, and any benefits distributable to the Designated Beneficiary shall be distributed to the legal representative of the estate of the Designated Beneficiary.
 
 
 
10.           .  The Participant recognizes and acknowledges that the Companys trade secrets, confidential information, and proprietary information, including customer and vendor lists and computer data and programs (collectively Confidential Information), are valuable, special and unique assets of the Companys business, access to and knowledge of which are essential to the performance of the Participants duties.  The Participant will not, before or after his Date of Termination, in whole or in part, disclose such Confidential Information to any person or entity or make such Confidential Information public for any purpose whatsoever, nor shall the Participant make use of such Confidential Information for the Participants own purposes or for the benefit of any person or entity other than the Company under any circumstances before or after the Participants Date of Termination; provided that this prohibition shall not apply after the Participants Date of Termination to Confidential Information that has become publicly known through no action of the Participant.  The Participant shall consider and treat as the Companys property all memoranda, books, records, papers, letters, computer data or programs, or customer lists, including any copies thereof in human- or machine-readable form, in any way relating to the Companys business or affairs, financial or otherwise, whether created by the Participant or coming into his or her possession, and shall deliver the same to the Company on the Date of Termination or, on demand of the Company, at any earlier time.
Disclosure of Information
11.           . The authority to manage and control the operation and administration of this Agreement shall be vested in the Committee, and the Committee shall have all powers with respect to this Agreement as it has with respect to the Plan. Any interpretation of the Agreement by the Committee and any decision made by it with respect to the Agreement is final and binding on all persons.  Such powers or decision-making may be delegated, to the extent permitted by the Plan, to one or more of Committee members or any other person or persons selected by the Committee.
Administration
 
 
12.           . Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, the terms of this Agreement shall wholly incorporate and be subject to the terms of the Plan, a copy of which may be obtained from the Chief People Officer of the Company (or such other party as the Company may designate); and this Agreement is subject to all interpretations, amendments, rules and regulations promulgated by the Committee from time to time pursuant to the Plan.
Plan Governs
13.           .
No Implied Rights
(a)  The Option will not confer on the Participant any right with respect to continuance of employment or other service with the Company or any Subsidiary, nor will it interfere in any way with any right the Company or any Subsidiary would otherwise have to terminate or modify the terms of such Participants employment or other service at any time.
(b)  The Participant shall not have any rights of a shareholder with respect to the shares subject to the Option, until a stock certificate has been duly issued following exercise of the Option as provided herein.
14.           . Any written notices provided for in this Agreement or the Plan shall be in writing and shall be deemed sufficiently given if either hand delivered or if sent by fax or overnight courier, or by postage paid first class mail. Notices sent by mail shall be deemed received three business days after mailing but in no event later than the date of actual receipt. Notices shall be directed, if to the Participant, at the Participants address indicated by the Companys records, or if to the Company, at the Companys principal executive office.
Notices
 
 
 
15.           . In lieu of issuing a fraction of a share upon any exercise of the Option, resulting from an adjustment of the Option pursuant to Section 4.2(f) of the Plan or otherwise, the Company will be entitled to pay to the Participant an amount equal to the fair market value of such fractional share.
Fractional Shares
16.           . This Agreement may be amended by written agreement of the Participant and the Company, without the consent of any other person.
Amendment
17.           .  This Agreement shall be governed by the law of the Commonwealth of Virginia without giving effect to the choice-of-law provisions thereof.  The Circuit Court of the City of Norfolk and the United States District Court, Eastern District of Virginia, Norfolk Division shall be the exclusive courts of jurisdiction and venue for any litigation, special proceeding or other proceeding as between the parties that may be brought, or arise out of, in connection with, or by reason of this Agreement.  The parties hereby consent to the jurisdiction of such courts.
Governing Law; Jurisdiction



