FILE:ZMH/ZMH-8K-20030919145315.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
================================================================================ SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 ------------------------------ FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported) -- September 19, 2003 ---------------------------------------------------------------------- ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) DELAWARE 001-16407 13-4151777 - ---------------------------- ------------------------ ------------------- (State or other jurisdiction (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer of Incorporation) Identification No.) 345 EAST MAIN STREET, WARSAW, INDIANA 46580 - ------------------------------------------------------- ------------------- (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code) (574) 267-6131 - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) ================================================================================
Item 5. Other Events. On September 19, 2003, Zimmer Holdings, Inc. ("Zimmer") announced pursuant to Swiss law the definitive final results of its offer for all of the outstanding registered shares (including shares represented by American depositary shares ("ADSs")) of Centerpulse AG ("Centerpulse" and, such offer, the "Offer") and Zimmer's offer for all of the outstanding bearer shares of InCentive Capital AG ("InCentive"), which beneficially owns 2,237,577 Centerpulse registered shares representing approximately 18.3% of the issued Centerpulse shares (such offer, the "InCentive Offer" and, together with the Offer, the "Offers"). Based on information provided by Credit Suisse First Boston and Mellon Investor Services LLC (the Swiss offer manager and the U.S. exchange agent, respectively, for the Offer), as of the expiration of the subsequent offering period, an aggregate of 9,006,144 Centerpulse registered shares and 8,585,666 ADSs, including 321,201 ADSs subject to guaranteed delivery, were tendered and not withdrawn in the initial offering period and subsequent offering period. Based on information provided by Centerpulse, the foregoing shares and ADSs represent approximately 80.5% and, together with the Centerpulse registered shares held by InCentive, 98.7% of the issued Centerpulse registered shares (including shares represented by ADSs). Based on information provided by Credit Suisse First Boston (the Swiss offer manager for the InCentive Offer), an aggregate of 2,146,871 InCentive bearer shares were tendered and not withdrawn in the initial offering period and subsequent offering period. The foregoing shares represent approximately 99.9% of the issued InCentive bearer shares. Based on the results of the mix and match elections in the Offers, holders of Centerpulse registered shares and ADSs who elected to receive "as many shares of Zimmer common stock as possible" will receive 3.7947 shares of Zimmer common stock and CHF 112.83 net in cash for each tendered registered share and 0.3795 of a share of Zimmer common stock and the U.S. dollar equivalent of CHF 11.28 in cash for each tendered ADS. Holders of Centerpulse registered shares and ADSs who elected to receive "as much cash as possible" will receive CHF 350.00 net in cash for each tendered registered share and the U.S. dollar equivalent of CHF 35.00 net in cash for each tendered ADS. Holders of Centerpulse registered shares and ADSs who elected to receive the "standard entitlement" or who did not make any mix and match elections will receive 3.68 shares of Zimmer common stock and CHF 120.00 net in cash for each tendered registered share and 0.368 of a share of Zimmer common stock and the U.S. dollar equivalent of CHF 12.00 for each tendered ADS. In addition, based on the above-described mix and match results, holders of InCentive bearer shares who elected to receive "as many shares of Zimmer common stock as possible" will receive 4.0059 shares of Zimmer common stock and CHF 168.15 net in cash for each tendered bearer share. Holders of InCentive bearer shares who elected to receive "as much cash as possible" will receive CHF 418.52 net in cash for each tendered bearer share. Holders of InCentive bearer shares who elected to receive the "standard entitlement" or who did not make any mix and match elections will receive 3.8349 shares of Zimmer common stock and CHF 178.84 net in cash for each tendered bearer share. The above announcements were made in a press release, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1. Also on September 19, 2003, Zimmer made an announcement, the English translation of which is attached hereto as exhibit 99.2, relating to the Offer, as well as an announcement, the English translation of which is attached hereto as exhibit 99.3, relating to the InCentive Offer. Item 7. Financial Statements and Exhibits. (c) Exhibits. 99.1 Press Release of Zimmer Holdings, Inc., dated September 19, 2003. 99.2 Announcement of Zimmer Holdings, Inc., dated September 19, 2003. 99.3 Announcement of Zimmer Holdings, Inc., dated September 19, 2003. 2
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Zimmer Holdings, Inc. has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. By: /s/ David C. Dvorak -------------------------------------- David C. Dvorak Senior Vice President, Corporate Affairs, General Counsel and Secretary Date: September 19, 2003
EXHIBIT INDEX EXHIBIT NO. DESCRIPTION - ---------- ----------------------------------------------------------------- 99.1 Press Release of Zimmer Holdings, Inc., dated September 19, 2003. 99.2 Announcement of Zimmer Holdings, Inc., dated September 19, 2003. 99.3 Announcement of Zimmer Holdings, Inc., dated September 19, 2003. 4

Exhibit 99.1 Contact: MEDIA INVESTORS Brad Bishop Sam Leno Public Affairs Chief Financial Officer 574-372-4291 574-372-4790 bradley.bishop@zimmer.com sam.leno@zimmer.com ZIMMER ANNOUNCES DEFINITIVE FINAL RESULTS OF EXCHANGE OFFERS FOR CENTERPULSE AND INCENTIVE CAPITAL ---------------------------- SHARES TENDERED TO ZIMMER IN THE EXCHANGE OFFERS REPRESENT 98.7% OWNERSHIP INTEREST IN CENTERPULSE (WARSAW, IN) SEPTEMBER 19, 2003 - Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (NYSE: ZMH) announced today the definitive final results of Zimmer's exchange offer for Centerpulse AG. Zimmer also announced the corresponding results of its exchange offer for InCentive Capital AG, which beneficially owns 2,237,577 Centerpulse registered shares representing approximately 18.3% of the issued Centerpulse shares. The subsequent offering period (or additional acceptance period) for each of Zimmer's exchange offers expired at 4:00 p.m., Central European time, 10:00 a.m., New York City time, on Monday, September 15, 2003. Based on information provided by Credit Suisse First Boston and Mellon Investor Services LLC (the Swiss offer manager and the U.S. exchange agent, respectively, for Zimmer's Centerpulse offer), an aggregate of 9,006,144 Centerpulse registered shares and 8,585,666 Centerpulse American depositary shares ("ADSs"), including 321,201 Centerpulse ADSs subject to guaranteed delivery, were tendered and not withdrawn in the initial offering period and subsequent offering period. Based on information provided by Centerpulse, the foregoing shares and ADSs represent approximately 80.5% and, together with the Centerpulse registered shares held by InCentive Capital, 98.7% of the issued Centerpulse registered shares (including shares represented by Centerpulse ADSs). Based on information provided by Credit Suisse First Boston (the Swiss offer manager for Zimmer's InCentive Capital offer), an aggregate of 2,146,871 bearer shares of InCentive Capital were tendered and not withdrawn in the initial offering period and subsequent offering period. The foregoing shares represent approximately 99.9% of the issued bearer shares of InCentive Capital.
"Just four months ago, we announced our plan to create an orthopaedics powerhouse, one with a unique combination of leading market positions, cutting edge technology and global scale," said Ray Elliott, Chairman, President and CEO of Zimmer. "We are extremely gratified by the support we have received from the employees, customers and shareholders of both companies, and look forward to closing the transaction in just two short weeks." Based on the results of the mix and match elections in Zimmer's Centerpulse offer and InCentive Capital offer, holders of Centerpulse registered shares and Centerpulse ADSs who elected to receive "as many shares of Zimmer common stock as possible" will receive 3.7947 shares of Zimmer common stock and CHF 112.83 net in cash for each tendered registered share and 0.3795 of a share of Zimmer common stock and the U.S. dollar equivalent of CHF 11.28 net in cash for each tendered ADS. Holders of Centerpulse registered shares and Centerpulse ADSs who elected to receive "as much cash as possible" will receive CHF 350.00 net in cash for each tendered registered share and the U.S. dollar equivalent of CHF 35.00 net in cash for each tendered ADS. Holders of Centerpulse registered shares and Centerpulse ADSs who elected to receive the "standard entitlement" or who did not make any mix and match elections will receive 3.68 shares of Zimmer common stock and CHF 120.00 net in cash for each tendered registered share and 0.368 of a share of Zimmer common stock and the U.S. dollar equivalent of CHF 12.00 net in cash for each tendered ADS. In addition, based on the above-described mix and match election results, holders of bearer shares of InCentive Capital who elected to receive "as many shares of Zimmer common stock as possible" will receive 4.0059 shares of Zimmer common stock and CHF 168.15 net in cash for each tendered bearer share. Holders of bearer shares of InCentive Capital who elected to receive "as much cash as possible" will receive CHF 418.52 net in cash for each tendered bearer share. Holders of bearer shares of InCentive Capital who elected to receive the "standard entitlement" or who did not make any mix and match elections will receive 3.8349 shares of Zimmer common stock and CHF 178.84 net in cash for each tendered bearer share. As previously announced, the exchange of Centerpulse registered shares, Centerpulse ADSs and bearer shares of InCentive Capital for shares of Zimmer common stock and cash will take place on October 2, 2003. Shares of Zimmer common stock to be issued pursuant to the exchange offers have been authorized for listing on the New York Stock Exchange. Zimmer has applied for a secondary listing of its shares of common stock on the SWX Swiss Exchange. Zimmer expects these shares to begin trading on the SWX Swiss Exchange immediately following the consummation of the exchange offers. Zimmer intends promptly to initiate the compulsory acquisition process under Swiss law with respect to both Centerpulse and InCentive Capital. Under the Swiss compulsory acquisition process, subject to approval by the relevant Swiss authorities, each Centerpulse registered share (including shares represented by Centerpulse ADSs) and each bearer share of InCentive Capital that remain outstanding will be cancelled and converted into the right to receive the consideration offered in Zimmer's Centerpulse offer and InCentive Capital offer, respectively. 2
SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT This press release contains forward-looking statements based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the orthopaedics industry, management's beliefs and assumptions made by management. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as "may," "will," "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "targets," "forecasts," and "seeks" or the negative of such terms or other variations on such terms or comparable terminology. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, price and product competition, rapid technological development, demographic changes, dependence on new product development, the mix of our products and services, supply and prices of raw materials and products, customer demand for our products and services, our ability to successfully integrate acquired companies, control of costs and expenses, our ability to form and implement alliances, international growth, U.S. and foreign government regulation, product liability and intellectual property litigation losses, reimbursement levels from third-party payors, general industry and market conditions and growth rates and general domestic and international economic conditions including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations. In particular, forward-looking statements as to Zimmer's financial and business performance following the proposed acquisitions should be qualified by the absence of the opportunity for Zimmer to perform comprehensive due diligence on Centerpulse or InCentive Capital AG, a significant shareholder of Centerpulse. These forward- looking statements might have been significantly different had such due diligence review been undertaken. For a further list and description of such risks and uncertainties, see the disclosure materials filed by Zimmer with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Zimmer disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Readers of this document are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, since, while we believe the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document. This press release is neither an offer to purchase nor a solicitation of an offer to sell any securities. Any exchange offer will be made only through a registration statement and related materials. In connection with the exchange offers, Zimmer has filed registration statements on Form S-4 (each containing a prospectus/offer to purchase) and a proxy statement on Schedule 14A with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and submitted Swiss offer prospectuses to the Swiss Takeover Board. Investors and security holders of Centerpulse, InCentive Capital and Zimmer are advised to read these disclosure materials (including other disclosure materials when they become available), because these materials contain important information. Investors and security holders may obtain a free copy of the disclosure materials and other documents filed by Zimmer with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. The disclosure materials and other documents of Zimmer may also be obtained from Zimmer upon request by directing such request to Sam Leno, Senior Vice President and CFO, 574-372-4790. 3
ABOUT ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC. Zimmer, based in Warsaw, Indiana, is a worldwide leader in the design, development, manufacture and marketing of reconstructive orthopaedic implants and trauma products. Orthopaedic reconstruction implants restore joint function lost due to disease or trauma in joints such as knees, hips, shoulders and elbows. Trauma products are devices used primarily to reattach or stabilize damaged bone and tissue to support the body's natural healing process. Zimmer manufactures and markets other products related to orthopaedic surgery. For the year 2002, the Company recorded worldwide revenues of $1.37 billion. Zimmer was founded in 1927 and has more than 3,600 employees worldwide. # # # Additional contacts: Switzerland: Hirzel. Neef. Schmid. Konsulenten Aloys Hirzel/+41 43 344 42 49/a-hirzel@konsulenten.ch Andreas Thommen/+41 43 344 42 49/ a-thommen@konsulenten.ch U.K.: M Communications Hugh Morrison/+44 207 153 1534/morrison@mcomgroup.com Nick Miles/+44 207 153 1535/miles@mcomgroup.com 4

 
Exhibit 99.2
Wilmington, Delaware, U.S.A.
ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC.
DEFINITIVE FINAL RESULTS OF THE PUBLIC EXCHANGE AND CASH OFFER FOR ALL OUTSTANDING REGISTERED SHARES (INCLUDING REGISTERED SHARES REPRESENTED BY AMERICAN DEPOSITARY SHARES) OF CENTERPULSE AG, ZURICH, SWITZERLAND, HAVING A NOMINAL VALUE OF CHF 30.00 PER SHARE
On June 19, 2003, Zimmer Holdings, Inc., Wilmington, Delaware, U.S.A. (), commenced a public exchange and cash offer for all outstanding registered shares (including registered shares represented by American depositary shares) of Centerpulse AG, Zurich, Switzerland (and such offer, the ).
"Zimmer"
"Centerpulse"
"Offer"
At the same time, Zimmer commenced a separate public exchange and cash offer for all outstanding bearer shares of InCentive Capital AG, Zug, Switzerland (and such offer, the ), which currently is a beneficial owner of 2,237,577 Centerpulse Shares (approximately 18.3 % of the issued Centerpulse Shares).
"InCentive"
"InCentive Offer"
 
Zurich, September 19, 2003
Statements Regarding this Announcement and Zimmer's Exchange Offers
This announcement is neither an offer to purchase nor a solicitation of an offer to sell any securities. Any exchange offer has been and will be made only through a registration statement and related materials. In connection with Zimmer's exchange offers, Zimmer has filed registration statements on Form S-4 (each containing a U.S. prospectus) and a proxy statement on Schedule 14A with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and has submitted Swiss offer prospectuses to the Swiss Takeover Board. Investors and securityholders of Centerpulse, InCentive and Zimmer are advised to read these disclosure materials (including other disclosure materials when they become available), because these materials contain important information. Investors and securityholders may obtain a free copy of the disclosure materials and other documents filed by Zimmer with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. The disclosure materials and other documents of Zimmer may also be obtained from Innisfree M&A Incorporated, the information agent for the Offer, at (877) 750-5836. Additionally, the Swiss offer prospectuses in German, French or English, which include as an exhibit the U.S. prospectus, can be ordered free of charge from Credit Suisse First Boston, Zurich (phone: +41 1 333 43 85, fax: +41 1 333 23 88, e-mail: equity.prospectus@csfb.com).
United States of America
The shares of Zimmer Common Stock offered in its exchange offers may not be offered or sold in the United Kingdom, by means of Zimmer's offer documents or any other document, other than to persons whose ordinary activities involve them in acquiring, holding, managing or disposing of investments (as principal or agent) for the purposes of their businesses or otherwise in circumstances which will not result in an offer to the public in the United Kingdom within the meaning of the Public Offers of Securities Regulations 1995.
United Kingdom Restriction on Distribution of these Documents
If you are in any doubt about the action you should take, you are recommended immediately to seek your own personal financial advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent financial adviser duly authorized under the Financial Services & Markets Act 2000 if you are resident in the United Kingdom or, if not, another appropriately authorized independent financial adviser.
Zimmer's offer documents relating to Zimmer's exchange offer for Centerpulse are important and require your immediate attention.
The distribution of Zimmer's offer documents and the making of its exchange offers may, in certain jurisdictions, be restricted by law. Zimmer's exchange offers are not being made, directly or indirectly, in or into, and will not be capable of acceptance from or within, any jurisdiction in which the making of such exchange offers or the acceptance thereof would not be in compliance with the laws of that jurisdiction. Persons who come into possession of Zimmer's offer documents should inform themselves of and observe any of these restrictions. Any failure to comply with these restrictions may constitute a violation of the securities laws of any of these jurisdictions. Zimmer does not assume any responsibility for any violation by any person of any of these restrictions.
Sales Restrictions in Certain Countries and Jurisdictions
Zimmer is not making any exchange offers in or into  and Zimmer's exchange offers may not be accepted in or from  Australia, Canada or Japan.

 
Exhibit 99.3
Wilmington, Delaware, U.S.A.
ZIMMER HOLDINGS, INC.
DEFINITIVE FINAL RESULTS OF THE PUBLIC EXCHANGE AND CASH OFFER FOR ALL OUTSTANDING BEARER SHARES OF INCENTIVE CAPITAL AG, ZUG, SWITZERLAND, HAVING A NOMINAL VALUE OF CHF 20.00 PER SHARE
On June 19, 2003, Zimmer Holdings, Inc., Wilmington, Delaware, U.S.A. (), commenced a public exchange and cash offer for all outstanding bearer shares of InCentive Capital AG, Zug, Switzerland and such offer, the ). Based on the price formula for the Offer, each outstanding bearer share of InCentive having a nominal value of CHF 20.00 per share () will be exchanged for 3.8349 shares of common stock of Zimmer having a par value of USD 0.01 per share (), plus CHF 178.84 net in cash, without interest, subject to the mix and match election.
"Zimmer"
("InCentive"
"Offer"
"InCentive Share"
"Zimmer Common Stock"
At the same time, Zimmer commenced a separate public exchange and cash offer for all outstanding registered shares of Centerpulse AG, Zurich, Switzerland (and such offer, the ). InCentive currently is a beneficial owner of 2,237,577 Centerpulse Shares (approximately 18.3 % of the issued Centerpulse Shares).
"Centerpulse Shares"
"Centerpulse Offer"
 
Zurich, September 19, 2003
Statements Regarding this Announcement and Zimmer's Exchange Offers
This announcement is neither an offer to purchase nor a solicitation of an offer to sell any securities. Any exchange offer has been and will be made only through a registration statement and related materials. In connection with Zimmer's exchange offers, Zimmer has filed registration statements on Form S-4 (each containing a U.S. prospectus) and a proxy statement on Schedule 14A with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and has submitted Swiss offer prospectuses to the Swiss Takeover Board. Investors and security holders of Centerpulse AG, InCentive and Zimmer are advised to read these disclosure materials (including other disclosure materials when they become available), because these materials contain important information. Investors and security holders may obtain a free copy of the disclosure materials and other documents filed by Zimmer with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. The disclosure materials and other documents of Zimmer may also be obtained from Innisfree M&A Incorporated, the information agent for the Centerpulse offer, at (877) 750-5836. Additionally, the Swiss offer prospectuses in German, French or English, which include as an exhibit the U.S. prospectus, can be ordered free of charge from Credit Suisse First Boston, Zurich (phone: +41 1 333 43 85, fax: +41 1 333 23 88, e-mail: equity.prospectus@csfb.com).
United States of America
The shares of Zimmer common stock offered in its exchange offers may not be offered or sold in the United Kingdom, by means of Zimmer's offer documents or any other document, other than to persons whose ordinary activities involve them in acquiring, holding, managing or disposing of investments (as principal or agent) for the purposes of their businesses or otherwise in circumstances which will not result in an offer to the public in the United Kingdom within the meaning of the Public Offers of Securities Regulations 1995.
United Kingdom Restriction on Distribution of this Document
If you are in any doubt about the action you should take, you are recommended immediately to seek your own personal financial advice from your stockbroker, bank manager, solicitor, accountant or other independent financial adviser duly authorized under the Financial Services & Markets Act 2000 if you are resident in the United Kingdom or, if not, another appropriately authorized independent financial adviser.
Zimmer's offer documents relating to Zimmer's exchange offer for InCentive are important and require your immediate attention.
The distribution of Zimmer's offer documents and the making of its exchange offers may, in certain jurisdictions, be restricted by law. Zimmer's exchange offers are not being made, directly or indirectly, in or into, and will not be capable of acceptance from or within, any jurisdiction in which the making of such exchange offers or the acceptance thereof would not be in compliance with the laws of that jurisdiction. Persons who come into possession of Zimmer's offer documents should inform themselves of and observe any of these restrictions. Any failure to comply with these restrictions may constitute a violation of the securities laws of any of these jurisdictions. Zimmer does not assume any responsibility for any violation by any person of any of these restrictions.
Sales Restrictions in Certain Countries and Jurisdictions
Zimmer is not making any exchange offers in or into  and Zimmer's exchange offers may not be accepted in or from  Australia, Canada or Japan.


