FILE:ZMH/ZMH-8K-20040331170753.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
 
 
This report amends Item 7 (b) of Amendment No. 1 to the current report on Form 8-K of Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (the "Company") on December 16, 2003.
Item 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits.
     (b) Pro Forma Financial Information.
     The following sets forth pro forma condensed combined financial information (i) derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Zimmer Holdings Inc. (the "Company" or "Zimmer") for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002 and the unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements of Zimmer for the nine month period ended September 30, 2003 and (ii) derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of Centerpulse AG ("Centerpulse") for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2002, which have been incorporated by reference into this Current Report on Form 8-K/A, and the unaudited consolidated financial statements of Centerpulse for the nine month period ended September 30, 2003, which have been included in this Current Report on Form 8-K/A. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of September 30, 2003 is based on the consolidated financial statements of Zimmer and the consolidated financial statements of Centerpulse and has been adjusted to give effect to the Exchange Offers as if they had occurred on September 30, 2003. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2002 and the nine month period ended September 30, 2003 are based on the consolidated financial statements of Zimmer and the consolidated financial statements of Centerpulse and have been adjusted to give effect to the Exchange Offers as if they had occurred on January 1, 2002.
     Centerpulse's consolidated financial statements, from which these pro forma financial statements are derived, were prepared in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS"), which differ in certain material respects from accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ("U.S. GAAP"). The necessary adjustments have been made within the pro forma financial statements to adjust the Centerpulse financial statements to U.S. GAAP. Significant differences between IFRS and U.S. GAAP, as they currently relate to Centerpulse, include, among other things:
 
     The Centerpulse consolidated financial statements were prepared in Swiss francs and have been translated to U.S. dollars at the appropriate exchange rates. The pro forma condensed combined statements of earnings only include the continuing operations of Centerpulse acquired by Zimmer, and therefore differ from the historical consolidated financial statements of Centerpulse. Material acquisition and integration expenses and related tax effects directly resulting from the transaction have been excluded from the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of earnings. Certain reclassifications were made to the Centerpulse consolidated financial statements to conform them to Zimmer's presentation.
     The following pro forma financial information is presented for illustrative purposes only and is not necessarily indicative of (i) results of operations and financial position that would have been achieved had the Exchange Offers taken place on the dates indicated or (ii) the future operations of the combined company.
     The acquisition of Centerpulse will be accounted for under the purchase method of accounting. Under this method, the purchase price will be allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on fair value. For purposes of this pro forma information, the total purchase price was estimated to be $3,449 million and preliminary estimates were made regarding the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities. The actual fair values may vary from the preliminary estimates. The purchase price was estimated on the basis of cash paid to Centerpulse and InCentive shareholders of $1,187 million, Zimmer shares exchanged of $2,224 million and direct acquisition costs of $38 million
     Certain costs related to the integration of Zimmer and Centerpulse have not been reflected in the pro forma financial information below as the timing and effect of actions associated with integration are as yet uncertain. However, these costs, as further described in the Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statements of Earnings are expected to be significant.
     Operating results for InCentive for the year ended December 31, 2002 and for the nine months ended September 30, 2003 have been excluded from the pro forma financial information as the assets acquired in the Exchange Offers consisted of only Centerpulse registered shares and cash. The effects of the Centerpulse shares and cash acquired by Zimmer in the InCentive Offer have been reflected in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet.
     The following pro forma financial information should be read in conjunction with:
 
 
     Centerpulse amounts have been translated into U.S. dollars at a rate of CHF 1.56 = US$1.00, the average daily exchange rate for the year ended December 31, 2002.
U.S. GAAP and Reclassification Adjustments
     (a) Centerpulse's consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with IFRS, which differ in certain material respects from U.S. GAAP. Centerpulse also classified certain costs differently than Zimmer in their consolidated statement of earnings. The following schedule summarizes the necessary material adjustments to conform the Centerpulse consolidated statement of earnings for the year ended December 31, 2002 to U.S. GAAP and to reclassify certain costs to Zimmer's basis of presentation.
 
 
Other Adjustments
     (b) Reflects the following adjustments to costs of products sold:
     The purpose of the depreciation expense adjustment is to recognize the additional depreciation expense on the increase in the value of acquired property, plant and equipment. The increase results from the recognition of assets at fair value as of the acquisition date. Refer to note (d) on the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheet. The depreciation adjustment was calculated by dividing the anticipated step up in value by the remaining useful life of the property, plant and equipment, estimated to be six years.
     The amortization expense adjustment eliminates amortization expense associated with historical values of Centerpulse intangible assets. A new basis is established for the value of Centerpulse intangible assets as of the acquisition date. Refer to note (e) on the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheet. Amortization of the new basis is reflected in selling, general and administrative expenses. Refer to note (c) immediately following.
     (c) Includes the following adjustments to selling, general and administrative expense:
     The amortization expense adjustment reflects amortization expense related to estimated technology, trademark and customer related intangible assets of Centerpulse over periods ranging from seven to thirty years. A new basis is established for the value of Centerpulse intangible assets as of the acquisition date. Amortization expense was determined based on the useful lives of finite lived intangible assets using the straight line method. Refer to note (e) on the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheet for details of finite lived intangible assets and their useful lives.
     Effective January 1, 2003, Zimmer changed its accounting policy for loaner instruments from an expense based method to an asset based method. See note 4 to Zimmer's September 30, 2003 Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for a detailed discussion of the accounting change. The depreciation expense adjustment reflects the impact on Zimmer's instrument expense, assuming the new asset-based accounting policy had been applied from the beginning of the period.
 
     (d) Includes the following adjustments:
     Reflects the elimination of $(26) million of interest expense on existing borrowings replaced by estimated interest expense of $38 million on approximately $1,338 million in total debt incurred under the new Zimmer $1.75 billion senior credit facility. Refer to note (h) on the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheet. The $1.75 billion Zimmer credit facility contains: (i) $400 million 364-day revolving credit facility, (ii) $800 million three-year revolving credit facility and (iii) 550 million five-year term loan facility. Based on Zimmer's current investment grade rating from Standard and Poor's and from Moody's, the applicable interest rate and facility fees under the revolving facilities is LIBOR plus 87.5 basis points, and under the term loan, is LIBOR plus 112.5 basis points. Interest expense was calculated using a weighted average annual interest rate of 2.1 percent, calculated on constant debt levels throughout the year. Interest expense also includes amortization of debt issuance costs. A 1/8 percent change in the annual interest rate would increase or decrease interest expense by approximately $2 million.
     (e) Reflects the income tax effects of adjustments based upon the statutory tax rates in effect for the year ended December 31, 2002.
     (f) The increase in weighted average common shares outstanding for the basic and diluted earnings per share calculations reflects the issuance of 44,538,770 shares of Zimmer common stock issued in the Exchange Offers.
Other transaction related costs
     The objective of the pro forma information provided herein is to provide information about the continuing impact of the Exchange Offers by showing how it might have affected historical operating results if the Exchange Offers had been consummated at the beginning of the most recent full fiscal year. As such, charges directly resulting from the transaction are necessarily excluded from the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of earnings. Zimmer expects to incur non-cash charges directly resulting from the transaction as of and within the twelve-month period succeeding the transaction, estimated as follows:
     Refer to note k) under Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheet for further description of in-process research and development.
 
     The step-up of inventories to their respective fair values, as required by SFAS No. 141, results in an increase in cost of products sold as the inventory is sold to third party customers, which is expected to occur within the twelve month period succeeding the transaction.
     Retention payments and other employee related costs, costs for lease terminations, meetings, training, re-branding, integration of information technology systems, and other cash costs are anticipated in connection with the integration of Zimmer and Centerpulse. Pending final management approval of the integration plans, certain costs, estimated to amount to $140 million, are expected to be reported as acquisition and integration expense. Additional costs, estimated to amount to $60 million, are expected to be added to the Centerpulse purchase price in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In addition, the Company expects to incur an estimated $10 to $12 million associated with the ongoing informal SEC investigation of Centerpulse.
 
 
     Centerpulse amounts have been translated into U.S. dollars at the September 30, 2003 exchange rate of CHF 1.32 = US$1.00.
U.S. GAAP and Reclassification Adjustments
     (a) Centerpulse's consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with IFRS, which differ in certain material respects from U.S. GAAP. Centerpulse also classified certain amounts differently than Zimmer in their consolidated balance sheet. The following schedule summarizes the necessary material adjustments to conform the Centerpulse consolidated balance sheet as of September 30, 2003 to U.S. GAAP and to reclassify certain amounts to Zimmer's basis of presentation.
 
 
Other Adjustments
     (b) Reflects the adjustment to state Centerpulse inventory at its estimated fair market value as of the acquisition date in accordance with SFAS No. 141.
     (c) Reflects the capitalization of $20 million of debt issuance costs ($10 million current and $10 million non-current) that will be amortized over the lives of the components of the $1.75 billion senior credit facility.
     (d) Reflects the adjustment to state Centerpulse property, plant and equipment at its estimated fair market value as of the acquisition date in accordance with SFAS 141. Refer to Note (f) below for details on the purchase price allocation, including the step-up in value of Centerpulse property, plant and equipment.
     (e) Intangible assets are adjusted to reflect an estimated allocation of: (i) $275 million to brand assets encompassing the trademarks and trade names of Centerpulse, of which $243 million are considered to have an indefinite useful life and $32 million are expected to have estimated useful lives of approximately 11 years, (ii) $424 million to technology assets comprised of current product technology with an expected useful life of approximately fourteen years and core technology that is expected to have a useful life of approximately nineteen years and (iii) $34 million to customer related intangible assets which represents the value of relationships with customers that are expected to have a useful life of thirty years. The estimated useful lives of the intangible assets were determined based upon the nature and characteristics of each respective asset.
     The adjustments necessary to record Centerpulse intangible assets are as follows:
     (f) This amount reflects the goodwill resulting from recording the Centerpulse assets acquired and liabilities assumed at their estimated fair values. In accordance with EITF 99-12, "Determination of the
 
Measurement Date for the Market Price of Acquirer Securities Issued in a Purchase Business Combination", the fair value of the Company's common stock issued pursuant to the Exchange Offers was estimated to be $49.93 per share based upon the market price of the Company's common stock over a reasonable period of time two days before and after the date when sufficient Centerpulse and InCentive shares had been tendered to make the Exchange Offers binding (August 27, 2003). Zimmer common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the ticker symbol "ZMH''. The table below summarizes closing market prices for Zimmer common stock for the period indicated above.
     The number of Zimmer shares issued in the exchange was determined on the basis of the number of Centerpulse common shares and ADRs tendered multiplied by the respective exchange ratios, as follows:
     The fair market value of shares issued in the exchange is the product of the average closing price from above multiplied by the number of shares issued, illustrated as follows:
As of the acquisition date, there were less than two thousand Centerpulse options outstanding. The fair value of those options is immaterial.
     The Company completed the preliminary purchase price allocation in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The process included interviews with Company management, review of the economic and competitive environment in which the Company operates and examination of assets and liabilities including historical performance and future prospects. The purchase price allocation was based on information currently available to the Company, and expectations and assumptions deemed reasonable by the Company's management. The purchase price was estimated and allocated as follows:
 
     The following entries are required to recognize new goodwill associated with the acquisition:
     (g) Reflects the income tax effects of the purchase price allocation to acquired tangible and intangible assets, as follows:
     Deferred tax liabilities have been estimated related to the difference in book and tax basis in assets established or re-valued in relation to the acquisition of Centerpulse. Statutory tax rates were applied based on the specific taxing jurisdiction of the adjustment.
 
     (h) In connection with the Exchange Offers, the Company entered into the following committed financing arrangements: (i) $400 million 364-day revolving credit facility, (ii) $800 million three-year revolving credit facility and (iii) $550 million five-year term loan facility, (collectively, the ''Senior Credit Facility''). The Company's Senior Credit Facility was used to fund the cash portion of the Exchange Offers, refinance the existing debt of both the Company and Centerpulse and pay certain closing costs. Effective as of the Closing Date, the Company terminated its $600 million committed, multi-currency revolving senior credit facility. The following adjustments reflect the amounts of short and long term borrowings drawn on the senior credit facility together with the repayment of outstanding Centerpulse and Zimmer debt as of the acquisition date.
     (i) Reflects the elimination of shareholders' equity in Centerpulse.
     (j) Reflects an increase in equity of $2,224 million for the fair value of Zimmer shares issued in exchange for Centerpulse shares, offset by estimated costs of $(14) million for registering and issuing the Zimmer shares and elimination of $(799) million of Centerpulse paid in capital.
     (k) Reflects the elimination of Centerpulse's retained earnings of $(53) million and the allocation of $(12) million to in-process research and development, defined as the value assigned to projects for which the related products have not received regulatory approval and have no alternative future use.
     (l) Reflects $(323) million of Company funds used to fund the Exchange Offers offset by $83 million of cash acquired from InCentive in the Exchange Offers.
 
     Centerpulse's unaudited consolidated statement of earnings for the nine month period ended September 30, 2003 includes a $90 million provision in selling, general and administrative expense for hip and knee implant litigation, including $45 million in the third quarter.
     Centerpulse's unaudited consolidated statement of earnings for the nine month period ended September 30, 2003 includes $90 million of acquisition expenses, comprised of: (i) $33 million investment banking fees, (ii) $7 million legal and accounting fees, (iii) $15 million break-up fee, (iv) $29 million of compensation expense related to the accelerated vesting of certain Centerpulse stock options, and (v) $6 million of other acquisition expenses.
     Centerpulse recognized a significant tax benefit for the nine month period ended September 30, 2003. Centerpulse realized $54 million as a result of electing to carry back its 2002 U.S. federal net operating loss for only 5 years versus 10 years, which resulted in more losses being carried forward to future years and less tax credits going unutilized due to the shorter carry back period. The remaining tax benefit primarily results from the operating loss at Centerpulse's U.S operations and the realization of tax benefits on non-U.S. tax losses.
 
Centerpulse amounts have been translated into U.S. dollars at a rate of CHF 1.36 = US$1.00, the average daily exchange rate for the nine months ended September 30, 2003.
U.S. GAAP and Reclassification Adjustments
     (a) Centerpulse's consolidated financial statements were prepared in accordance with IFRS, which differ in certain material respects from U.S. GAAP. Centerpulse also classified certain costs differently than Zimmer in their consolidated statement of earnings. The following schedule summarizes the necessary material adjustments to conform the Centerpulse consolidated statement of earnings for the nine months ended September 30, 2003 to U.S. GAAP and to reclassify certain amounts to Zimmer's basis of presentation.
 
 
Other Adjustments
     (b) Reflects the following adjustments
     The purpose of the depreciation expense adjustment is to recognize the additional depreciation expense on the increase in the value of acquired property, plant and equipment. The increase results from the recognition of assets at fair value as of the acquisition date. Refer to note (d) on the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheet. The depreciation adjustment was calculated by dividing the anticipated step up in value by the remaining useful life of the property, plant and equipment, estimated to be six years.
     This amortization expense adjustment eliminates amortization expense associated with historical values of Centerpulse intangible assets. A new basis is established for the value of Centerpulse intangible assets as of the acquisition date. Refer to note (e) on the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheet. Amortization of the new basis is reflected in selling, general and administrative expenses. Refer to note (c) immediately following.
     (c) Includes the following adjustment:
Reflects amortization expense related to estimated technology, trademark and customer related intangible assets of Centerpulse over periods ranging from seven to thirty years. A new basis is established for the value of Centerpulse intangible assets as of the acquisition date. Refer to note (e) on the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheet.
     (d) Reflects the elimination of $93 million of acquisition and integration costs that were expensed in the Zimmer and Centerpulse consolidated financial statements. These costs were primarily related to investment banking fees, legal and accounting fees, break-up fee and compensation expense related to the accelerated vesting of certain Centerpulse stock options.
     (e) Includes the following adjustments:
 
     Reflects the elimination of $(28) million of interest expense on existing borrowings replaced by estimated interest expense of $21 million on approximately $1,081 million in total average outstanding debt ($1,338 million assumed to be incurred at January 1, 2002 less the scheduled maturity of $257 million on the 364-day revolving credit facility) under the new Zimmer $1.75 billion senior credit facility. The $1.75 billion Zimmer credit facility contains: (i) $400 million 364-day revolving credit facility, (ii) $800 million three-year revolving credit facility and (iii) $550 million five-year term loan facility. Based on Zimmer's current investment grade rating from Standard and Poor's and from Moody's, the applicable interest rate and facility fees under the revolving facilities is LIBOR plus 87.5 basis points, and under the term loan, is LIBOR plus 112.5 basis points. Interest expense was calculated using a weighted average annual interest rate of 2.1 percent, calculated on constant average outstanding debt levels throughout the year. Interest expense also includes amortization of debt issuance costs. A 1/8 percent change in the annual interest rate would increase or decrease interest expense by approximately $1 million.
     (f) Reflects the income tax effects of adjustments based upon the statutory tax rates in effect for the nine months ended September 30, 2003.
     (g) The increase in weighted average common shares outstanding for the basic earnings per share calculations reflects the issuance of 44,538,770 shares of Zimmer common stock issued in the Exchange Offers.
 
Other transaction related costs
     The objective of the pro forma information provided herein is to provide information about the continuing impact of the Exchange Offers by showing how it might have affected historical operating results if the Exchange Offers had been consummated at the beginning of the most recent full fiscal year. As such, charges directly resulting from the transaction are necessarily excluded from the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of earnings. Zimmer expects to incur non-cash charges directly resulting from the transaction as of and within the twelve-month period succeeding the transaction, estimated as follows:
     Refer to note (k) under Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheet for further description of in-process research and development.
     The step-up of inventories to their respective fair values, as required by SFAS No. 141, results in an increase in cost of products sold as the inventory is sold to third party customers, which is expected to occur within the twelve month period succeeding the transaction.
     Retention payments and other employee related costs, costs for lease terminations, meetings, training, re-branding, integration of information technology systems, and other cash costs are anticipated in connection with the integration of Zimmer and Centerpulse. Pending final management approval of the integration plans, certain costs, estimated to amount to $140 million, are expected to be reported as acquisition and integration expense. Additional costs, estimated to amount to $60 million, are expected to be added to the Centerpulse purchase price in accordance with U.S. GAAP. In addition, the Company expects to incur an estimated $10 to $12 million associated with the ongoing informal SEC investigation of Centerpulse.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Zimmer Holdings, Inc. has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: March 31, 2004


