FILE:ZMH/ZMH-8K-20040728191544.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
     Registrant's telephone number, including area code: 574/267-6131
     Former name or former address, if changed since last report: N/A
Table of Contents
ITEM 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits
ITEM 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On July 28, 2004, Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (the "Registrant") reported its results of operations for the quarter ended June 30, 2004. The Registrant's earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99(a) and the information set forth therein is incorporated herein by reference and constitutes a part of this report.
     As previously announced, the Registrant acquired Centerpulse AG on October 2, 2003 and Implex Corp. on April 23, 2004. The earnings release attached as Exhibit 99(a) includes comparative sales information to prior year information for the Registrant and Centerpulse on a combined basis. It also includes information reflected in its statements of earnings and guidance for diluted earnings per share on an adjusted basis excluding the impact of the following which relate to the Centerpulse and Implex acquisitions: inventory step-up, acquisition and integration expenses and related income tax benefits.
     Management believes that the presentation of the combined and adjusted information allows investors to more easily compare the Registrant's performance on a period to period basis. It also aids investors in understanding the operating results of the Registrant absent the specific acquisition-related items detailed above. However, these measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, other measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
     All of the non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure in the press release.
     The Registrant is furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibits, pursuant to Item 12 of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" with the SEC or incorporated by reference into any other filing with the SEC. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, the Registrant makes no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibits.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99(a)
(WARSAW, IN) July 28, 2004  Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (NYSE and SWX:ZMH) today reported net sales of $737 million and diluted EPS of $0.47 reported and $0.58 adjusted* for the quarter ended June 30, 2004. The Company's sales and diluted earnings per share results, on a reported and adjusted* basis, exceeded both the high end of the Company's previous sales guidance of $730 million and earnings per share guidance of $0.42 reported and $0.55 adjusted*, and First Call estimates of $733 million and $0.55 adjusted*.
 
The Company's reported results reflect its acquisition of Centerpulse AG on October 2, 2003, and Implex Corp., on April 23, 2004. Reported results include acquisition and integration expenses, inventory step-up and the prior year cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle for instrumentation, as applicable.
"The marketing and financial benefits of the Centerpulse acquisition continue to exceed our expectations," said Ray Elliott, Zimmer Chairman, President and CEO. "Our earnings growth and the integration execution are a tribute to our team. We began this year with adjusted* EPS guidance of $2.04 to $2.07 and projected 2006 net synergies of $70 to $90 million. With today's communication, we will have increased our 2004 EPS guidance by more than $0.20 from the beginning of this year and raised projected 2006 pre-tax net synergies to more than $100 million."
On April 23, 2004, the Company completed its acquisition of Implex Corp., a privately held New Jersey company. In 2000, Zimmer entered into an exclusive, worldwide strategic alliance for commercialization of Implex's innovative Hedrocel biomaterial, which Zimmer marketed as . Implex, which is now referred to as Zimmer , Inc., operates as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. Zimmer has more than a dozen development projects involving in the reconstructive, trauma and spinal product areas. sales for 2005 for all product categories are expected to exceed $100 million.
Trabecular Metal Technology
Trabecular Metal Technology
Trabecular Metal Technology
Trabecular Metal Technology
"During the quarter, we continued to expand our leadership in Procedures and Technologies with a record 125 surgeons trained in the month of June alone on Zimmer's Hip Procedure and the Knee Procedure," said Elliott. "We are particularly pleased with our U.S. hip sales growth of 21%. In our case, the message is clear: leadership brings in new business. Zimmer Procedures accounted for nearly 48% of our U.S. hip sales this quarter and the trend is upward. Surgeon demand for surgical skills training is
Minimally Invasive Solutions (MIS)
MIS 2-Incision
MIS QS Quad-Sparing
MIS
MIS
MIS
 
outstripping our capacity, with more than 600 surgeons in the U.S. alone awaiting Zimmer's surgeon-to-surgeon visits and consultations."
The Company is providing a comparison of sales to prior year on a combined* basis in the tables that follow, which includes sales of Centerpulse for the second quarter and the first six months of 2003.
 
Net earnings for the quarter were $116 million on a reported basis, and $144 million adjusted*, an increase of 60% over the prior year. Diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.47 reported, and $0.58 adjusted*, an increase of 29% over the prior year.
 
Net earnings for the six months were $214 million on a reported basis, and $281 million adjusted*, an increase of 65% over the prior year. Diluted earnings per share for the six months were $0.87 reported, and $1.14 adjusted*, an increase of 33% over the prior year.
Guidance
The Company's second quarter sales guidance of $725 to $730 million included in the first quarter results press release, assumed a foreign exchange growth contribution of $29 million. Due to the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against most currencies throughout the second quarter, the foreign exchange contribution to sales growth was only $21 million. With an $8 million reduced contribution from foreign exchange, our reported sales of $737 million for the second quarter represented an even greater contribution from the Company's underlying businesses.
As a result of the strong quarter and increased confidence in both short- and long-term integration synergies, the Company announced that it is increasing its previous sales and earnings guidance for the full year 2004. Several factors have been incorporated into the Company's sales and earnings expectations. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations contributed 7% to the Company's sales growth in the first quarter, but declined to a 3% contribution in the second quarter. If foreign currency exchange rates remain at June 30, 2004 levels, the Company expects the favorable foreign currency effect on the first six months' sales growth will lessen throughout the balance of this year. Due to the weakening of the U.S. dollar throughout all of 2003, the favorable effect of foreign currency movement on sales growth will only be 2% in the third quarter and will result in a slightly negative contribution to sales growth in the fourth quarter. This diminishing contribution to sales growth from foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations is expected to be offset by a strengthening of the Company's underlying sales growth. The $50 million of projected 2004 sales dis-synergies related to the Centerpulse integration have been materializing throughout the first six months, and as the Company nears completion of its non-U.S. distributor integration plans, are anticipated to be fully realized by the end of this year.
Full year sales for 2004 are projected to be in a range of $2,940 to $2,965 million, a net increase of approximately $15 million over the range in the Company's previous guidance. When considering the $40 million reduced contribution to the Company's full year sales growth resulting from the strengthening of the U.S. dollar against most foreign currencies during the second quarter, this really represents a $55 million guidance increase from the Company's underlying businesses. Reported diluted earnings per share for 2004 are expected to be in the range of $1.86 to $1.90, reflecting estimated acquisition and integration expenses of $65 million and inventory step-up of $35 million, net of tax. Adjusted* diluted earnings per share are projected to be in a range of $2.26 to $2.30, an increase of $0.06 over previous guidance and an increase of more than $0.20 from the beginning of the year.
 
The Company believes First Call estimates for earnings are high in the third quarter, but low for the fourth quarter, with the net effect being an increase in guidance for the second half of the year. Third and fourth quarter sales for 2004 are expected to be in a range of $685 to $695 million and $775 to $790 million, respectively. Reported diluted earnings per share for the third quarter are expected to be in a range of $0.43 to $0.45, reflecting estimated acquisition and integration expenses of $18 million, inventory step-up of $3 million, net of tax, and $0.01 of dilution per share from the Implex acquisition, resulting in adjusted* diluted earnings per share in a range of $0.51 to $0.53, slightly below current First Call estimates. Reported diluted earnings per share for the fourth quarter are expected to be in the range of $0.56 to $0.58, reflecting estimated acquisition and integration expenses of $11 million and inventory step-up of $2 million, net of tax, and adjusted* diluted earnings per share in a range of $0.61 to $0.63, above current First Call estimates.
The Company will conduct its second quarter sales and earnings conference call, which will be broadcast live over the Internet, on Thursday, July 29, 2004, at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The live audio webcast of Zimmer's conference call will be accessible through the Zimmer website at . The webcast will be archived for future replay. Individuals who wish to dial into the conference call may do so at (800) 406-1106. International callers should dial (706) 634-7075. A digital recording will be available two hours after the completion of the conference from July 29, 2004 to August 4, 2004. To access the recording, US/Canada callers should dial (800) 642-1687, or for International callers, dial (706) 645-9291, and enter the Conference ID, 8534247. A copy of this press release and any other financial and statistical information about the periods to be presented in the conference call will be accessible through the Zimmer website at .
Conference Call
investor.zimmer.com
investor.zimmer.com
Founded in 1927 and headquartered in Warsaw, Indiana, Zimmer is the worldwide #1 pure-play orthopaedic leader in the design, development, manufacture and marketing of
About the Company
 
reconstructive and spinal implants, trauma and related orthopaedic surgical products. In October, 2003, the Company finalized its acquisition of Centerpulse AG, a Switzerland-based orthopaedics company and the leader in the European reconstructive market. The new Zimmer has operations in more than 24 countries around the world and sells products in more than 80 countries. As a result of the acquisition of Centerpulse, reported 2003 sales were $1.9 billion. Full-year 2003 pro forma worldwide sales of Zimmer and Centerpulse were approximately $2.6 billion. The new Zimmer is supported by the efforts of more than 6,500 employees.
*Note on Non-GAAP Financial Measures
As used in this press release, the term sales includes Centerpulse for the first and second quarters of 2003 in order to provide more meaningful year-to-year comparisons. The term refers to operating performance measures that exclude acquisition and integration expenses, inventory step-up and the cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle for instruments. Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure are included in this press release.
"combined"
"adjusted"
Zimmer Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the orthopaedics industry, management's beliefs and assumptions made by management. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as "may," "will," "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "targets," "forecasts," and "seeks" or the negative of such terms or other variations on such terms or comparable terminology. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our ability to successfully integrate Centerpulse AG and Implex Corp., the outcome of the pending informal SEC investigation of Centerpulse accounting, price and product competition, rapid technological development, demographic changes, dependence on new product development, the mix of our products and services, supply and prices of raw materials and products, customer demand for our products and services, control of costs and expenses, our ability to form and implement alliances, international growth,
 
governmental laws and regulations affecting our U.S. and international businesses, including tax obligations and risks, product liability and intellectual property litigation losses, reimbursement levels from third-party payors, general industry and market conditions and growth rates and general domestic and international economic conditions including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations. For a further list and description of such risks and uncertainties, see the disclosure materials filed by Zimmer with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Zimmer disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Readers of this document are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, since, while we believe the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


