FILE:ZMH/ZMH-8K-20040915143130.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Item 3.03. Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders.
     On September 10, 2004, the Board of Directors of Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (the "Company") approved an amendment to the Rights Agreement, dated as of July 30, 2001, as amended, between the Company and Mellon Investor Services LLC, as Rights Agent (the "Rights Agreement"). The terms of the amendment are set forth in the attached Amendment No. 2 to the Rights Agreement (the "Amendment"), dated as of September 13, 2004. The Amendment provides that the Rights (as defined in the Rights Agreement) will expire on September 16, 2004, more than six years earlier than the date initially specified in the Rights Agreement. The Company issued a press release in connection with the Amendment. A copy of the Amendment is attached hereto as Exhibit 4.1 and is incorporated herein by reference, and a copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Zimmer Holdings, Inc. has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: September 15, 2004

 
Exhibit 4.1
     THIS AMENDMENT NO. 2 TO THE RIGHTS AGREEMENT, dated as of September 13, 2004, is entered into between Zimmer Holdings, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "COMPANY"), and Mellon Investor Services LLC, a New Jersey limited liability company, as Rights Agent (the "RIGHTS AGENT").
     WHEREAS, the Company and the Rights Agent entered into a Rights Agreement (the "RIGHTS AGREEMENT"), dated as of July 30, 2001, as amended on June 15, 2002; and
     WHEREAS, the Company, by resolution adopted by its Board of Directors, has determined that it is desirable and in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders to amend the Rights Agreement as set forth herein.
     NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual agreements set forth herein, the parties hereby agree as follows:
     1. SECTION 7(a) of the Rights Agreement is hereby amended to substitute the following in place of clause (i) in its entirety:
"(i) at the Close of Business on September 16, 2004 (the Close of Business on such date being the "EXPIRATION DATE"),"
     2. The Rights Agreement shall not otherwise be supplemented or amended by virtue of this Amendment No. 2 to the Rights Agreement, but shall remain in full force and effect.
     3. Capitalized terms used without definition in this Amendment No. 2 to the Rights Agreement shall be used as defined in the Rights Agreement.
     4. This Amendment No. 2 to the Rights Agreement shall be deemed to be a contract made under the laws of the State of Delaware and for all purposes shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of such State applicable to contracts to be made and performed entirely within such State; provided, however, that all provisions regarding the rights, duties and obligations of the Rights Agent shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New York applicable to contracts made and to be performed entirely within such State.
     5. This Amendment No. 2 to the Rights Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and each of such counterparts shall for all purposes be deemed to be an original, and all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
 
     6. All references to the Rights Agreement shall, from and after the execution of this Amendment No. 2 to the Rights Agreement, be deemed to be references to the Rights Agreement as amended hereby.
     7. Exhibits B and C to the Rights Agreement shall be deemed amended in a manner consistent with this Amendment No. 2 to the Rights Agreement.
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Amendment No. 2 to the Rights Agreement to be duly executed as of the date written above.

 
Exhibit 99.1
(WARSAW, IN) SEPTEMBER 15, 2004  Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (NYSE and SWX: ZMH) announced today that its Board of Directors has approved an amendment to the Company's stockholder rights plan. The amendment provides that the rights plan will expire on September 16, 2004. Prior to this amendment, the rights plan had been scheduled to expire in July 2011.
The Company also announced today that its Board of Directors has approved a new policy on stockholder rights plans. The policy provides that the Board shall seek stockholder approval prior to adopting or extending any stockholder rights plan, unless, under the circumstances then existing, the Board in exercising its fiduciary responsibilities deems it to be in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders to adopt a rights plan without delay. If a rights plan is adopted without prior stockholder approval, the plan must provide that it shall expire unless ratified by stockholders within one year of the plan's adoption.
In addition, the Board of Directors has resolved to submit the selection of the Company's independent auditors to the Company's stockholders for their ratification at each future annual meeting of the Company's stockholders. If a majority of the Company's stockholders voting on the matter do not ratify the selection of the Company's independent auditors, the Company's Audit Committee will reconsider its choice of independent auditors taking into consideration the views of the stockholders and may, but will not be required to, appoint different independent auditors.
 
Commenting on the Board's actions, Ray Elliott, Zimmer's Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, said, "These actions directly reflect the Board's responsiveness to the wishes of our stockholders." Stockholder proposals presented at Zimmer's 2004 annual meeting, which requested that Zimmer's Board submit any rights plan to a stockholder vote as a separate ballot item as soon as practical and that Zimmer's Board and its Audit Committee submit the selection of Zimmer's independent auditors to Zimmer's stockholders for their ratification at the Company's annual meeting, received the support of a majority of Zimmer's stockholders.
Founded in 1927 and headquartered in Warsaw, Indiana, Zimmer is the worldwide #1 pure-play orthopaedic leader in the design, development, manufacture and marketing of reconstructive and spinal implants, trauma and related orthopaedic surgical products. In October, 2003, the company finalized its acquisition of Centerpulse AG, a Switzerland-based orthopaedics company and the leader in the European reconstructive market. The new Zimmer has operations in more than 24 countries around the world and sells products in more than 80 countries. As a result of the acquisition of Centerpulse, reported 2003 sales were $1.9 billion. Full-year 2003 pro forma worldwide sales of Zimmer and Centerpulse were approximately $2.6 billion. The new Zimmer is supported by the efforts of more than 6,500 employees.
About the Company


