FILE:ZMH/ZMH-8K-20040115163555.txt.gz
EVENTS:		Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: 
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Table of Contents
Registrant's telephone number, including area code: 574/267-6131
Former name or former address, if changed since last report: N/A
Table of Contents
ITEM 7. Financial Statements, Pro Forma Financial Information and Exhibits
ITEM 12. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On January 15, 2004, Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (the "Registrant") issued a press release announcing that it expects its fourth quarter 2003 performance to exceed expectations. The Registrant's press release is attached as Exhibit 99(a) and the information set forth therein is incorporated herein by reference and constitutes a part of this report.
     The press release furnished herewith uses the non-GAAP financial measure of earnings per share ("EPS"), excluding the effect of certain items. The Registrant's non-GAAP EPS financial measure is forward-looking and the specific items that are excluded from, and result in, the Registrant's non-GAAP EPS financial measure are identified as such in the press release. The Registrant believes that this non-GAAP EPS financial measure presented with these adjustments best reflect the Registrant's ongoing performance and business operations during the periods presented and are more useful to investors for comparative purposes. In addition, the Registrant uses the non-GAAP EPS financial measure as a guide in its budgeting and long-range planning processes.
     The presentation of this non-GAAP EPS financial measure is intended to supplement investors' understanding of the Registrant's operating performance. This non-GAAP EPS financial measure is not comparable, nor is it intended to replace, EPS calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP. This non-GAAP financial measure may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
     The Registrant's GAAP EPS for the periods presented is not currently determinable because specific items, including acquisition and integration costs relating to the Registrant's recent acquisition of Centerpulse AG and in-process R&D write-offs and inventory step-up, which were excluded in the non-GAAP EPS financial measure described above, are not expected to be finalized until the Registrant announces its quarter and full-year results in February. This information will be important in determining GAAP EPS. As a result, a reconciliation of the estimated non-GAAP EPS financial measure and GAAP EPS cannot be performed without unreasonable effort. The Registrant will provide GAAP EPS and a reconciliation to the actual non-GAAP EPS financial measure in connection with its press release detailing its quarter and full-year results which will be made available on February 9, 2004, after the close of the New York Stock Exchange.
     The Registrant is furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to Item 12 of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" with the SEC or incorporated by reference into any other filing with the SEC. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, the Registrant makes no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
Table of Contents
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99(a)
 
     WARSAW, IND.  January 15, 2004Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (NYSE and SWX: ZMH) announced today that it expects its fourth quarter 2003 performance to exceed First Call consensus. The company said it expects revenue for the quarter of approximately $700 million, exceeding consensus of $666 million, and earnings per share (excluding acquisition and integration costs, in-process R&D write-offs and inventory step-up) for the quarter to exceed consensus of $0.44 per share by at least $.04 per share.
     A news release detailing the quarter and full-year results will be made available on Monday, February 9, 2004, after the close of the New York Stock Exchange. The company will conduct its fourth quarter and full-year 2003 sales and earnings conference call, which will be broadcast live over the Internet, on Tuesday, February 10, 2004, at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. During the call, the company will update its guidance for 2004. The company projects an additional $0.05 to $0.08 in 2004 earnings per share (excluding acquisition and integration costs and inventory step-up) over the First Call consensus of $1.99 per share.
     The live audio webcast of Zimmer's conference call will be accessible through the Zimmer website at www.zimmer.com (Investor Relations section). The webcast will be archived for future replay. Individuals who wish to dial into the conference call may do so at (800) 406-1106. International callers should dial (706) 634-7075. A digital recording will be available two hours after the completion of the conference from February 10, 2004 to February 24, 2004. To access the recording, US/Canada callers should dial (800) 642-1687, or for International callers, dial (706) 645-9291, and enter the Conference ID, 4998295.
 
About the Company
Founded in 1927 and headquartered in Warsaw, Indiana, Zimmer is the worldwide #1 pure-play orthopaedic leader in the design, development, manufacture and marketing of reconstructive and spinal implants, trauma and related orthopaedic surgical products. In October, 2003, the company finalized its acquisition of Centerpulse AG, a Switzerland-based orthopaedics company and the leader in the European reconstructive market. The new Zimmer has operations in more than 24 countries around the world and sells products in more than 80 countries. For the year 2002, the pro forma worldwide combined revenues of Zimmer and Centerpulse were approximately $2.2 billion. On a combined basis, the new Zimmer is supported by the efforts of nearly 7,000 employees.
Non-GAAP Financial Measures
This press release contains certain non-GAAP financial measures. Information regarding such non-GAAP financial measures has been furnished in a Current Report on
Form 8-K
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and may be accessed from the Zimmer website.
Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the orthopaedics industry, management's beliefs and assumptions made by management. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as "may," "will," "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "targets," "forecasts," and "seeks" or the negative of such terms or other variations on such terms or comparable terminology. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our ability to successfully integrate Centerpulse AG, price and product competition, rapid technological development, demographic changes, dependence on new product development, the mix of our products and services, supply and prices of raw materials
 
and products, customer demand for our products and services, control of costs and expenses, our ability to form and implement alliances, international growth, U.S. and foreign government regulation, product liability and intellectual property litigation losses, reimbursement levels from third-party payors, general industry and market conditions and growth rates and general domestic and international economic conditions including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations. For a further list and description of such risks and uncertainties, see the disclosure materials filed by Zimmer with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Zimmer disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Readers of this document are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, since, while we believe the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.


