FILE:ZMH/ZMH-8K-20041025172052.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
                Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)     
October 25, 2004                                                                                               
                Registrant's telephone number, including area code     
                                                                                         
(574) 267-6131
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02     RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
     On October 25, 2004, Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (the "Registrant") reported its results of operations for the quarter ended September 30, 2004. The Registrant's earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and the information set forth therein is incorporated herein by reference and constitutes a part of this report.
     As previously announced, the Registrant acquired Centerpulse AG on October 2, 2003 and Implex Corp. on April 23, 2004. The earnings release attached as Exhibit 99.1 includes comparative sales information to prior year information for the Registrant and Centerpulse on a combined basis. It also includes information reflected in its statements of earnings and guidance for diluted earnings per share on an adjusted basis excluding the impact of the following which relate to the Centerpulse and Implex acquisitions: inventory step-up, acquisition and integration expenses and related income tax benefits.
     Management believes that the presentation of the combined and adjusted information allows investors to more easily compare the Registrant's performance on a period to period basis. It also aids investors in understanding the operating results of the Registrant absent the specific acquisition-related items detailed above . However, these measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, other measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
     All of the non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure in the press release.
     The Registrant is furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibits, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" with the SEC or incorporated by reference into any other filing with the SEC. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, the Registrant makes no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibits.
ITEM 9.01     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
                                                                                                             Dated: October 25, 2004

 
Exhibit 99.1
Contacts:
(WARSAW, IN) October 25, 2004  Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (NYSE and SWX:ZMH) today reported net sales of $700 million and diluted EPS of $0.52 reported and $0.56 adjusted* for the quarter ended September 30, 2004. The Company's sales and diluted earnings per share results, on a reported and adjusted* basis, exceeded the high end of the Company's previous sales and adjusted earnings per share guidance and First Call estimates of $692 million and $0.53 adjusted*, respectively.
 
The Company's reported results reflect its acquisition of Centerpulse AG on October 2, 2003, and Implex Corp., on April 23, 2004. Reported results include acquisition and integration expenses, inventory step-up and the prior year cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle for instrumentation, as applicable.
"Our record gross profit margin of 77% adjusted* and earnings per share growth of 30% adjusted* drove operating cash flow to a record $206 million in the quarter," said Ray Elliott, Zimmer Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer. "In the bellwether U.S. reconstructive market, we believe Zimmer outpaced the market during the third quarter by at least two percentage points of growth in knees and four percentage points of growth in hips."
On October 15, 2004, Zimmer announced that it had entered into a satisfactory financial agreement with CeramTec AG of Germany. The Company believes that, pending regulatory approvals, it will be able to enter the U.S. ceramic-on-ceramic hip replacement market in the second half of 2005. With the addition of a proven ceramic-on-ceramic option in the U.S., Zimmer will be able to offer surgeons a complete offering of alternate bearing surface options, including the successful  Highly Crosslinked Polyethylene, the  Metal-on-Metal Tribological Solution and the  AB Ceramic-on-Ceramic System. Currently, no company is able to offer all three of these alternate bearing surface options.
Longevity
Metasul
Trilogy
Milestones in Zimmer's () Technologies and Procedures program continue to accelerate. Last week, the Company launched its Computer-Assisted Surgery solution for the 2 Hip Replacement Procedure, with the initial procedure performed by Dr. Mark Hartzband at the Hackensack University Medical Center in New Jersey. On a related note, according to a recent report delivered at Harvard, in excess of $1 billion could be saved by the U.S. health care system if Zimmer's and "mini" hip procedures were utilized in an estimated 57% of all hip replacement surgeries. At the Zimmer Institutes, during the
Minimally Invasive Solutions
MIS
MIS
-Incision
MIS
MIS 2-Incision
 
quarter the Company completed its 100th procedure training course since inception and trained its 1,000th surgeon in techniques this year.
MIS 2-Incision
MIS
The Company is providing a comparison of sales to prior year on a combined* basis in the tables that follow, which includes sales of Centerpulse for the third quarter and the first nine months of 2003.
Net earnings for the quarter were $128 million on a reported basis, and $140 million adjusted*, an increase of 62% adjusted* over the prior year. Diluted earnings per share
 
for the quarter were $0.52 reported, and $0.56 adjusted*, an increase of 30% adjusted* over the prior year.
Net earnings for the nine months were $342 million on a reported basis, and $421 million adjusted*, an increase of 64% adjusted* over the prior year. Diluted earnings per share for the nine months were $1.38 reported, and $1.70 adjusted*, an increase of 32% adjusted* over the prior year.
 
Guidance
The Company is modifying its guidance for the fourth quarter, and is including guidance for 2005. Fourth quarter sales are expected to be within a range of $775 million to $780 million, representing growth of approximately 10% to 11% over the fourth quarter of 2003. This represents a reduction from the top end of the Company's previous guidance which included a range of $775 million to $790 million. Sales expectations are in line with the original post-Centerpulse acquisition sales growth expectations for the first one to two years communicated in October 2003. When developing its fourth quarter sales guidance, at the end of the second quarter, the Company utilized an incorrect fourth quarter assumption when determining the potential effect of foreign currency, resulting in a $9 million overstatement of constant currency sales expectations for the fourth quarter. The conversion of additional dealer relationships in parts of Scandinavia and Southeast Asia to a direct sales model that had originally been forecasted for the third quarter, were still being negotiated at the end of the quarter. Consequently, the $5 million in sales returns associated with these distributor changes contributed favorably to the Company's third quarter sales performance and is expected to shift into the fourth quarter. The Company's two smallest product categories, Spine and Trauma, are expected to continue growing at rates below their respective markets in the short term.
"As a result of improved gross profit and operating profit margins, we are increasing our earnings per share estimates for the fourth quarter to a range of $0.62 to $0.64 adjusted*," said Sam Leno, Zimmer Chief Financial Officer. "This represents an increase over prior year of approximately 25% adjusted* for the fourth quarter and continues to demonstrate our ability to gain positive leverage from every dollar of sales growth."
For the full year 2005, the Company estimates sales in the range of $3.325 billion to $3.345 billion, an increase of approximately 13% over 2004. The Company also estimates 2005 diluted earnings per share in a range of $2.68 to $2.73 reported, and $2.80 to $2.85 adjusted*. The 2005 guidance reaffirms the Company's expectations for the combination of Zimmer and Centerpulse to deliver a minimum of 10% sales growth in 2005, a 20% to 25% diluted earnings per share adjusted* growth in 2005, and the
 
potential to exceed a 25% diluted earnings per share adjusted* growth in 2006. Earnings per share guidance for 2005 and 2006 excludes the impact of any potential changes in U.S. GAAP related to accounting for equity-based compensation.
Conference Call
The Company will conduct its third quarter sales and earnings conference call, which will be broadcast live over the Internet, on Tuesday, October 26, 2004, at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The live audio webcast of Zimmer's conference call will be accessible through the Zimmer website at http://investor.zimmer.com. The webcast will be archived for future replay. Individuals who wish to dial into the conference call may do so at (800) 406-1106. International callers should dial (706) 634-7075. A digital recording will be available two hours after the completion of the conference from October 26, 2004 to October 29, 2004. To access the recording, U.S./Canada callers should dial (800) 642-1687, or for International callers, dial (706) 645-9291, and enter the Conference ID, 1046523. A copy of this press release and any other financial and statistical information about the periods to be presented in the conference call will be accessible through the Zimmer website at http://investor.zimmer.com.
About the Company
Founded in 1927 and headquartered in Warsaw, Indiana, Zimmer is the worldwide #1 pure-play orthopaedic leader in the design, development, manufacture and marketing of reconstructive and spinal implants, trauma and related orthopaedic surgical products. In October 2003, the Company finalized its acquisition of Centerpulse AG, a Switzerland-based orthopaedics company and the leader in the European reconstructive market. The new Zimmer has operations in more than 24 countries around the world and sells products in more than 80 countries. As a result of the acquisition of Centerpulse, reported 2003 sales were $1.9 billion. Full-year 2003 pro forma worldwide sales of Zimmer and Centerpulse were approximately $2.6 billion. The new Zimmer is supported by the efforts of more than 6,500 employees.
 
*Note on Non-GAAP Financial Measures
As used in this press release, the term sales includes Centerpulse for the first, second and third quarters of 2003 in order to provide more meaningful year-to-year comparisons. The term refers to operating performance measures that exclude acquisition and integration expenses, inventory step-up and the cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle for instruments. Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure are included in this press release.
"combined"
"adjusted"
Zimmer Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the orthopaedics industry, management's beliefs and assumptions made by management. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as "may," "will," "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "targets," "forecasts," and "seeks" or the negative of such terms or other variations on such terms or comparable terminology. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our ability to successfully integrate Centerpulse AG and Implex Corp., the outcome of the pending informal SEC investigation of Centerpulse accounting, price and product competition, rapid technological development, demographic changes, dependence on new product development, the mix of our products and services, supply and prices of raw materials and products, customer demand for our products and services, control of costs and expenses, our ability to form and implement alliances, international growth, governmental laws and regulations affecting our U.S. and international businesses, including tax obligations and risks, product liability and intellectual property litigation losses, reimbursement levels from third-party payors, general industry and market conditions and growth rates and general domestic and international economic conditions including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations. For a further list and description of such risks and uncertainties, see the disclosure materials filed by Zimmer with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Zimmer disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Readers of this document are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, since, while we believe the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


