FILE:ZMH/ZMH-8K-20050131190145.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02     RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
     On January 31, 2005, Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (the "Registrant") reported its results of operations for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2004. The Registrant's earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and the information set forth therein is incorporated herein by reference and constitutes a part of this report.
     As previously announced, the Registrant acquired Centerpulse AG on October 2, 2003 and Implex Corp. on April 23, 2004. The earnings release attached as Exhibit 99.1 includes comparative sales information to prior year information for the Registrant and Centerpulse on a combined basis. It also includes information reflected in its statements of earnings and guidance for diluted earnings per share on an adjusted basis excluding the impact of factors described in the earnings release which relate to the Centerpulse and Implex acquisitions. The Registrant also presents the non-GAAP financial measure of "net debt," defined as total debt less cash on hand.
     Management believes that the presentation of the combined and adjusted information allows investors to more easily compare the Registrant's performance on a period to period basis. It also aids investors in understanding the operating results of the Registrant absent the specific acquisition-related items detailed above. Net debt is considered important to understanding the Registrant's capital resources and liquidity. However, these measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, other measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
     All of the non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure in the press release.
     The Registrant is furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibits, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" with the SEC or incorporated by reference into any other filing with the SEC. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, the Registrant makes no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibits.
ITEM 9.01     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
Contacts:
 
(WARSAW, IN) January 31, 2005  Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (NYSE and SWX: ZMH) today reported net sales and earnings for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2004. For the fourth quarter, the Company reported net sales of $801 million and diluted earnings per share of $0.81 and $0.71 adjusted*. Full year net sales were $2.98 billion and diluted earnings per share were $2.19 reported and $2.41 adjusted*. The Company's fourth quarter sales and diluted earnings per share results adjusted* exceeded the high end of the Company's guidance and First Call estimates of $783 million and $0.64, respectively.
The Company's reported results reflect its acquisitions of Centerpulse AG on October 2, 2003, and Implex Corp. on April 23, 2004. Reported results include in-process R&D write-offs, acquisition and integration expenses, inventory step-up, a tax benefit from decreased deferred taxes of acquired Centerpulse operations that resulted from a reduction in the ongoing Swiss tax rate, and the prior year cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle for instrumentation, as applicable.
"Zimmer's winning performance continues as evidenced by our strong sales, margins and cash flow," said Ray Elliott, Zimmer Chairman, President and CEO. "During 2004, we invested heavily in the expansion of landscape-changing innovations such as Procedures and Technologies and Technology. We delivered more than 40 major development projects to the market. We generated more than $540 million in new product sales. The future should be equally rich with a 146 project pipeline, two-thirds of which is devoted to innovative technology and advanced platforms."
Minimally Invasive Solutions (MIS)
Trabecular Metal
Zimmer has continued to focus on Procedures and Technologies. During the year, the Company trained more than 1,400 surgeons; added two new Zimmer Institutes; documented potentially improved hospital profitability with almost 1,000 patients; launched a 13 city, low-cost DTC campaign capitalizing on more than 100,000 visits to the Company's "Find-a-Doc" web-based surgeon locator; and supported 17 different papers. In addition, Zimmer placed more than 2,000 Knee Replacement and Mini-Knee Replacement instrument sets in the fieldby management estimates, more than the Company's top three competitors combined.
Minimally Invasive Solutions
MIS
MIS
MIS Quad-Sparing
 
"As we enter 2005, a key focus continues to be the integration of Centerpulse and Implex, including the realization of both targeted synergies and identified opportunities," said Elliott. "The year 2004 was a great beginningwe are ahead of schedule having already accomplished more than 2,000 of the total 3,364 integration milestones and raised the estimated, sustainable cost synergies to slightly over $100 million annually from our original estimates of $70 to $90 million."
The following tables provide a comparison of sales results for the fourth quarter and full year. Because the Centerpulse acquisition closed on October 2, 2003, Centerpulse sales were included in Zimmer's fourth quarter 2003 results and there is no distinction made between reported and combined* in the table for the fourth quarter. The full-year comparison is on a combined* basis because Centerpulse was an independent company during the first three quarters of 2003.
 
Net earnings for the quarter were $200 million on a reported basis, and were $176 million adjusted*, an increase of 42% adjusted* over the prior year. Diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.81 reported and were $0.71 adjusted*, an increase of 39% adjusted* over the prior year.
 
** Effect of changes in foreign exchange rates on growth *** Prior year sales were minimal for Zimmer standalone
Net earnings for the year were $542 million on a reported basis, and were $598 million adjusted*, an increase of 57% adjusted* over the prior year. Diluted earnings per share for the year were $2.19 reported and were $2.41 adjusted*, an increase of 34% adjusted* over the prior year.
 
The following guidance falls within the Company's previous expectations for the combination of Zimmer and Centerpulse to deliver a minimum of 10% sales growth in 2005, a 20% to 25% diluted earnings per share adjusted* growth in 2005, and the potential to exceed a 25% diluted earnings per share adjusted* growth in 2006. Earnings per share guidance for 2005 and 2006 excludes the impact of changes in U.S. GAAP related to accounting for equity-based compensation. Many factors are incorporated into the Company's guidance. The factors discussed below are not intended to be an exhaustive list of the factors considered.
Guidance
As a result of potential foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations throughout 2005, the negative pricing effects of the changing German reimbursement system, and the second quarter 2004 price decreases in Japan, the Company is maintaining its previous full year 2005 sales guidance to be in a range of $3,325 million and $3,345 million. This represents sales growth of approximately 12.0% over full year 2004. Considering the effects of anticipated new product introductions throughout 2005, sales growth for the last six months of 2005 should be slightly above this annual growth range, and sales for the first six months should be slightly below this range. Additionally, the first quarter of 2005 contains two fewer billing days than the same period in 2004, while the second quarter contains one additional billing day. Consequently, sales growth in the first quarter 2005 should be approximately 9.0% reported (representing 12% growth on a per billing day basis), while sales growth in the second quarter should be approximately 15.0% reported (representing 13% growth on a per billing day basis).
With the Company's improved gross profit and operating profit margins reported in the fourth quarter of 2004, it is increasing its previous full year adjusted* earnings per share estimates for 2005 by $0.06 to a range of $2.89 to $2.91, an increase over prior year of approximately 21% adjusted*. The Company expects reported earnings per share in the first half of 2005 to be in a range of $1.32 to $1.33, and adjusted* earnings per share to be in a range of $1.40 to $1.41, with approximately $0.66 to $0.67 in the first quarter and approximately $0.74 in the second quarter.
 
The Company also expects reported earnings per share in the second half of 2005 to be in a range of $1.44 to $1.45, and adjusted* earnings per share in a range of $1.49 to $1.50.
Conference Call
The Company will conduct its fourth quarter and full-year 2004 investor conference call on Tuesday, February 1, 2005, at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The live audio webcast can be accessed live via Zimmer's Investor Relations website at http://investor.zimmer.com. It will be archived for replay following the conference. Individuals who wish to dial into the conference call may do so at (800) 406-1106. International callers should dial (706) 634-7075. A digital recording will be available two hours after the completion of the conference call from February 1, 2005 to February 4, 2005. To access the recording, US/Canada callers should dial (800) 642-1687, or for International callers, dial (706) 645-9291, and enter the Conference ID, 3063291. A copy of this press release and other financial and statistical information about the periods to be presented in the conference call will be accessible through the Zimmer website at http://investor.zimmer.com.
Zimmer 2005 Analyst Meeting at AAOS
Zimmer had previously announced that it will conduct a meeting for investment analysts on February 24, 2005, during the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons meeting. The meeting will be held at the Renaissance Mayflower Hotel in Washington, D.C., in the State Room, with registration to start at 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time. The investment analyst meeting will be hosted by Ray Elliott and Sam Leno, Executive Vice President, Corporate Finance and Operations and Chief Financial Officer, and will feature a presentation and question and answer period, which will also be available as a live webcast at http://investor.zimmer.com. To avoid any delay in starting the meeting on time, investment analysts are encouraged to pre-register for the meeting by contacting Michele Picillo in advance of the meeting at 574-372-4474 or by e-mail at michele.picillo@zimmer.com.
 
About the Company
Founded in 1927 and headquartered in Warsaw, Indiana, Zimmer is the worldwide #1 pure-play orthopaedic leader in designing, developing, manufacturing and marketing reconstructive and spinal implants, trauma and related orthopaedic surgical products. In October 2003, the Company finalized its acquisition of Centerpulse AG, a Switzerland-based orthopaedics company and the leader in the European reconstructive market. Zimmer has operations in more than 24 countries around the world and sells products in more than 100 countries. Zimmer's 2004 sales were approximately $3 billion. The Company is supported by the efforts of more than 6,500 employees worldwide.
*Note on Non-GAAP Financial Measures
As used in this press release, the term sales includes Centerpulse for the first, second and third quarters of 2003 in order to provide more meaningful year-to-year comparisons. The term refers to operating performance measures that exclude in-process R&D write-offs, acquisition and integration expenses, inventory step-up, a tax benefit from decreased deferred taxes of acquired Centerpulse operations that resulted from a reduction in the ongoing Swiss tax rate, and the cumulative effect of the change in accounting principle for instruments. The term refers to short-term and long-term debt obligations minus the Company's cash and equivalents and restricted cash. Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure are included in this press release.
"combined"
"adjusted"
"net debt"
Zimmer Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the orthopaedics industry, management's beliefs and assumptions made by management. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as "may," "will," "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "targets," "forecasts," and "seeks" or the negative of such terms or other variations on such terms or comparable terminology. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our ability to successfully integrate Centerpulse AG and Implex Corp., the outcome of the pending informal SEC investigation of Centerpulse accounting, price and product
 
competition, rapid technological development, demographic changes, dependence on new product development, the mix of our products and services, supply and prices of raw materials and products, customer demand for our products and services, control of costs and expenses, our ability to form and implement alliances, international growth, governmental laws and regulations affecting our U.S. and international businesses, including tax obligations and risks, product liability and intellectual property litigation losses, reimbursement levels from third-party payors, general industry and market conditions and growth rates and general domestic and international economic conditions including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations. For a further list and description of such risks and uncertainties, see the disclosure materials filed by Zimmer with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Zimmer disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Readers of this document are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, since, while we believe the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


