FILE:ZMH/ZMH-8K-20050425182640.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02      RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
     On April 25, 2005, Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (the "Registrant") reported its results of operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2005. The Registrant's earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and the information set forth therein is incorporated herein by reference and constitutes a part of this report.
     As previously announced, the Registrant acquired Centerpulse AG on October 2, 2003 and Implex Corp. on April 23, 2004. The earnings release attached as Exhibit 99.1 includes the operating performance measures of adjusted net earnings, adjusted diluted EPS and projected diluted EPS which exclude acquisition and integration expenses and inventory step-up. It also includes other non-GAAP financial measures including net margin, operating margin, gross margin and net debt.
     Management believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures allows investors to better understand the operating results of the Registrant. However, these measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, other measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
     All of the non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure in the press release.
     The Registrant is furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibits, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" with the SEC or incorporated by reference into any other filing with the SEC. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, the Registrant makes no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibits.
ITEM 9.01      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
     (c)      Exhibits
     99.1   Press Release, dated April 25, 2005, issued by the Registrant.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
(WARSAW, IN) April 25, 2005  Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (NYSE and SWX: ZMH) today reported financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2005. For the quarter, the Company announced net sales of $829 million and diluted earnings per share of $0.70 reported and $0.75 adjusted*, exceeding the high end of the Company's guidance and First Call estimates of $812 million and $0.67 adjusted*, respectively. Reported results include acquisition and integration expenses and inventory step-up, as applicable.
"Zimmer is off to a good start in 2005, powered by the strength of our knee replacement product sales, particularly in the Americas where we experienced a 22% increase, double digit growth from our spine business for the first time since acquiring Centerpulse and record margins," said Ray Elliott, Zimmer Chairman, President and CEO. "In February, the American Academy of
 
Orthopaedic Surgeons' meeting took place, providing a perfect showcase for our new developments in Procedures and Technologies, electromagnetic surgical navigation and Technology applications. Education and innovation remain the keys to our success. During the first quarter, Zimmer Institutes trained approximately 450 surgeons globally on techniquesmore than double the same quarter last year. We will continue to pursue the marriage of improved patient quality of life and measurable economic value added to our health care system."
Minimally Invasive Solutions (MIS)
Trabecular Metal
MIS
Zimmer continued to build on its industry leadership in Procedures and Technologies with the release of a white paper evaluating more than 1,000 patient outcomes and associated economic benefits of the Company's Hip Replacement Procedure. When compared to conventional hip replacement, the technique, as taught worldwide at Zimmer Institute facilities, saved an average of 30% in costs while improving three month clinical outcomes by more than 30%. The Company also launched a new procedure in February, the Anterolateral Hip Replacement technique, to appeal to a broader range of surgeon philosophies and to date has trained more than 150 surgeons.
MIS
MIS 2-Incision
MIS 2-Incision
MIS
"The acquisitions of Centerpulse and Implex continue to exceed our expectations, both in the marketplace and financially," said Elliott. "By year end, we expect to complete our cross-selling training and realize more than $100 million in annual expense synergies."
The following table provides sales results by geographic segment and product category, as well as the percent change compared to the prior year quarter and the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates.
 
Net earnings for the quarter were $174 million on a reported basis, and were $187 million adjusted*, an increase of 36% adjusted* over the prior year. Diluted earnings per share for the
 
quarter were $0.70 reported and were $0.75 adjusted*, an increase of 34% adjusted* over the prior year.
Guidance
The Company is reaffirming its full year 2005 sales guidance, estimated to be in a range of $3,325 million to $3,345 million which represents approximately 12% growth over prior year. Additionally, the Company is reaffirming its second quarter sales guidance estimate of approximately 15% growth over the prior year period.
Diluted earnings per share guidance for the full year is being increased to approximately $2.86 reported and $3.00 adjusted*, representing 24% adjusted* growth over prior year. Diluted earnings per share guidance for the second quarter is being increased to approximately $0.71 reported and $0.75 adjusted*, representing a 29% adjusted* increase over prior year. Second quarter guidance assumes increases in direct to consumer advertising spending related to procedures and technologies, incremental legal and IT costs, and increased R&D spending primarily related to, but not limited to, biologics.
MIS
Conference Call
The Company will conduct its first quarter 2005 investor conference call on Tuesday, April 26, 2005, at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The live audio webcast can be accessed live via Zimmer's Investor Relations website at . It will be archived for replay following the conference. Individuals who wish to dial into the conference call may do so at (800) 406-1106. International callers should dial (706) 634-7075. A digital recording will be available two hours after the completion of the conference call from April 26, 2005 to April 29, 2005. To access the recording, US/Canada callers should dial (800) 642-1687, or for International callers, dial (706) 645-9291, and enter the Conference ID, 5170737. A copy of this press release and other financial and statistical information about the periods to be presented in the conference call will be accessible through the Zimmer website at .
http://investor.zimmer.com
http://investor.zimmer.com
 
About the Company
Founded in 1927 and headquartered in Warsaw, Indiana, Zimmer is the worldwide #1 pure-play orthopaedic leader in designing, developing, manufacturing and marketing reconstructive and spinal implants, trauma and related orthopaedic surgical products. Zimmer has operations in more than 24 countries around the world and sells products in more than 100 countries. Zimmer's 2004 sales were approximately $3 billion. The Company is supported by the efforts of more than 6,500 employees worldwide.
*Note on Non-GAAP Financial Measures
As used in this press release, the term refers to operating performance measures that exclude acquisition and integration expenses and inventory step-up. The term refers to short-term and long-term debt obligations minus the Company's cash and equivalents and restricted cash. Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure are included in this press release.
"adjusted"
"net debt"
Zimmer Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the orthopaedics industry, management's beliefs and assumptions made by management. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as "may," "will," "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "targets," "forecasts," and "seeks" or the negative of such terms or other variations on such terms or comparable terminology. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our ability to successfully integrate Centerpulse AG and Implex Corp., the outcome of the Department of Justice investigation announced in March 2005 and the pending informal SEC investigation of Centerpulse accounting, price and product competition, rapid technological development, demographic changes, dependence on new product development, the mix of our products and services, supply and prices of raw materials and products, customer demand for our products and services, control of costs and expenses, our ability to form and implement
 
alliances, international growth, governmental laws and regulations affecting our U.S. and international businesses, including tax obligations and risks, product liability and intellectual property litigation losses, reimbursement levels from third-party payors, general industry and market conditions and growth rates and general domestic and international economic conditions including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations. For a further list and description of such risks and uncertainties, see the disclosure materials filed by Zimmer with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Zimmer disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Readers of this document are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, since, while we believe the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


