FILE:ZMH/ZMH-8K-20050112092854.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
                    January 12, 2005                    
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
                                        
(574) 267-6131
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
     On May 13, 2003, the company's stockholders approved the Zimmer Holdings, Inc. 2001 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). The Plan provides for the grant of equity-based awards to the company's officers and key employees.
     The form of nonqualified stock option grant award letter under the Plan is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference. The form of restricted stock award letter under the Plan is attached hereto as Exhibit 10.2 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: January 12, 2005
 

 
EXHIBIT 10.1
Compensation and Management Development Committee:
Gentlemen:
     I understand that this option has been granted to provide a means for me to acquire and/or expand an ownership position in Zimmer Holdings, Inc., and it is expected that I will retain the stock I receive upon the exercise of this option consistent with the Company's share retention guidelines in effect at the time of exercise.
     I hereby agree to the foregoing and following terms and conditions and accept the grant of this option subject thereto.
     Zimmer Holdings, Inc (the "Company") hereby grants pursuant to the terms of the heretofore designated stock option plan (the "Plan") to the heretofore named employee (the "Optionee"), as a matter of separate inducement and agreement in connection with her/his employment, and not as or in lieu of any salary or other compensation for her/his services, and upon the terms and conditions set forth below, the option to purchase the number of fully paid and non-assessable shares of the common stock of Zimmer Holdings, Inc., par value $.01 per share ("Common Stock"), heretofore set forth (this "Option") on or before the expiration of ten years from the date hereof (the "Expiration Date") at the aforementioned exercise price per share. The Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") has authorized the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board (the "Committee") to administer the Plan.
     This Option is granted upon and subject to the following terms and conditions:
     1. No Option may be exercised hereunder for the purchase of shares unless the Optionee shall have remained in the continuous employ of the Company or of one of its subsidiaries for one year following the date hereof. Thereafter, provided that the Optionee shall at the time of such exercise, except as specifically set forth herein to the contrary, been in the employ of the Company or of one of its subsidiaries, this Option may from time to time prior to the Expiration Date be exercised in the manner hereinafter set forth, and this Option may be exercised (i) only to the extent of 25 percent of the number of shares to which this Option applies on or after the first anniversary and prior to the second anniversary of the date of grant hereof, (ii) only to the extent of 50 percent of the number of shares to which this Option applies on or after the second anniversary and prior to the third anniversary of the date of grant hereof, and (iii) only to the extent of 75 percent of the number of shares to which this Option applies on or after the third anniversary and prior to the fourth anniversary of the date of grant hereof.
     2. This Option hereby granted may be exercised, in whole or in part in accordance with the installment schedule heretofore set forth, by written notification delivered in person or by mail to the Secretary of the Company at its executive office in Warsaw, Indiana, such notification to be effective upon receipt by the Secretary on or before the specified Expiration Date, in
 
substantially the form enclosed herewith, specifying the number of shares with respect to which this Option is then being exercised and accompanied by payment for such shares. In the event the specified Expiration Date falls on a day which is not a regular business day at the Company's executive office in Warsaw, Indiana, then such written notification must be received at such office on or before the last regular business day prior to such Expiration Date. Payment is to be made by certified personal check, or bank draft payable to the order of Zimmer Holdings, Inc., by payment through a broker in accordance with procedures permitted by Regulation T of the Federal Reserve Board, or by delivery of a certificate or certificates for shares of Common Stock owned by the Optionee for at least six months having a fair market value at the date of exercise equal to the purchase price for such shares, or in any combination of the foregoing; provided, however, that payment in shares of Common Stock will not be permitted unless at least 100 shares of Common Stock are required and delivered for such purpose. Any stock certificate or certificates so delivered must be endorsed, or accompanied by an appropriate stock power, to the order of Zimmer Holdings, Inc., with the signature guaranteed by a bank or trust company or by a member firm of the New York Stock Exchange. No shares shall be sold or delivered hereunder until full payment for such shares has been made. At its discretion, the Committee may modify or suspend any method for the exercise of this Option. The Optionee shall have the rights of a shareholder only with respect to shares of stock for which certificates have been issued to her/him.
     3. The Company shall not be required to issue or deliver any certificate or certificates for shares of its Common Stock purchased upon the exercise of any part of this Option prior to (i) the admission of such shares to listing on any stock exchange on which the stock may then be listed, (ii) the completion of any registration or other qualification of such shares under any state or federal law or rulings or regulations of any governmental regulatory body, (iii) the obtaining of any consent or approval or other clearance from any governmental agency, which the Company shall, in its sole discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable, and (iv) the payment to the Company, upon its demand, of any amount requested by the Company for the purpose of satisfying its withholding obligation, if any, with respect to federal, state or local income or FICA or earnings tax or any other applicable tax assessment (plus interest or penalties thereon, if any, caused by a delay in making such payment) incurred by reason of the exercise of this Option or the transfer of shares thereupon (the "Withholding Tax Obligation"). The Optionee may satisfy the Withholding Tax Obligation by authorizing the Company to withhold an appropriate number of shares being issued on exercise; provided, however, that the value of the shares withheld shall not exceed the Company's minimum required Withholding Tax Obligation with respect to the exercise of this Option.
     4. This Option is not transferable by the Optionee otherwise than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution, and is exercisable, during the life of the Optionee, only by her/him.
     5. Notwithstanding any other provision hereof:
     (a) If the Optionee shall retire or cease to be employed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries for any reason (other than death or disability entitling the Optionee to receive payments under a disability pay plan of the Company or any of its subsidiaries) after the Optionee shall have been continuously so employed for one year from the aforementioned date of grant, the Optionee may exercise this Option only to the extent that the Optionee was otherwise entitled to exercise it at the time of such retirement or cessation of employment with the Company or any of its subsidiaries, but in no event after (i) the date that is ten years next succeeding the date this Option was granted, in the case of retirement or cessation of employment with the Company or any of its subsidiaries on or after the Optionee's 65th birthday, or on or after the Optionee's 55th birthday after having completed 10 years of service with the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or on or after the date the sum of the Optionee's age plus years of service, when rounded up to the next highest number, equals at least 70 and the Optionee has completed ten years of service with the Company or any of its subsidiaries and the Optionee's employment terminates for any reason other than death, disability, resignation, willful misconduct, or activity deemed detrimental to the interest of the Company and, where applicable, the Optionee has executed a general release, a covenant not to compete and/or a covenant not to solicit as required by the Company, or (ii) the date that is three months next succeeding retirement or cessation of employment, in the case of any other retirement or cessation of employment with the Company or any of its subsidiaries.
     (b) Whether military or government service or other bona fide leave of absence shall constitute termination of employment for the purpose of this Option shall be determined in each case by the Committee in its sole discretion.
     (c) If the Optionee has been continuously employed by the Company or one of its subsidiaries for one year after the granting of this Option and retires or ceases to be so employed by reason of disability entitling such Optionee to receive payments under a disability pay plan of the Company or a subsidiary, the Optionee shall be treated as though he/she remained in the employ of the Company or a subsidiary until the earlier of (i) cessation of payments under the disability pay plan, (ii) death, or (iii) attainment of 65th birthday.
     (d) Except as provided in section 4, in the event of the death of the Optionee while in the employ of the Company or of any of its subsidiaries or within whichever period after retirement or cessation of employment of the Optionee specified in subparagraphs (a) and (c) is applicable, and after he/she shall have been continuously so employed for one year after the granting of her/his Option, this Option theretofore granted to her/him shall be exercisable by the executors, administrators, legatees or distributees of her/his estate, as the case may be, only to the extent that the Optionee would have been entitled to exercise it if the Optionee were then living, subject to subparagraph (e) herein, but in the case of the death of any Optionee after retirement or cessation of employment in no event after the later of (i) the date twelve months next succeeding such death and (ii) the last day of the period after Retirement or other cessation of employment of the Optionee specified in subparagraphs (a)(i) or (a)(ii) and provided, in any case, not after the Expiration Date.
 
     In the event this Option is exercised by the executors, administrators, legatees or distributees of the estate of the Optionee, the Company shall be under no obligation to issue stock hereunder unless and until the Company is satisfied that the person or persons exercising this Option are the duly appointed legal representatives of the Optionee's estate or the proper legatees or distributees thereof.
     (e) The provisions of section 1 hereof restricting the percentage of shares of an Option grant which can be exercised prior to the fourth anniversary of the date of such grant shall not apply if (i) the Optionee has reached age 60; (ii) the Optionee dies while in the employ of the Company or any of its subsidiaries; (iii) the Optionee shall have retired or ceased to be employed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries (1) on or after the Optionee's 65th birthday, or (2) on or after the Optionee's 55th birthday after having completed 10 years of service with the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or (3) on or after the date the sum of the Optionee's age plus years of service, when rounded up to the next highest number, equals at least 70 and the Optionee has completed ten years of service with the Company or any of its subsidiaries and the Optionee's employment terminates for any reason other than death, resignation, willful misconduct, or activity deemed detrimental to the interest of the Company and, where applicable, the Optionee has executed a general release, a non-solicitation and/or non-compete agreement with the Company as required by the Company; or (iv) the Optionee's employment terminates for any reason other than death, resignation, willful misconduct, or activity deemed detrimental to the interest of the Company provided the Optionee executes a general release and, where applicable, a non-solicitation and/or non-compete agreement with the Company as required by the Company. For the purposes of this Option, service with Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates before the effective date of the Plan shall be included as service with the Company.
     6. Under certain circumstances, if the Optionee's employment with the Company or one of its subsidiaries terminates during the three year period following a change in control of the Company, this Option may become fully vested and exercisable. Please refer to the Plan for more information.
     7. If prior to the Expiration Date changes occur in the outstanding Common Stock by reason of stock dividends, recapitalization, mergers, consolidations, stock splits, combinations or exchanges of shares and the like, the exercise price per share and the number and class of shares subject to this Option shall be appropriately adjusted by the Committee, whose determination shall be conclusive. If as a result of any adjustment under this paragraph any Optionee should become entitled to a fractional share of stock, the Optionee shall have the right to purchase only the adjusted number of full shares and no payment or other adjustment will be made with respect to the fractional share so disregarded.
     8. Until the Optionee is advised otherwise by the Committee, all notices and other correspondence with respect to this Option will be effective upon receipt at the following address:
     Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Zimmer Holdings, Inc.
Zimmer Holdings, Inc. 345 East Main Street Post Office Box 708 Warsaw, Indiana 46581-0708
     9. Except as explicitly provided in this agreement, this agreement will not confer any rights upon the Optionee, including any right with respect to continuation of employment by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any right to future awards under the Plan. In no event shall the value, at any time, of this agreement, the Common Stock covered by this agreement or any other benefit provided under this agreement be included as compensation or earnings for purposes of any other compensation, retirement, or benefit plan offered to employees of the Company or it subsidiaries unless otherwise specifically provided for in such plan.
     10. The Board and the Committee shall have full authority and discretion, subject only to the express terms of the Plan, to decide all matters relating to the administration and interpretation of the Plan and this agreement and all such Board and Committee determinations shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon the Optionee and all interested parties. The terms and conditions set forth in this agreement are subject in all respects to the terms and conditions of the Plan, as amended from time to time, which shall be controlling. This agreement contains the entire understanding of the parties and may not be modified or amended except in writing duly signed by the parties. The waiver of, or failure to enforce, any provision of this agreement or the Plan by the Company will not constitute a waiver by the Company of the same provision or right at any other time or a waiver of any other provision or right. The various provisions of this agreement are severable and any determination of invalidity or unenforceability of any provision shall have no effect on the remaining provisions. This agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors, assigns, and heirs of the respective parties. The validity and construction of this agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Indiana.

 
Exhibit 10.2
Compensation and Management Development Committee:
Gentlemen:
     You have advised me that I have been granted the above restricted stock award subject to the terms, restrictions and conditions set forth in this agreement, including the provision that receipt of the shares of the stock award is contingent upon my remaining in the continuous employ of Zimmer Holdings, Inc. or a subsidiary for period of five years from the Award Date. I understand that some or all of such shares may be forfeited if I leave the Company prior to that time, and it is expected that I will retain the stock I receive upon the lapse of the restrictions consistent with the Company's retention guidelines in effect at the time the restrictions lapse.
     My signature below indicates my agreement to all the terms, restrictions and conditions herein set forth.
     1. 
STOCK AWARD
     Under the terms of the Zimmer Holdings, Inc. 2001 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Plan") the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (the "Committee") has granted to the Award Recipient on the Award Date an award of restricted Zimmer Holdings, Inc. Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share ("Common Stock"), as designated herein subject to the terms, conditions, and restrictions set forth in this agreement (this "Stock Award"). The purposes of such Stock Award is to motivate and retain the Award Recipient as an employee of Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (the "Company") or a subsidiary of the Company, to encourage the Award Recipient to continue to give best efforts for the Company's future success, and to further the opportunity for stock ownership by the Award Recipient in order to increase the Award Recipient's proprietary interest in the Company. Except as may be required by law, the Award Recipient is not required to make any payment (other than payments for taxes pursuant to Section 5 hereof) or provide any consideration other than the rendering of future services to the Company or a subsidiary of the Company.
 
     2. 
STOCK CERTIFICATES
     The stock certificate(s), if any, evidencing the shares of this Stock Award shall be registered on the Company's books in the name of the Award Recipient as of the Award Date. Physical possession or custody of such stock certificate(s), if any, shall be retained by the Company or by a bank or other institution in accordance with rules adopted by the Committee until such time as the applicable Restriction Period ends as set forth in Section 3 of this agreement or such earlier termination of employment described in Section 3 of this agreement.
     While in its possession, the Company reserves the right to place a legend on the stock certificate(s) restricting the transferability of such certificate(s) and referring to the terms and conditions (including forfeiture) approved by the Committee and relating to the shares represented by the certificate(s). After the applicable Restriction Period, or earlier termination of employment, referred to above, ends, the Company shall cause an unlegended stock certificate(s) covering the requisite number of vested shares registered on the Company's books in the name of the Award Recipient or Award Recipient's beneficiary(ies), as appropriate, to be delivered to such person(s) as soon as practicable after the applicable Restriction Period ends.
     The Company shall not be required to issue or deliver any certificate or certificates for shares of its Common Stock upon the end of the Restriction Period prior to (i) the admission of such shares to listing on any stock exchange on which the stock may then be listed, (ii) the completion of any registration or other qualification of such shares under any state or federal law or rulings or regulations of any governmental regulatory body, or (iii) the obtaining of any consent or approval or other clearance from any governmental agency, which the Company shall, in its sole discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable.
     3. 
RESTRICTIONS AND FORFEITURES
     Except as otherwise provided in this Section 3, shares of stock covered by this Stock Award shall be subject to the restrictions and conditions set forth herein during the period from the Award Date until such shares become vested and nonforfeitable (the "Restriction Period").
     Except as set forth in this section 3, one third of this Stock Award shall become vested and nonforfeitable on the third anniversary of the Award Date provided the Award Recipient has been continuously employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company since the Award Date; an additional third of this Stock Award shall become vested and nonforfeitable on the fourth anniversary of the Award Date provided the Award Recipient shall have been continuously employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company since the Award Date; and the final third of this Stock Award shall become vested and nonforfeitable on the fifth anniversary of the Award Date provided the Award Recipient shall have been continuously employed by the Company or a subsidiary of the Company since the Award Date.
     (a) Except as set forth below, during the Restriction Period, the Award Recipient may not sell, transfer, pledge or assign any of the shares of stock covered by this Stock Award which have not vested.
     (b) Except as the Committee may otherwise determine, the Award Recipient shall have with respect to the stock covered by this Stock Award all of the rights of a stockholder of the Company, including the right to vote the shares and receive dividends and other distributions provided that distributions in the form of stock shall be subject to the same restrictions as the stock of the underlying Stock Award. Certificates for shares of stock covered by this Stock Award shall be delivered to the Award Recipient after the Restriction Period shall have expired without any forfeiture occurring with respect to such shares.
     (c) Except as set forth below, if during the Restriction Period the Award Recipient terminates employment with the Company or a subsidiary for any reason other than retirement, death or disability, the shares covered by this Stock Award that are not already vested shall be forfeited and will be deemed to be reacquired by the Company. If during the Restriction Period and after the Award Recipient has been continuously employed for one year or more from Award Date, the Award Recipient terminates employment with the Company or a subsidiary on account of retirement, death or disability, the restrictions with respect to all the shares of this Stock Award shall be waived and the shares will be deemed fully vested. In the event of the termination of an Award Recipient's employment by the Company, other than for cause, retirement, death or disability, after one year of continuous employment with the Company after the Award Date, a pro rata portion of this Stock Award shall be deemed vested as shown in Schedule A to this agreement. Such pro rata portion shall include the portion, if any, of this Stock Award already vested under the terms of this agreement. "Retirement" shall mean the Award Recipient's termination of employment with the Company or a subsidiary on or after (i) the Award Recipient's 65th birthday, (ii) the Award Recipient's 55th birthday after having completed 10 years of service with the Company or any of its subsidiaries, or (iii) the date the sum of the
 
Award Recipient's age plus years of service, when rounded up to the next highest number, equals at least 70 and the Award Recipient has completed ten years of service with the Company or any of its subsidiaries and the Award Recipient's employment terminates for any reason other than death, disability, resignation, willful misconduct, or activity deemed detrimental to the interest of the Company and, where applicable, the Award Recipient has executed a general release and/or a covenant not to solicit as required by the Company. "Disability" shall mean qualifying and receiving payments under a disability pay plan of the Company. "Cause" shall mean termination by the Company of the Award Recipient's employment upon the willful and continued failure by the Award Recipient to substantially perform the Award Recipient's duties with the Company (other than any such a failure resulting from the Award Recipient's incapacity due to physical or mental illness) for a period of at least 30 days after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to the Award Recipient, which demand specifically identifies the manner in which the Award Recipient has not substantially performed the Award Recipient's duties, or the willful engaging by the Award Recipient in conduct which is demonstrably and materially injurious to the Company or its subsidiaries, monetarily or otherwise. No act, or failure to act, on the Award Recipient's part shall be deemed willful unless done, or omitted to be done, by the Award Recipient not in good faith and without reasonable belief that the Award Recipient's act, or failure to act, was in the best interest of the Company. In the event of special circumstances as determined by the Committee, the Committee may, in its sole discretion where it finds that a waiver would be in the best interests of the Company, waive any restrictions then remaining with respect to all or part of the stock awarded pursuant to this Stock Award and accelerate the vesting with regard to such Stock Award or part thereof. For the purposes of this Stock Award, service with Bristol-Myers Squibb Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates before the effective date of the Plan shall be included as service with the Company.
     (d) In the event that the Award Recipient fails promptly to pay or make satisfactory arrangements as to the Withholding Tax Obligation as provided in Section 5, all shares then subject to restriction shall be forfeited by the Award Recipient and will be deemed to be reacquired by the Company.
     (e) The Award Recipient may, at any time prior to the expiration of the Restriction Period, waive all rights with respect to all or some of the shares covered by this Stock Award by delivering to the Company a written notice of such waiver.
     (f) Any shares covered by this Stock Award which are forfeited by the Award Recipient shall be available for use under the Plan in accordance with Section 3 of the Plan.
     (g) (i) A transfer of an Award Recipient from the Company to a subsidiary, or vice versa, or from one subsidiary to another, (ii) a leave of absence, duly authorized in writing by the Company, for military service or sickness or for any other purpose approved by the Company if the period of such leave does not exceed ninety (90) days, and (iii) a leave of absence in excess of ninety (90) days, duly authorized in writing, by the Company, provided the Award Recipient's right to reemployment is guaranteed either by a statute or by contract, shall not be deemed a termination of employment. However, failure of the Award Recipient to return to the employ of the Company at the end of an approved leave of absence shall be deemed a termination. During a leave of absence as defined in (ii) or (iii), the Award Recipient will be considered to have been continuously employed by the Company but such period shall not be counted in determining the period of employment for vesting purposes of this Section 3.
     (h) (i) The Award Recipient agrees that, during the Restriction Period and for the Non-Competition Period set forth below, except with the prior written consent of the Company, the Award Recipient shall not in any way, directly or indirectly, own, manage, operate, control, accept employment or a consulting position with or otherwise advise or assist or be actively connected with or have any financial interest in, directly or indirectly, any enterprise which engages in, or otherwise carries on, any business activity in competition with the business of the Company in any geographic area (including, without limitation, the United States and each county in the State of California in which the Company from time to time sells or offers its products for sale) in which it engages in such business. The Award Recipient recognizes that the Company's business is worldwide in scope in that it directly advertises and solicits business from customers wherever they may be found. Wherever "Company" is used in this sub-section (h), it shall include all subsidiaries and affiliates of the Company. The Award Recipient further agrees that during the periods referenced above the Award Recipient shall not take any action which might divert from the Company or any of its affiliates, successors or assigns any opportunity which would be within the scope of its or their respective present or future operations or business. It is understood that ownership of not more than one percent (1%) of the equity securities of a public company shall in no way be prohibited pursuant to the foregoing provisions.
          (ii) For purposes of this sub-section (h), the Non-Competition Period shall be a period of one year commencing on the date of the Award Recipient's termination of employment for any reason.
     4. 
DEATH OF AWARD RECIPIENT
     In the event of the Award Recipients death prior to the delivery of vested shares hereunder, such shares shall be delivered to the Award Recipients estate, upon presentation to the Committee of letters testamentary or other documentation satisfactory to the Committee.
'
'
 
     5. 
TAXES
     At such time as the Company is required to withhold taxes with respect to this Stock Award covered hereby, or at an earlier date as determined by the Company, the Award Recipient shall make remittance to the Company of an amount sufficient to cover the Company's withholding obligation, if any, with respect to federal, state or local income or FICA or earnings tax or any other applicable tax assessment (plus interest or penalties thereon, if any, caused by a delay in making such payment) incurred with respect to such Stock Award, including dividends payable to the Award Recipient (the "Withholding Tax Obligation"). The Company and its subsidiaries shall, to the extent permitted by law, have the right to deduct such Withholding Tax Obligation from any payment or distribution of any kind otherwise payable or distributable to the Award Recipient, including Common Stock subject to this Stock Award and dividends on such Common Stock; provided, in the case of Common Stock, that the market value of the shares withheld may not exceed the Company's minimum required Withholding Tax Obligation with respect to this Stock Award. Prior to vesting of the shares covered by this Stock Award, the dividends payable to the Award Recipient will be compensation (wages) for tax purposes and will be included on the Award Recipients W-2 form.
'
     6. 
CHANGES IN CAPITALIZATION
     If prior to the expiration of the Restriction Period changes occur in the outstanding Common Stock by reason of stock dividends, recapitalization, mergers, consolidations, stock splits, combinations or exchanges of shares and the like, the number and class of shares subject to this Stock Award shall be appropriately adjusted by the Committee, whose determination shall be conclusive. If as a result of any adjustment under this paragraph any Award Recipient should become entitled to a fractional share of stock, the Award Recipient shall have the right only the adjusted number of full shares and no payment or other adjustment will be made with respect to the fractional share so disregarded.
     7. 
NOTICE
     Until the Award Recipient is advised otherwise by the Committee, all notices and other correspondence with respect to this Stock Award will be effective upon receipt at the following address:
     Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Zimmer Holdings, Inc.
Zimmer Holdings, Inc. 345 East Main Street Post Office Box 708 Warsaw, Indiana 46581-0708
     8. 
NO ADDITIONAL RIGHTS
     Except as explicitly provided in this agreement, this agreement will not confer any rights upon the Award Recipient, including any right with respect to continuation of employment by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or any right to future awards under the Plan. In no event shall the value, at any time, of this agreement, the Common Stock covered by this agreement or any other benefit provided under this agreement be included as compensation or earnings for purposes of any other compensation, retirement, or benefit plan offered to employees of the Company or its subsidiaries unless otherwise specifically provided for in such plan.
     9. 
CONSTRUCTION AND INTERPRETATION
     The Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") and the Committee shall have full authority and discretion, subject only to the express terms of the Plan, to decide all matters relating to the administration and interpretation of the Plan and this agreement and all such Board and Committee determinations shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon the Award Recipient and all interested parties. The terms and conditions set forth in this agreement are subject in all respects to the terms and conditions of the Plan, as amended from time to time, which shall be controlling. This agreement contains the entire understanding of the parties and may not be modified or amended except in writing duly signed by the parties. The waiver of, or failure to enforce, any provision of this agreement or the Plan by the Company will not constitute a waiver by the Company of
 
the same provision or right at any other time or a waiver of any other provision or right. The various provisions of this agreement are severable and any determination of invalidity or unenforceability of any provision shall have no effect on the remaining provisions. This agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors, assigns, and heirs of the respective parties. The validity and construction of this agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Indiana.


