FILE:ZMH/ZMH-8K-20050420123133.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)       April 19, 2005
Registrant's telephone number, including area code      
(574) 267-6131
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (the "Company") has submitted to its stockholders a proposed restatement and amendment of the Company's TeamShare Stock Option Plan (the "Plan") which would, among other things, increase the number of shares of common stock available for issuance under the Plan from 3,000,000 to 13,000,000 shares. On April 19, 2005, the Board of Directors adopted a resolution further amending the Plan, conditioned on the stockholders approving the Plan as contained in the Company's proxy statement dated March 22, 2005, to limit the number of shares of stock which may be issued under the Plan to 11,000,000 shares.
     A copy of the Plan, as amended, is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Appendix 99.1
 
    
1. Purpose:
The purpose of the Zimmer Holdings, Inc. TeamShare Stock Option Plan (the "Plan") is to advance the interests of Zimmer Holdings, Inc. and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates by giving substantially all Employees a stake in the Company's future growth, in the form of stock options, thereby improving such Employees' long-term incentives and aligning their interests with those of the Company's shareholders.
    
2. Definitions:
For purposes of this Plan:
    
3. Shares Available for Options:
The amount of shares of the Company's stock which may be issued for options granted under the Plan shall not exceed 11,000,000 shares, subject to adjustment under Section 10 hereof. If and to the extent options granted under the Plan terminate, expire, or are canceled, forfeited, exchanged or surrendered without having been exercised, the shares subject to such options shall again be available for purposes of the Plan. Options granted under Sections 6 and 17 of the Plan shall not count against the foregoing limitation, to the extent provided in Sections 6 and 17. The stock to be issued may be either authorized and unissued shares or issued shares acquired by the Company or its subsidiaries.
 
 
    
4. Administration:
The Plan shall be administered under the supervision of the Board of Directors of the Company, which may exercise its powers, to the extent herein provided, through the agency of the Compensation and Management Development Committee (the "Committee"), which shall be appointed by the Board of Directors of the Company and shall consist of not less than two (2) directors who shall serve at the pleasure of the Board. In addition, the Board of Directors or the Committee may delegate in writing any or all of its authority hereunder to one or more other committees or subcommittees, and the initial grants to be made at the time of the spin-off of the Company's stock from Bristol-Myers Squibb Company may be made by the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors of Bristol-Myers Squibb Company. To the extent that the Board of Directors or a committee administers the Plan, references to the Committee shall mean the Board of Directors or such committee.
    
The Committee, from time to time, may adopt rules and regulations for carrying out the provisions and purposes of the Plan and make such other determinations, not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, as the Committee shall deem appropriate. The interpretation and construction of any provision of the Plan by the Committee shall, unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, be final and conclusive.
    
The Committee shall maintain a written record of its proceedings. A majority of the Committee shall constitute a quorum, and the acts of a majority of the members present at any meeting at which a quorum is present, or acts unanimously approved in writing, shall be the acts of the Committee.
    
5. Eligibility:
An option may be granted to an Employee who is actively employed with the Company or any Subsidiary or Affiliate on the grant date provided the Employee regularly works or is anticipated to regularly work at least 1,000 hours in a twelve (12) consecutive month period.
    
The adoption of this Plan shall not be deemed to give any Employee any right to be granted an option to purchase Common Stock of the Company, except to the extent and upon such terms and conditions as may be determined by the Committee.
    
6. Grants as of Effective Date:
(a) On the effective date of the Plan, the Company shall assume from Bristol-Myers Squibb Company options granted under the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company TeamShare Stock Option Plan that are in effect immediately before the effective date of this Plan with respect to employees of the Company and its Subsidiaries and Affiliates (the "Prior Options"). Except as described below, the terms of the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company TeamShare Stock Option Plan and the option agreements in effect pursuant to the Bristol-Myers Squibb Company TeamShare Stock Option Plan will continue to govern the Prior Options. However, as a result of the assumption, the Prior Options will be converted into options with respect to the Common Stock of the Company, and the number of shares and the exercise price will be adjusted to reflect the spin-off of the Company from Bristol-Myers Squibb Company. On and after the spin-off date, references in the option and award agreements to Bristol-Myers Squibb will mean the Company. Any shares of the Company's Common Stock that are subject to options pursuant to the Prior Options will be issued under this Plan but will not be counted against the limitations provided under Section 3 of the Plan. The Committee will administer the Prior Options, as converted into options to purchase Common Stock of the Company.
    
7. Stock Options:
Stock options under the Plan shall consist of nonqualified stock options. Each option shall be subject to the following terms and conditions:
 
 
 
 
    
8. Change in Control:
In the event of a change in control of the Company prior to the exercise of options granted under this Plan, but after the optionee has completed one year of continuous employment subsequent to the date of the granting of an option, all outstanding options shall become immediately fully vested and exercisable notwithstanding any provisions of the Plan to the contrary.
    
In addition, in the event of a change in control of the Company, the Committee may (i) determine that outstanding options shall be assumed by, or replaced with comparable options by, the surviving corporation (or a parent or subsidiary of the surviving corporation) or (ii) take such other actions with respect to outstanding options as the Committee deems appropriate.
    
For the purpose of this Plan, a change in control shall be deemed to have occurred on the earlier of the following dates:
 
 
    
9. Determination of Breach of Conditions:
The determination of the Committee as to whether an event has occurred resulting in a forfeiture or a termination or reduction of the Company's obligations in accordance with the provisions of the Plan shall be conclusive.
    
10. Adjustment in the Event of Change in Stock:
In the event of changes in the outstanding Common Stock of the Company by reason of stock dividends, recapitalization, mergers, consolidations, stock splits, combinations or exchanges of shares and the like, the aggregate number and class of shares available under the Plan, the number, class and the price of shares subject to outstanding options shall be appropriately adjusted by the Committee, whose determination shall be conclusive.
    
11. Taxes:
In connection with the transfer of shares of Common Stock to an optionee (or at such earlier date as may be required by local law), the Company may require the optionee to pay the amount required by any applicable governmental entity to be withheld or otherwise deducted and paid with respect to such transfer. Subject to Section 12 hereof, an optionee shall satisfy the obligation to pay withholding tax by providing the Company with funds (in U.S. dollars) sufficient to enable the Company to pay such Withholding Tax, or at the Company's discretion, the Company may retain or accept upon delivery thereof by the optionee shares of Common Stock sufficient in value to cover the amount of such withholding tax; provided that shares may not be withheld in excess of the Company's minimum applicable withholding tax for federal (including FICA), state, foreign and local tax liabilities with respect to the optionee.
    
12. Employees Based Outside of the United States:
Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, in order to foster and promote achievement of the purposes of the Plan or to comply with provisions of laws in other countries in which the Company, its Affiliates and its Subsidiaries operate or have Employees, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall have the power and authority to (i) determine which Employees employed outside the United States are eligible to participate in the Plan, (ii) modify the terms and conditions of any options granted to Employees who are employed outside the United States, (iii) establish subplans, modified option exercise procedures and other terms and procedures to the extent such actions may be necessary or advisable, and (iv) grant to Employees employed in countries wherein the granting of stock options is impossible or impracticable, as determined by the Committee, stock appreciation rights with terms and conditions that, to the fullest extent possible, are substantially identical to the stock options granted hereunder. In addition, the Committee may grant such stock appreciation rights to individuals who provide services to the Company and who otherwise would be characterized as employees, but who are not permitted to be Employees of the Company pursuant to local laws of the country wherein the workers are employed.
    
13. Amendment of the Plan:
The Board of Directors may amend or suspend the Plan at any time and from time to time. No such amendment of the Plan may, however, without the written consent of the optionee, alter or impair any option.
    
14. Miscellaneous:
By accepting any benefits under the Plan, each optionee and each person claiming under or through such optionee shall be conclusively deemed to have indicated acceptance and ratification of, and consent to, any action taken or made to be taken or made under the Plan by the Company, the Board, the Committee or any other committee appointed by the Board. No participant or any person claiming under or through him or her shall have any right or interest, whether vested or otherwise, in the Plan or in any option thereunder, contingent or otherwise, unless and until all of the terms, conditions and provisions of the Plan and the Agreement that affect such participant or such other person shall have been complied with. Nothing contained in the Plan or in any Agreement shall require the Company to segregate or earmark any cash or other property. Neither the adoption of the Plan nor its operation shall in any way affect the rights and powers of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates to dismiss and/or discharge any Employee at any time.
    
15. Conditions:
The Company shall not be required to issue or deliver any certificate or certificates for shares of Common Stock purchased upon the exercise of any option granted under the Plan prior to (i) the admission of such shares to listing on any stock exchange on which the stock may then be listed, (ii) the completion of any registration or other qualification of such shares under any state or federal law or rulings or regulations of any governmental regulatory body, (iii) the obtaining of any consent or approval or other clearance from any governmental agency, which the Company shall, in its sole discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable, and (iv) the payment to the Company, upon its demand, of any amount requested by the Company for the purpose of satisfying its liability, if any, to withhold federal, state or local income or earnings tax or any other applicable tax or assessment (plus interest or penalties thereon, if any caused by a delay in making such payment) incurred by reason of the exercise of any option granted under the Plan or the transfer of shares thereupon.
    
16. Term of the Plan:
The Plan shall become effective as of August 6, 2001 by action of the Board of Directors. The Plan shall terminate on December 31, 2010, or at such earlier date as may be determined by the Board of Directors. Termination of the Plan, however, shall not affect the rights of optionees under options theretofore granted to them, and all unexpired options shall continue in force and operation after termination of the Plan except as they may lapse or be terminated by their own terms and conditions.
 
 
17. Grants in Connection with Corporate Transactions and Otherwise:
Nothing contained in this Plan shall be construed to (i) limit the right of the Committee to make grants under this Plan in connection with the acquisition, by purchase, lease, merger, consolidation or otherwise, of the business or assets of any corporation, firm or association, including grants to employees thereof who become employees of the Company, or for other proper corporate purposes, or (ii) limit the right of the Company to grant options or make other awards outside of this Plan. Without limiting the foregoing, the Committee may make a grant to an employee of another corporation who becomes an employee of the Company by reason of a corporate merger, consolidation, acquisition of stock or property, reorganization or liquidation involving the Company in substitution for an option or award granted by such corporation. The terms and conditions of the substitute grants may vary from the terms and conditions required by the Plan and from those of the substituted stock incentives. The Committee shall prescribe the provisions of the substitute grants. Any options that are converted into Company options as a result of a merger or acquisition will not count against the limitations provided under Section 3.
    
18. Governing Law:
This Plan, and the validity and construction of any options granted hereunder, shall be governed by the laws of the State of Indiana.
    
19. Repricing of Options:
Nothing in this Plan shall permit the repricing of any outstanding options other than (a) with the prior approval of the Company's stockholders, or (b) pursuant to Section 10. The foregoing restriction shall also apply to any other transaction which would be treated as a repricing of outstanding options under generally accepted accounting principles.
 


