FILE:ZMH/ZMH-8K-20050727172333.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
July 27, 2005
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
(574) 267-6131
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
     On July 27, 2005, Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (the "Registrant") reported its results of operations for the quarter ended June 30, 2005. The Registrant's earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and the information set forth therein is incorporated herein by reference and constitutes a part of this report.
     As previously announced, the Registrant acquired Centerpulse AG on October 2, 2003 and Implex Corp. on April 23, 2004. The earnings release attached as Exhibit 99.1 includes the operating performance measures of adjusted net earnings, adjusted diluted EPS and projected diluted EPS which exclude acquisition and integration expenses and inventory step-up. It also includes other non-GAAP financial measures including net margin, operating margin, gross margin and net debt.
     Management believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures allows investors to better understand the operating results of the Registrant. However, these measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, other measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
     All of the non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure in the press release.
     The Registrant is furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibits, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" with the SEC or incorporated by reference into any other filing with the SEC. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, the Registrant makes no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibits.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c) Exhibits
99.1 Press Release, dated July 27, 2005, issued by the Registrant.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
EXHIBIT 99.1
(WARSAW, IN) July 27, 2005  Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (NYSE and SWX: ZMH) today reported financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2005. For the quarter, the Company announced net sales of $847 million and diluted earnings per share of $0.76 reported and $0.80 adjusted*, exceeding First Call estimates of $842 million and $0.75 adjusted*, respectively. Reported results include acquisition and integration expenses and inventory step-up, as applicable.
 
"We had a strong and balanced quarter with 15 percent sales growth in each of our geographic segments and above market performance, with greater than 20 percent growth, in both Spine and Dental," said Ray Elliott, Zimmer Chairman, President and CEO. "Almost a quarter of a billion dollars of operating cash flow this period creates the potential to become net debt free again early in the fourth quarteronly two years from the date of our Centerpulse acquisition."
Zimmer said it continues to be pleased by the product, market and expense synergy opportunities realized as a result of the Centerpulse acquisition. With 2,594 integration milestones complete, the Company is three-quarters of the way through its comprehensive plan and is confident it will exceed $100 million in annual synergy expense savings.
The Company said it has completed more new product projects in the first half of 2005 than in the full year 2004, and continued to emphasize its leadership in ( Procedures and Technologies. "We have trained twice as many surgeons at our 23 Zimmer Institute locations in the first half of this year than during the same period last year," Elliott said. "We have greatly increased training on our newest procedures with more than 400 surgeons trained this quarter alone in our  Total Knee Replacement Procedure and nearly 400 this quarter in the Anterolateral Hip Replacement Procedure."
Minimally Invasive Solutions
MIS)
MIS Quad-Sparing
MIS
The Company noted that it released the Tibial Component, the first knee replacement implant that can be assembled inside the patient, facilitating minimally invasive procedures, and that it has released 5,000 knee instrument sets since inception, including more than 1,250 for the Procedure. In computer navigation, Zimmer said that 180 surgeries have been performed with the Electromagnetic Computer Navigation System, developed in cooperation with exclusive partner Medtronic, and that the Portable Navigation Systema low-cost, convenient version of its electromagnetic surgical navigation system will be in limited release for knees this fall.
Zimmer NexGen MIS
MIS
MIS Quad-Sparing
Zimmer Computer Assisted Solutions
iNav
,
 
The following tables provide sales results by geographic segment and product category, as well as the percent change compared to the prior year quarter and six months and the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates.
 
 
 
Net earnings for the quarter were $191 million on a reported basis, and were $199 million adjusted*, an increase of 39% adjusted* over the prior year period. Diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.76 reported and were $0.80 adjusted*, an increase of 38% adjusted* over the prior year period. Included in the quarter is approximately $6.5 million of pre-tax income reflected in cost of goods related primarily to the favorable resolution of certain legal and other matters. These items contributed 0.8% to gross profit margin and a little less than $0.02 to diluted earnings per share.
 
 
 
Net earnings for the six months were $364 million on a reported basis, and were $386 million adjusted*, an increase of 37% adjusted* over the prior year period. Diluted earnings per share for the six months were $1.46 reported and were $1.55 adjusted*, an increase of 36% adjusted* over the prior year period.
Guidance
The Company is updating its guidance for the balance of 2005 to incorporate the results of the second quarter and the significant change in expected contribution from foreign currency detailed in the Company's June 15, 2005 press release.
Full year 2005 sales guidance provided at the end of the first quarter was a range of $3,325 to $3,345 million. Since then, the expected contribution to sales growth from foreign currency rate changes, using current rates, has decreased by $53 million as a result of the strengthening U.S. dollar against most foreign currencies. Incorporating the lower expected contribution from foreign currency differences during the last six months of 2005, and maintaining constant currency growth rates during the last six months of 2005 at the same 11% that the Company reported in the first six months, our revised full year 2005 sales estimate is approximately $3,325 million. In short, the Company is absorbing the $53 million in changes from foreign currency, while maintaining sales guidance within the range established at the end of the first quarter. Expectations for third quarter sales are approximately $777 million, consisting of constant currency growth of about 11% and zero contribution from foreign currency. Expectations for fourth quarter sales are approximately $875 million, consisting of constant currency growth of about 11% and a negative contribution from foreign currency of approximately $16 million or negative 2%. The fourth quarter and second half have one less billing day than prior year.
The Company's diluted earnings per share guidance for the full year is being increased by $0.07 to approximately $2.93 reported and $3.07 adjusted*, representing a 27% increase over prior year. Diluted earnings per share guidance for the third quarter is approximately $0.63 reported and $0.66 adjusted*, representing an 18% adjusted* increase over prior year. Diluted earnings per share guidance for the fourth quarter is approximately $0.83 reported and $0.86 adjusted*, representing a 21% adjusted* increase over prior year. Third and fourth quarter earnings per
 
share guidance assumes continued increases in R&D spending primarily related, but not limited, to biologics, as well as increases in direct to consumer advertising spending related to procedures and technologies, and incremental legal and IT costs. As noted in the Company's June 15, 2005 press release, the Company utilizes forward contracts to hedge the short term effects of foreign currency movement on inter-company sales transactions. As a result, the short term effect of rapid foreign currency exchange rate movements on operating profit dollars is expected to be minimal.
MIS
Conference Call
The Company will conduct its second quarter 2005 investor conference call on Thursday, July 28, 2005, at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The live audio webcast can be accessed via Zimmer's Investor Relations website at . It will be archived for replay following the conference. Individuals who wish to dial into the conference call may do so at (800) 406-1106. International callers should dial (706) 634-7075. A digital recording will be available two hours after the completion of the conference call from July 28, 2005 to August 2, 2005. To access the recording, US/Canada callers should dial (800) 642-1687, or for International callers, dial (706) 645-9291, and enter the Conference ID, 7234528. A copy of this press release and other financial and statistical information about the periods to be presented in the conference call will be accessible through the Zimmer website at .
http://investor.zimmer.com
http://investor.zimmer.com
About the Company
Founded in 1927 and headquartered in Warsaw, Indiana, Zimmer is the worldwide #1 pure-play orthopaedic leader in designing, developing, manufacturing and marketing reconstructive and spinal implants, trauma and related orthopaedic surgical products. Zimmer has operations in more than 24 countries around the world and sells products in more than 100 countries. Zimmer's 2004 sales were approximately $3 billion. The Company is supported by the efforts of more than 6,500 employees worldwide.
 
*Note on Non-GAAP Financial Measures
As used in this press release, the term refers to operating performance measures that exclude acquisition and integration expenses and inventory step-up. The term refers to short-term and long-term debt obligations minus the Company's cash and equivalents and restricted cash. Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure are included in this press release.
"adjusted"
"net debt"
Zimmer Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the orthopaedics industry, management's beliefs and assumptions made by management. The forward-looking statements include sales and diluted earnings per share guidance and other statements identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as "may," "will," "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "targets," "forecasts," and "seeks" or the negative of such terms or other variations on such terms or comparable terminology. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our ability to successfully integrate Centerpulse AG and Implex Corp., the outcome of the Department of Justice investigation announced in March 2005 and the pending informal SEC investigation of Centerpulse accounting, price and product competition, rapid technological development, demographic changes, dependence on new product development, the mix of our products and services, supply and prices of raw materials and products, customer demand for our products and services, control of costs and expenses, our ability to form and implement alliances, international growth, governmental laws and regulations affecting our U.S. and international businesses, including tax obligations and risks, product liability and intellectual property litigation losses, reimbursement levels from third-party payors, general industry and market conditions and growth rates and general domestic and international economic conditions including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations. For a further list and description of such risks and uncertainties, see the disclosure materials filed by Zimmer with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Zimmer disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Readers of this document are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, since, while we believe the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


