FILE:ZMH/ZMH-8K-20051026172031.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
(574) 267-6131
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
     On October 26, 2005, Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (the "Registrant") reported its results of operations for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. The Registrant's earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and the information set forth therein is incorporated herein by reference and constitutes a part of this report.
     As previously announced, the Registrant acquired Centerpulse AG on October 2, 2003 and Implex Corp. on April 23, 2004. The earnings release attached as Exhibit 99.1 includes the operating performance measures of adjusted net earnings, adjusted diluted EPS and projected adjusted diluted EPS which exclude acquisition and integration expenses and inventory step-up. It also includes other non-GAAP financial measures including adjusted net margin, adjusted operating margin, adjusted gross margin and net cash/debt.
     Management believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures allows investors to better understand the operating results of the Registrant. However, these measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, other measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
     All of the non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure in the press release.
     The Registrant is furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibits, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" with the SEC or incorporated by reference into any other filing with the SEC. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, the Registrant makes no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibits.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
     (c) Exhibits
     99.1 Press Release, dated October 26, 2005, issued by the Registrant.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
Contacts:
(WARSAW, IN) October 26, 2005  Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (NYSE and SWX: ZMH) today reported financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. For the quarter, the Company announced net sales of $763 million, an increase of 9%, with negligible contribution from foreign exchange. Diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.67 reported and $0.70 adjusted*, exceeding First Call earnings estimates of $0.67 adjusted*. Reported results include acquisition and integration expenses and inventory step-up, as applicable.
"Similar to the market overall, sales results were mixed, with hip and knee sales delivering slower growth, offset by solid performances in Spine, Dental and Trauma," said Ray Elliott, Zimmer Chairman, President and CEO. "Gross profit margins continued to be strong and in
 
excess of 77% for the third consecutive quarter. Global and U.S. pricing throughout the industry has moderated from 2004, but for Zimmer still contributed positive 1% or better for the third consecutive quarter. With over $230 million of operating cash flow in the quarter, we became net debt* free less than two years after the acquisition of Centerpulse. Our highly leveraged earnings performance demonstrates the strength of Zimmer's business model, which is designed to capitalize on our position as the low-cost producer and distributor while delivering quality earnings on every new sales dollar under a variety of market conditions."
While the Company's Centerpulse integration plan is based on a three-year schedule, approximately 90% of all milestones are expected to be completed by year-end, including the closure of the acquired manufacturing plant in Austin, Texas. The Company reaffirmed its belief that annual synergy expense savings will exceed $100 million in 2006.
The Company noted that during the quarter it continued its leadership in Procedures and Technologies. The first commercial uses of the Portable Navigation Systema low-cost, portable version of its electromagnetic surgical navigation system, took place in multiple U.S. locations. Rush Medical College in Chicago published peer-reviewed results of 50 consecutive total knee replacements using the Zimmer Technique. A total of 48 patients (96%) went home not within 24 hours of surgery, but on the same day. The Company also announced it will release data on more than 2,500 Zimmer Hip Replacement cases in four clinical studies with more than 250 surgeons participating. Overall complication rates were comparable to those reported for traditional procedures. Many surgeons participating in the studies have also reported that offering the procedure has resulted in dramatic increases in procedure growth within their practices.
Minimally Invasive Solutions (MIS)
iNav
,
outpatient
MIS Quad-Sparing
MIS 2-Incision
MIS 2-Incision
"We are pleased that our Spine and Dental businesses, year-to-date, have both exceeded $100 million in sales, and our Trauma business has returned to double-digit sales growth," said Elliott. "We are investing in all three businesses. We are also pursuing future orthobiological solutions as evidenced by our exclusive development and distribution agreement with Revivicor, Inc. for tissue replacement materials and our increased equity position in ISTO Technologies, Inc."
 
The following tables provide sales results by geographic segment and product category, as well as the percent change compared to the prior year quarter and nine months and the impact of changes in foreign exchange rates.
 
 
 
Net earnings for the quarter were $169 million on a reported basis, and were $174 million adjusted*, an increase of 25% adjusted* over the prior year period. Diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.67 reported and were $0.70 adjusted*, an increase of 25% adjusted* over the prior year period.
 
 
 
Net earnings for the nine months were $533 million on a reported basis, and were $560 million adjusted*, an increase of 33% adjusted* over the prior year period. Diluted earnings per share for the nine months were $2.13 reported and were $2.24 adjusted*, an increase of 32% adjusted* over the prior year period. Included in the nine months is approximately $6.5 million of pre-tax income, which was recorded and reported for the second quarter, related primarily to the favorable resolution of certain legal and other matters. These items contributed a little less than $0.02 to diluted earnings per share and are not expected to occur in the future.
Guidance
The Company is updating its guidance for the balance of 2005 to incorporate the results of the third quarter and providing guidance for full year 2006.
Fourth quarter 2005 sales are expected to be in a range of $845 to $850 million. The updated guidance includes the negative contribution of approximately $10 to $11 million from reduced surgical procedures due to Hurricanes Katrina and Rita, which affected several key markets where the Company enjoys an average of more than 50% market share, $21 million of negative foreign currency assuming current foreign currency rates remain consistent through the balance of 2005 and one less billing day compared to the fourth quarter of 2004. The Company has not incorporated any potential effects of Hurricane Wilma into fourth quarter 2005 guidance. Full year 2005 sales expectations of $3,283 to $3,288 million represent approximately 10% growth over prior year. Sales for 2006 are expected to increase in a range of 8% to 9% over 2005. This assumes a 1% reduction due to foreign currency, a 1% reduction due to the loss of the Company's OrthoPAT Blood Management System distribution agreement and a 1% reduction in global pricing. If the Company is successful at replacing its OrthoPAT sales with another product, it will notify investors with expected release dates and incremental sales that can be modeled into 2006.
The Company is reaffirming its full year 2005 earnings per share guidance of $2.93 reported and $3.07 adjusted* previously communicated at the end of the second quarter. Full year 2006 earnings per share are expected to be in a range of $3.54 to $3.61 reported and $3.58 to $3.65 adjusted*, representing growth over 2005 of 17% to 19% adjusted*. As a result of the first half
 
of 2005 being stronger than the second half, and considering that the negative effects on sales growth of foreign currency will be greater in the first half of 2006, the Company's sales and earnings growth are expected to be greater in the second half. The Company will provide quarterly guidance for 2006 when it reports fourth quarter 2005.
Conference Call
The Company will conduct its third quarter 2005 investor conference call on Thursday, October 27, 2005, at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The live audio webcast can be accessed via Zimmer's Investor Relations website at . It will be archived for replay following the conference. Individuals who wish to dial into the conference call may do so at (800) 406-1106. International callers should dial (706) 634-7075. A digital recording will be available two hours after the completion of the conference call from October 27, 2005 to November 1, 2005. To access the recording, US/Canada callers should dial (800) 642-1687, or for International callers, dial (706) 645-9291, and enter the Conference ID, 1067203. A copy of this press release and other financial and statistical information about the periods to be presented in the conference call will be accessible through the Zimmer website at .
http://investor.zimmer.com
http://investor.zimmer.com
About the Company
Founded in 1927 and headquartered in Warsaw, Indiana, Zimmer is the worldwide #1 pure-play orthopaedic leader in designing, developing, manufacturing and marketing reconstructive and spinal implants, trauma and related orthopaedic surgical products. Zimmer has operations in more than 24 countries around the world and sells products in more than 100 countries. Zimmer's 2004 sales were approximately $3 billion. The Company is supported by the efforts of more than 6,500 employees worldwide.
 
*Note on Non-GAAP Financial Measures
As used in this press release, the term refers to operating performance measures that exclude acquisition and integration expenses and inventory step-up. The term refers to short-term and long-term debt obligations minus the Company's cash and equivalents and restricted cash. Reconciliations of non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure are included in this press release.
"adjusted"
"net debt"
Zimmer Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the orthopaedics industry, management's beliefs and assumptions made by management. The forward-looking statements include sales and diluted earnings per share guidance and other statements identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as "may," "will," "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "assumes," "guides," "targets," "forecasts," and "seeks" or the negative of such terms or other variations on such terms or comparable terminology. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our ability to successfully integrate Centerpulse AG and Implex Corp., the outcome of the Department of Justice investigation announced in March 2005 and the pending informal SEC investigation of Centerpulse accounting, price and product competition, rapid technological development, demographic changes, dependence on new product development, the mix of our products and services, supply and prices of raw materials and products, customer demand for our products and services, control of costs and expenses, our ability to form and implement alliances, international growth, governmental laws and regulations affecting our U.S. and international businesses, including tax obligations and risks, product liability and intellectual property litigation losses, reimbursement levels from third-party payors, general industry and market conditions and growth rates and general domestic and international economic conditions including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations. For a further list and description of such risks and uncertainties, see the disclosure materials filed by Zimmer with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Zimmer disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Readers of this document are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, since, while we believe the assumptions on which the forward- looking statements are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Projected Year Ended December 31, 2005:
Projected Year Ended December 31, 2006:


