FILE:ZMH/ZMH-8K-20061115171805.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
     On November 15, 2006, Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (the "Company") announced that its board of directors intends to recommend amendments to the Company's restated certificate of incorporation to declassify its board structure at the annual meeting of stockholders in May 2007.
     The Company's current restated certificate of incorporation divides the directors into three classes, with directors elected to staggered three-year terms. If the proposal is approved by more than 80 percent of the Company's outstanding shares, beginning with the following annual meeting, directors will be elected to serve one-year terms.
     A copy of the press release announcing the board of directors' intentions is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: November 15, 2006
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Contacts:
(WARSAW, IND) November 15, 2006  Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (NYSE and SWX:ZMH) announced today that, at the next annual meeting of stockholders, its Board of Directors will recommend an amendment to the Company's charter to declassify its board structure.
The Company's Board of Directors is currently divided into three classes, with directors in each class serving staggered three-year terms. If the proposal is approved by more than 80 percent of the Company's outstanding shares, then directors elected after 2007 will serve annual terms.
J. Raymond Elliott, Chairman of the Board of Directors and President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, commented, "The Board is aware of the continuing interest in the way companies elect their boards. A stockholder proposal to declassify our Board received support at our last annual meeting, although not at the level required to amend our charter. This proposal, and the recently announced change to our by-laws providing for majority voting for election of directors, clearly demonstrate the Board's commitment to following best practices in today's corporate governance environment."
Additional information regarding the Company's corporate governance is available at
http://investor.zimmer.com/governance.cfm.
Founded in 1927 and headquartered in Warsaw, Indiana, Zimmer is the worldwide #1 pure-play orthopaedic leader in designing, developing, manufacturing and marketing
About the Company
 
reconstructive and spinal implants, trauma and related orthopaedic surgical products. Zimmer has operations in more than 24 countries around the world and sells products in more than 100 countries. Zimmer's 2005 sales were approximately $3.3 billion. The Company is supported by the efforts of more than 6,700 employees worldwide.
Zimmer Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the orthopaedics industry, management's beliefs and assumptions made by management. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as "may," "will," "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "assumes," "guides," "targets," "forecasts," and "seeks" or the negative of such terms or other variations on such terms or comparable terminology. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, the outcome of the Department of Justice investigations announced in March 2005 and June 2006, price and product competition, rapid technological development, demographic changes, dependence on new product development, the mix of our products and services, supply and prices of raw materials and products, customer demand for our products and services, control of costs and expenses, our ability to form and implement alliances, international growth, governmental laws and regulations affecting our U.S. and international businesses, including tax obligations and risks, product liability and intellectual property litigation losses, reimbursement levels from third-party payors, general industry and market conditions and growth rates and general domestic and international economic conditions including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations. For a further list and description of such risks and uncertainties, see our periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We disclaim any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be set forth in our periodic reports. Readers of this document are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, since, while we believe the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.


