FILE:ZMH/ZMH-8K-20060918171518.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
     On September 14, 2006 and upon the recommendation of the Corporate Governance Committee, the Board of Directors of Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (the "Company") approved and adopted an amendment (the "Amendment") to the Company's Restated By-Laws (the "By-Laws"). The Amendment amends Section 2.08 of the By-Laws to change the voting standard for the election of directors from a plurality to a majority of the votes cast in uncontested elections. A "majority of the votes cast" means that the number of shares voted "for" a director must exceed the number of votes cast "against" the director. In contested elections, where the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, the vote standard will continue to be a plurality of votes cast.
     The By-Laws as amended also include a director resignation policy which will apply in the event that an incumbent director is not reelected. In such event, the director will be required to tender his or her resignation to the Board of Directors, subject to acceptance by the Board of Directors. The Corporate Governance Committee of the Board of Directors will evaluate the resignation in light of the best interests of the Company and its stockholders and will make a recommendation to the Board of Directors on whether to accept or reject the resignation or whether other action should be taken. The Board of Directors will act on the recommendation of the Corporate Governance Committee and will publicly disclose its decision and the rationale behind it within 90 days from the date of the certification of election results. The director who tenders his or her resignation will not participate in the recommendation of the Corporate Governance Committee or the decision of the Board of Directors.
     The Amendment is effective as of September 14, 2006 and is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1. In addition, a copy of the press release announcing the Board of Directors' adoption of a majority voting standard for director elections is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: September 18, 2006
 

 
Exhibit 3.1
     Article II, Section 2.08 of the By-Laws is, effective immediately, hereby amended and restated in its entirety to read as follows:
     SECTION 2.08. Procedure for Election of Directors; Required Vote.
     (a) Election of Directors. Election of Directors at all meetings of the stockholders at which Directors are to be elected shall be by ballot. Subject to the rights of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect Directors under an applicable Preferred Stock Designation, and except as provided in this Section 2.08(a), each Director shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast with respect to that Director's election at any meeting for the election of Directors at which a quorum is present; provided, however, that if the number of nominees exceeds the number of Directors to be elected, the Directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the shares represented in person or by proxy at any such meeting and entitled to vote on the election of Directors. For purposes of this Section 2.08(a), a majority of votes cast shall mean that the number of shares voted "for" a Director's election exceeds the number of votes cast "against" that Director's election. If a nominee for Director is not elected and the nominee is an incumbent Director, the Director shall promptly tender his or her resignation to the Board of Directors, subject to acceptance by the Board of Directors. The Corporate Governance Committee will make a recommendation to the Board of Directors as to whether to accept or reject the tendered resignation, or whether other action should be taken. The Board of Directors will act on the tendered resignation, taking into account the Corporate Governance Committee's recommendation, and publicly disclose (by a press release, a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission or other broadly disseminated means of communication) its decision regarding the tendered resignation and the rationale behind the decision within 90 days from the date of the certification of the election results. The Corporate Governance Committee in making its recommendation and the Board of Directors in making its decision may each consider any factors or other information that they consider appropriate and relevant. The Director who tenders his or her resignation will not participate in the recommendation of the Corporate Governance Committee or the decision of the Board of Directors with respect to his or her resignation. If such incumbent
 
Director's resignation is not accepted by the Board of Directors, such Director shall continue to serve until the next annual meeting and until his or her successor is duly elected, or his or her earlier resignation or removal. If a Director's resignation is accepted by the Board of Directors pursuant to this Section 2.08(a), or if a nominee for Director is not elected and the nominee is not an incumbent Director, then the Board of Directors may fill the resulting vacancy pursuant to the provisions of Section 7.03 of the Certificate of Incorporation or may decrease the size of the Board of Directors pursuant to the provisions of Section 7.01 of the Certificate of Incorporation.
     (b) Other Matters. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation, a Preferred Stock Designation, applicable stock exchange rules or other rules and regulations applicable to the Corporation or these By-Laws, in all matters other than the election of Directors, the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting power of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the matter shall be the act of the stockholders.

 
Exhibit 99.1
(WARSAW, IND) September 18, 2006  Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (NYSE and SWX:ZMH) announced today that its Board of Directors has amended the company's By-Laws to adopt a majority vote standard for the election of directors in uncontested elections. Previously, directors were elected under a plurality vote standard, meaning the candidates receiving the most votes would win without regard to whether those votes constituted a majority of the shares voting at the meeting. Contested elections (where there are more nominees than directors to be elected) will continue to use the plurality vote standard.
The By-Laws as amended also include a director resignation policy which will require an incumbent director who does not receive a majority of the votes cast to tender his or her resignation to the Board of Directors, subject to acceptance by the Board of Directors. The Corporate Governance Committee will evaluate the tendered resignation and will make a recommendation to the Board of Directors on whether to accept or reject the resignation or whether other action should be taken. The Board of Directors will publicly disclose its decision and the rationale behind it within 90 days of the certification of election results.
The Board of Directors has also amended the company's Corporate Governance Guidelines to incorporate the director resignation policy.
Additional information regarding the Company's corporate governance is available at
http://investor.zimmer.com/governance.cfm
 
About the Company
Founded in 1927 and headquartered in Warsaw, Indiana, Zimmer is the worldwide #1 pure-play orthopaedic leader in designing, developing, manufacturing and marketing reconstructive and spinal implants, trauma and related orthopaedic surgical products. Zimmer has operations in more than 24 countries around the world and sells products in more than 100 countries. Zimmer's 2005 sales were approximately $3.3 billion. The Company is supported by the efforts of more than 6,700 employees worldwide.
Zimmer Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the orthopaedics industry, management's beliefs and assumptions made by management. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as "may," "will," "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "assumes," "guides," "targets," "forecasts," and "seeks" or the negative of such terms or other variations on such terms or comparable terminology. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, the outcome of the Department of Justice investigations announced in March 2005 and June 2006, price and product competition, rapid technological development, demographic changes, dependence on new product development, the mix of our products and services, supply and prices of raw materials and products, customer demand for our products and services, control of costs and expenses, our ability to form and implement alliances, international growth, governmental laws and regulations affecting our U.S. and international businesses, including tax obligations and risks, product liability and intellectual property litigation losses, reimbursement levels from third-party payors, general industry and market conditions and growth rates and general domestic and international economic conditions including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations. For a further list and description of such risks and uncertainties, see our periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We disclaim any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be set forth in our periodic reports. Readers of this document are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, since, while we believe the assumptions on which the forward- looking statements
 
are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.


