FILE:ZMH/ZMH-8K-20060426172740.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
     On April 26, 2006, Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (the "Registrant") reported its results of operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2006. The Registrant's earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and the information set forth therein is incorporated herein by reference and constitutes a part of this report.
     As previously announced, the Registrant acquired Centerpulse AG on October 2, 2003 and Implex Corp. on April 23, 2004. The earnings release attached as Exhibit 99.1 includes the operating performance measures of adjusted net earnings, adjusted diluted EPS and projected adjusted diluted EPS which exclude acquisition and integration expenses and inventory step-up. It also includes other non-GAAP financial measures including adjusted net margin, adjusted operating margin and adjusted gross margin.
     In addition, since this is the first quarter that the Registrant's financial results include share-based payment from the adoption of the new accounting standard, SFAS 123(R), "Share-Based Payment", the Registrant has disclosed certain of the adjusted non-GAAP financial measures referred to above excluding the effect of share-based payment under SFAS 123(R) to allow for a better comparison of results in the current period to those in prior periods that did not include SFAS 123(R) share-based payment. The Registrant has historically reported these adjusted non-GAAP financial measures and believes that presenting the adjusted non-GAAP financial measures on a historical basis excluding the effect of share-based payment enhances the comparability of results against prior periods.
     The Registrant also reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of constant currency sales. Constant currency results are calculated by translating actual current and prior-year sales at the same predetermined exchange rates. The translated results are then used to determine year-over-year percentage increases or decreases that exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Constant currency sales as defined and presented by the Registrant may not be comparable to similar measures reported by other companies.
     Management believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures allows investors to more easily compare the Registrant's performance on a period to period basis. It also aids investors in understanding the operating results of the Registrant absent the specific acquisition-related items detailed above and provides further comparative information due to the impact of adopting SFAS 123(R). However, these measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, other measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
     All of the non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure in the press release.
     The Registrant is furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibits, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" with the SEC or incorporated by reference into any other filing with the SEC. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, the Registrant makes no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibits.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
Contacts:
(WARSAW, IN) April 26, 2006  Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (NYSE and SWX: ZMH) today reported financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2006. For the quarter, the Company announced net sales of $860 million, an increase of 4% reported and 7% constant currency. Diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.82 reported and $0.82 adjusted, exceeding First Call earnings estimates of $0.81 adjusted.
Reported and adjusted earnings per share for the first quarter of 2006 include a $0.05 per diluted share impact related to SFAS 123(R), Share-Based Payment. Effective January 1, 2006, the
 
Company adopted this new accounting standard using the modified-prospective method. In accordance with this adoption method, the Company is not adjusting its historical financial statements to reflect the impact of share-based payment. Excluding the impact of , adjusted earnings per share for the first quarter were $0.87, representing a 16% increase over adjusted earnings per share for the first quarter of 2005.
SFAS 123(R)
"Constant currency sales were a little light at 7% growth versus our expectation of 8%however, the interest shown by surgeons at the AAOS meeting and our progress towards launching an unprecedented number of major new products throughout the second half of this year confirms our optimism," said Ray Elliott, Zimmer Chairman, President and CEO. "We believe we have the right strategy for innovation, and our position as the low cost orthopaedic manufacturer and distributor should enable us to continue generating unmatched operating leverage and operating cash flow."
At the 2006 AAOS meeting, Zimmer announced the launch of a number of new products the Company believes will accelerate sales growth. Included in the products which have been or are expected to be launched over the next two quarters are:  Primary Hip Prosthesis; Acetabular Revision System; Acetabular Cup with Large Diameter Heads; Composite Hip Stem; Ceramic-on-Ceramic Acetabular System*; Reverse and Inverse  Shoulder Systems;  Femoral Nailing Solutions; Plating System; Thoracolumbar Components; and  Bone Void Filler Sponge.
Trabecular Metal
Trabecular Metal
Durom
Metasul LDH
Epoch
II
Trilogy AB
Zimmer
Anatomical
Zimmer Minimally Invasive Solutions
Zimmer NCB
Trabecular Metal
CopiOs
As a result of five years of intensive research based on an analysis of 800 female femurs (thigh bones) and patellae (knee caps), the Company previously announced the planned release of the Knee Femoral Implant*, which it believes is the first knee implant system designed specifically to address the unique anatomical needs of women. A woman's knee anatomy is quite distinguishable from a man's, including a difference in the ratio between the width and height of the distal (bottom of the) femur as compared to men, Q-angle (the V-shaped angle created by two lines intersecting at the patella, one through the quadriceps and the other to
Gender Solutions
 
an outer point of the pelvis) differences due to a wider pelvis, less pronounced bony anatomy on the anterior (front) surface of their distal femur and greater ligament laxity. These differences in shape, not just size, have been incorporated into the design of Zimmer implants and the development of the surgical technique.
Gender Solutions
"We believe women are a significant key to the future of orthopaedics because they represent the majority of the implant patients and because they are also typically the primary healthcare decision makers in their households," said Elliott. "We have filed for regulatory approval of the implant to address women's specific needs and we hope to offer these products by the second half of this year. Today's knee implants are very successful when failure is defined by a revisionbut our offering is designed to reduce the industry's real instances of pain and post-surgical dissatisfaction among women."
Gender Solutions
Gender Solutions
With the progress made in integrating Centerpulse AG and Implex Corp., the Company believes it is well-positioned to pursue additional acquisitions in the areas of biologics, dental, spine and hospital productivity consulting. The Company expects funding of acquisitions will continue to be its primary use of free cash flow.
The following table provides sales results by geographic segment and product category, as well as the percent change compared to the prior year quarter on both a reported and constant currency basis.
 
Net earnings for the quarter were $206 million on a reported basis, and were $205 million adjusted. Included in reported and adjusted earnings for the first quarter of 2006 is $13 million
 
of after tax expense due to the January 1, 2006 adoption of SFAS 123(R), Share-Based Payment. First quarter adjusted net earnings, excluding the effect of share-based payment, were $218 million, a 17% increase over the first quarter of 2005.
The Company is reaffirming its previous sales guidance for the second quarter and the second half of 2006. Second quarter sales are expected to increase 5% to 6% and second half sales are expected to increase 10% to 11% over prior year. First Call estimates are consistent with these growth rates.
Guidance
The Company is also reaffirming its guidance for adjusted earnings per share, including the impact of SFAS 123(R), Share-Based Payment, for the first half of 2006 to be $1.63 to $1.64. The first quarter was $0.01 over the top end of the Company's guidance range, and consequently, adjusted earnings per share for the second quarter are expected to be $0.81 to $0.82. Sales are expected to be greater in the fourth quarter than in the third as a result of continued introduction of new products throughout the year, as well as seasonality. Similar to 2005, Zimmer expects approximately 21% to 22% of full-year adjusted earnings per share in the third quarter and approximately 28% to 29% in the fourth quarter. Therefore, adjusted earnings per share are expected to be approximately $0.76 in the third quarter and approximately $1.00 in the fourth quarter. Full year 2006 adjusted earnings per share guidance is approximately $3.40, which is the midpoint of the Company's previously provided guidance range of $3.37 to $3.43. The $3.40 is consistent with existing First Call estimates.
The Company will conduct its first quarter 2006 investor conference call on Thursday, April 27, 2006, at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The live audio webcast can be accessed via Zimmer's Investor Relations website at . It will be archived for replay following the conference.
Conference Call
http://investor.zimmer.com
 
Individuals who wish to dial into the conference call may do so at (800) 406-1106. International callers should dial (706) 634-7075. A digital recording will be available two hours after the completion of the conference call from April 27, 2006 to April 30, 2006. To access the recording, US/Canada callers should dial (800) 642-1687, or for International callers, dial (706) 645-9291, and enter the Conference ID, 7685015. A copy of this press release and other financial and statistical information about the periods to be presented in the conference call will be accessible through the Zimmer website at .
http://investor.zimmer.com
*Releases subject to regulatory approvals
Founded in 1927 and headquartered in Warsaw, Indiana, Zimmer is the worldwide #1 pure-play orthopaedic leader in designing, developing, manufacturing and marketing reconstructive and spinal implants, trauma and related orthopaedic surgical products. Zimmer has operations in more than 24 countries around the world and sells products in more than 100 countries. Zimmer's 2005 sales were approximately $3.3 billion. The Company is supported by the efforts of more than 6,700 employees worldwide.
About the Company
Note on Non-GAAP Financial Measures
As used in this press release, the term refers to operating performance measures that exclude acquisition, integration and other expenses and inventory step-up. This press release also reflects adjusted performance measures excluding the effect of share-based payment, which is also a non-GAAP financial measure. The term "" refers to any financial measure that excludes the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure are included in this press release.
"adjusted"
constant currency
 
Zimmer Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the orthopaedics industry, management's beliefs and assumptions made by management. The forward-looking statements include sales and diluted earnings per share guidance and other statements identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as "may," "will," "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "assumes," "guides," "targets," "forecasts," and "seeks" or the negative of such terms or other variations on such terms or comparable terminology. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our ability to successfully integrate Centerpulse AG and Implex Corp., the outcome of the Department of Justice investigation announced in March 2005, price and product competition, rapid technological development, demographic changes, dependence on new product development, the mix of our products and services, supply and prices of raw materials and products, customer demand for our products and services, control of costs and expenses, our ability to form and implement alliances, international growth, governmental laws and regulations affecting our U.S. and international businesses, including tax obligations and risks, product liability and intellectual property litigation losses, reimbursement levels from third-party payors, general industry and market conditions and growth rates and general domestic and international economic conditions including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations. For a further list and description of such risks and uncertainties, see the disclosure materials filed by Zimmer with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Zimmer disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Readers of this document are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, since, while we believe the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


