FILE:ZMH/ZMH-8K-20060726164405.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
     On July 26, 2006, Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (the "Registrant") reported its results of operations for the quarter ended June 30, 2006. The Registrant's earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and the information set forth therein is incorporated herein by reference and constitutes a part of this report.
     As previously announced, the Registrant acquired Centerpulse AG on October 2, 2003 and Implex Corp. on April 23, 2004. The earnings release attached as Exhibit 99.1 includes the operating performance measures of adjusted net earnings, adjusted diluted EPS and projected adjusted diluted EPS which exclude acquisition and integration expenses and inventory step-up. It also includes other non-GAAP financial measures including adjusted net margin, adjusted operating margin and adjusted gross margin.
     In addition, the Registrant's financial results include share-based payment from the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard ("SFAS") No. 123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment" ("SFAS 123(R)"). The Registrant has disclosed certain of the adjusted non-GAAP financial measures referred to above excluding the effect of share-based payment under SFAS 123(R) to allow for a better comparison of results in the current period to those in prior periods that did not include SFAS 123(R) share-based payment. The Registrant has historically reported these adjusted non-GAAP financial measures and believes that presenting the adjusted non-GAAP financial measures for the three and six month periods ended June 30, 2006 excluding the effect of share-based payment enhances the comparability of results against prior periods.
     The Registrant also reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of constant currency sales. Constant currency results are calculated by translating actual current and prior-year sales at the same predetermined exchange rates. The translated results are then used to determine year-over-year percentage increases or decreases that exclude the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Constant currency sales as defined and presented by the Registrant may not be comparable to similar measures reported by other companies.
     Management believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures allows investors to more easily compare the Registrant's performance on a period to period basis. It also aids investors in understanding the operating results of the Registrant absent the specific acquisition-related items detailed above and provides further comparative information due to the effect of adopting SFAS 123(R). However, these measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, other measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
     All of the non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure in the press release.
     The Registrant is furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibits, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" with the SEC or incorporated by reference into any other filing with the SEC. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, the Registrant makes no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibits.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
Contacts:
(WARSAW, IN) July 26, 2006  Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (NYSE and SWX: ZMH) today reported financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2006. For the quarter, the Company announced net sales of $882 million, an increase of 4% reported and 5% constant currency. Diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.81 reported and $0.83 adjusted, exceeding First Call earnings estimates of $0.82 adjusted.
 
Reported and adjusted diluted earnings per share for the second quarter of 2006 include a $0.06 per diluted share impact related to , Share-Based Payment. Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted this new accounting standard using the modified-prospective method. In accordance with this adoption method, the Company is not adjusting its historical financial statements to reflect the impact of share-based payment. Excluding the impact of SFAS 123(R), adjusted diluted earnings per share for the second quarter were $0.89, representing an 11% increase over adjusted diluted earnings per share for the second quarter of 2005.
SFAS 123(R)
"Our sales results were consistent with what the overall orthopaedic market has seen, and as expected, for us, similar to the first quarter," said Ray Elliott, Zimmer Chairman, President and CEO. "We have made substantial progress in key strategic areas, including important additions to our joint reconstruction offering with two new alternate bearing options and the world's first knee replacement designed for the unique characteristics of a woman's anatomythe  Knee Implant. We also achieved a significant biologics milestone with the approval of the U.S. IND application for Neocartilage and launched our entry into hospital profitability consulting with the acquisition of the brand."
Zimmer Gender Solutions
Human Motion Institute
SM
The Company introduced its knee implant in May. Initial implantations were limited to the system's surgeon developers, but the product will be released to a wider surgeon audience in the fall. Media efforts have already resulted in approximately 500 articles and stories, which have generated more than 80 million exposures. "As we roll out the product more broadly to additional surgeons, we will be launching targeted nationwide publicity campaigns to increase women's awareness of this therapeutic option," said Elliott.
Gender Solutions
Gender Solutions
In June, the Company launched the Acetabular Cup with Large Diameter Heads, filling an important offering in the metal-on-metal hip replacement category. The Company also gained regulatory approval to market the Ceramic-on-Ceramic Acetabular System, which was launched last week.
Durom
Metasul LDH
Trilogy AB
During the quarter, the Company finalized its acquisition of Musculoskeletal Management Systems, LLC (MMS). MMS, which is better known as the (HMI), has
Human Motion Institute
 
established several long term service agreements with various hospitals throughout the United States. HMI provides focused consulting services which help its member institutions not only design but implement and manage successful orthopaedic programs of distinction. "Our overall goal, which HMI will support in the field, is to identify opportunities to create long-term, permanent cost savings that extend beyond the historic cost-shifting that goes with year-to-year implant pricing negotiations," said Elliott. "Savings solutions are available and we intend to be the leader in making them a reality."
In the second quarter, Zimmer Holdings invested $309 million to repurchase almost five million common shares as part of an authorized $1 billion program. "Our primary use of excess cash will continue to be strategic acquisitions in the areas of Biologics, Dental and Spine," said Elliott. "However, until we finalize such acquisitions, we expect to use the share buyback program to deploy cash opportunistically to build shareholder value."
Antitrust Investigation Update
On June 23, 2006, the Company received a subpoena from the Antitrust Division of the U.S. Department of Justice. Four of Zimmer's competitors also have announced that they received subpoenas pertaining to the same antitrust investigation.
It is the Company's belief that the following events gave rise to the Antitrust Division's investigation. In the fall of 2005, a single hospital conducted a bid process for orthopaedic implant pricing. As part of that process, a representative of the hospital sent an e-mail containing the hospital's proposal to the local representatives of various orthopaedic companies, including Zimmer's local independent distributor.
Upon receipt of that e-mail, a representative of one of Zimmer's competitors sent an unsolicited message to the same group of competitors that received the hospital's original message. The competitor's e-mail proposed that the orthopaedic companies adopt a uniform pricing strategy in responding to this hospital.
 
When Zimmer learned of the competitor's proposal, the Company advised its local independent distributor to reject it on behalf of both the distributor and Zimmer, which the distributor did. The written rejection stated emphatically that neither Zimmer nor its distributors will participate in pricing discussions with competitors and that Zimmer's policies insist on full compliance with the antitrust laws.
Throughout the fall and winter, Zimmer continued to engage in its own one-on-one pricing negotiations with the hospital, and successfully concluded a new Zimmer-specific pricing arrangement in early 2006.
Zimmer is cooperating fully with the Antitrust Division's investigation and will continue to do so. Zimmer noted that the information it is providing today about the investigation is limited to the specific incident described and that it can offer no assurances as to the final outcome of this investigation. In light of the ongoing nature of the investigation, Zimmer says that providing this information should not be construed as an intention on the Company's part to provide further updates except as legally required.
Sales Tables
The following tables provide sales results by geographic segment and product category, as well as the percent change compared to the prior year quarter and six months on both a reported and constant currency basis.
 
Net earnings for the quarter were $201 million on a reported basis, and were $206 million adjusted. Included in adjusted earnings for the second quarter of 2006 is $14 million of after tax
 
expense due to the January 1, 2006 adoption of SFAS 123(R), Share-Based Payment. Second quarter adjusted net earnings, excluding the effect of share-based payment, were $220 million, a 10% increase over the second quarter of 2005.
 
Net earnings for the six months were $407 million on a reported basis, and were $411 million adjusted, an increase of 6% adjusted over the prior year period. Included in adjusted earnings for
 
the first six months of 2006 is $27 million of after tax expense due to the January 1, 2006 adoption of SFAS 123(R), Share-Based Payment. First six months 2006 adjusted net earnings, excluding the effect of share-based payment, were $438 million, a 13% increase over the first six months of 2005.
Guidance
The Company is reaffirming its previous sales guidance ranges for the third and fourth quarter of 2006. Consistent with previous guidance, both quarters are expected to increase 10% to 11% over prior year.
Previous guidance for adjusted diluted earnings per share was $0.76 in the third quarter and approximately $1.00 in the fourth quarter. As a result of increased activities related to legal matters, the Company is reducing adjusted diluted earnings per share guidance by $0.01 in each remaining quarter of 2006. Therefore, adjusted diluted earnings per share are expected to be approximately $0.75 and $0.99 in the third and fourth quarters respectively.
Conference Call
The Company will conduct its second quarter 2006 investor conference call on Thursday, July 27, 2006, at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The live audio webcast can be accessed via Zimmer's Investor Relations website at It will be archived for replay following the conference.
http://investor.zimmer.com.
Individuals who wish to dial into the conference call may do so at (800) 406-1106. International callers should dial (706) 634-7075. A digital recording will be available two hours after the completion of the conference call from July 27, 2006 to July 31, 2006. To access the recording, US/Canada callers should dial (800) 642-1687, or for International callers, dial (706) 645-9291, and enter the Conference ID, 2012778. A copy of this press release and other financial and statistical information about the periods to be presented in the conference call will be accessible through the Zimmer website at
http://investor.zimmer.com.
 
About the Company
Founded in 1927 and headquartered in Warsaw, Indiana, Zimmer is the worldwide #1 pure-play orthopaedic leader in designing, developing, manufacturing and marketing reconstructive and spinal implants, trauma and related orthopaedic surgical products. Zimmer has operations in more than 24 countries around the world and sells products in more than 100 countries. Zimmer's 2005 sales were approximately $3.3 billion. The Company is supported by the efforts of more than 6,700 employees worldwide.
Note on Non-GAAP Financial Measures
As used in this press release, the term refers to operating performance measures that exclude acquisition, integration and other expenses and inventory step-up. This press release also includes adjusted performance measures that exclude the effect of share-based payment, which is also a non-GAAP financial measure. The term "" refers to any financial measure that excludes the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure are included in this press release.
"adjusted"
constant currency
Zimmer Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the orthopaedics industry, management's beliefs and assumptions made by management. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as "may," "will," "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "assumes," "guides," "targets," "forecasts," and "seeks" or the negative of such terms or other variations on such terms or comparable terminology. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, the outcome of the Department of Justice investigations announced in March 2005
 
and June 2006, price and product competition, rapid technological development, demographic changes, dependence on new product development, the mix of our products and services, supply and prices of raw materials and products, customer demand for our products and services, control of costs and expenses, our ability to form and implement alliances, international growth, governmental laws and regulations affecting our U.S. and international businesses, including tax obligations and risks, product liability and intellectual property litigation losses, reimbursement levels from third-party payors, general industry and market conditions and growth rates and general domestic and international economic conditions including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations. For a further list and description of such risks and uncertainties, see our periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We disclaim any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be set forth in our periodic reports. Readers of this document are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, since, while we believe the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document .
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


