FILE:ZMH/ZMH-8K-20061025171554.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
     On October 25, 2006, Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (the "Registrant") reported its results of operations for the quarter ended September 30, 2006. The Registrant's earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and the information set forth therein is incorporated herein by reference and constitutes a part of this report.
     As previously announced, the Registrant acquired Centerpulse AG on October 2, 2003 and Implex Corp. on April 23, 2004. The earnings release attached as Exhibit 99.1 includes the operating performance measures of adjusted net earnings, adjusted diluted EPS and projected adjusted diluted EPS which exclude acquisition and integration expenses and inventory step-up. It also includes other non-GAAP financial measures including adjusted net margin, adjusted operating margin and adjusted gross margin.
     In addition, the Registrant's financial results include share-based payment from the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standard ("SFAS") No. 123 (revised 2004), "Share-Based Payment" ("SFAS 123(R)"). The Registrant has disclosed certain of the adjusted non-GAAP financial measures referred to above excluding the effect of share-based payment under SFAS 123(R) to allow for a better comparison of results in the current period to those in prior periods that did not include SFAS 123(R) share-based payment. The Registrant has historically reported these adjusted non-GAAP financial measures and believes that presenting the adjusted non-GAAP financial measures for the three and nine month periods ended September 30, 2006 excluding the effect of share-based payment enhances the comparability of results against prior periods.
     The Registrant also reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of constant currency sales. Constant currency results are calculated by translating actual current and prior-year sales at the same predetermined exchange rates. The translated results are then used to determine year-over-year percentage increases or decreases that exclude the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Constant currency sales as defined and presented by the Registrant may not be comparable to similar measures reported by other companies.
     Management believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures allows investors to more easily compare the Registrant's performance on a period to period basis. It also aids investors in understanding the operating results of the Registrant absent the specific acquisition-related items detailed above and provides further comparative information due to the effect of adopting SFAS 123(R). However, these measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, other measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
     All of the non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure in the press release.
     The Registrant is furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibits, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" with the SEC or incorporated by reference into any other filing with the SEC. By filing this report on Form 8-K
 
and furnishing this information, the Registrant makes no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibits.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 25, 2006
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
(WARSAW, IN) October 25, 2006  Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (NYSE and SWX: ZMH) today reported financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2006. For the quarter, the Company announced net sales of $820 million, an increase of 8% reported and 7% constant currency over the prior year period. Diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.76 reported and $0.77 adjusted, exceeding First Call earnings estimates of $0.75 adjusted.
 
Reported and adjusted diluted earnings per share for the third quarter of 2006 include a $0.05 per diluted share impact related to SFAS 123(R), Share-Based Payment. Effective January 1, 2006, the Company adopted this new accounting standard using the modified-prospective method. In accordance with this adoption method, the Company is not adjusting its historical financial statements to reflect the impact of share-based payment. Excluding the impact of SFAS 123(R), adjusted diluted earnings per share for the third quarter were $0.82, representing a 17% increase over adjusted diluted earnings per share for the third quarter of 2005. Excluding the impact of SFAS 123(R), adjusted diluted earnings per share for the first nine months of 2006 were $2.58, representing a 15% increase over adjusted diluted earnings per share for the first nine months of 2005.
"We were pleased to exceed our earnings guidance even though sales were not as strong as previously forecasted," said Ray Elliott, Zimmer Chairman, President and CEO. "We have been about a quarter behind all year relative to anticipated sales growth rates, however, the third quarter was stronger than the second and we expect the fourth to be stronger than the third. The trends continue to be positiveduring the month of September, on a day-rate basis, the combined Americas hip and knee growth was more than 12 percent, and during the third quarter, our entire Asia Pacific business grew double digit constant currency."
The Company said the Knee is being very well received by surgeons and patients. The Company introduced its knee implant in May as part of an overall strategy to address gender-specific orthopaedic issues. Initial implant and provisional sets were provided only to surgeon developers. Product availability continues to expand and the Company expects to have over 1,200 sets deployed to the market by year-end 2006. Women currently account for more than 60 percent of all knee replacements yet, until the release of the knee, no product has ever specifically addressed all of the clinically relevant anatomical differences between men and women. Zimmer launched its first-ever major direct-to-patient marketing program earlier this month featuring "The Blue Ladies" by artist R. O. Blechman (of magazine fame). Targeted television and print advertising has been added to a public relations program that had already generated more than 100 million media impressions since June.
Zimmer
Gender Solutions
Gender Solutions
Gender Solutions
The New Yorker
 
During the quarter, the Company also expanded the release of two important hip products in the alternate bearing category: the Acetabular Cup with Large Diameter Heads; and the Ceramic-on-Ceramic Acetabular System. "With our array of new products, which also includes the exclusive Primary Hip Prosthesis and the II Composite Hip Stem, we are well positioned for 2007 to address a wide spectrum of surgeon preferences and patient requirements," said Elliott.
Durom
Metasul LDH
Trilogy AB
Trabecular Metal
EPOCH
The Company says it has substantially completed the integration of Centerpulse AG, which it acquired on October 3, 2003, completing over 3,000 milestones, with only a few manufacturing, distribution and information technology projects to be carried into 2007. The Company said it has already realized annual synergies of more than $100 million, exceeding the originally projected $70 to $90 million, and additional synergies should be realized in 2007. "We are pleased with the spirit and dedication shown by all of our employees during this process and we are now moving ahead as one fully integrated global company," said Elliott.
In the third quarter, Zimmer purchased 4.8 million common shares for a total of $314 million as part of its $1 billion repurchase program announced in 2006. There is $365 million still available through the end of 2007.
Sales Tables
The following tables provide sales results by geographic segment and product category, as well as the percentage change compared to the prior year quarter and nine months on both a reported and constant currency basis.
 
 
 
Net earnings for the third quarter were $183 million on a reported basis, and were $187 million adjusted. Included in adjusted earnings for the third quarter of 2006 is $12 million of after tax expense due to the January 1, 2006 adoption of SFAS 123(R), Share-Based Payment. Third quarter adjusted net earnings, excluding the effect of share-based payment, were $199 million, a 14% increase over the third quarter of 2005.
Net earnings for the first nine months of 2006 were $590 million on a reported basis, and were $598 million adjusted, an increase of 7% adjusted over the prior year period. Included in adjusted earnings for the first nine months of 2006 is $39 million of after tax expense due to the January 1, 2006 adoption of SFAS 123(R), Share-Based Payment. First nine months 2006 adjusted net earnings, excluding the effect of share-based payment, were $637 million, a 14% increase over the first nine months of 2005.
Guidance
The Company is revising its previous sales guidance for the fourth quarter of 2006 to a range of $922 million to $932 million, which represents a 9% to 10% increase over the prior year. It is also reaffirming its previous adjusted diluted earnings per share guidance of $0.99 for the same period.
Conference Call
The Company will conduct its third quarter 2006 investor conference call on Thursday, October 26, 2006, at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The live audio webcast can be accessed via Zimmer's Investor Relations website at http://investor.zimmer.com. It will be archived for replay following the conference.
Individuals who wish to dial into the conference call may do so at (800) 406-1106. International callers should dial (706) 634-7075. A digital recording will be available two hours after the completion of the conference call from October 26, 2006 to November 9, 2006. To access the recording, US/Canada callers should dial (800) 642-1687, or for International callers, dial (706) 645-9291, and enter the Conference ID, 8092596. A copy of this press release and other
 
financial and statistical information about the periods to be presented in the conference call will be accessible through the Zimmer website at .
http://investor.zimmer.com
As previously announced, the Company will conduct a meeting for investment analysts on Wednesday, February 14, 2007, during the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons meeting in San Diego. The meeting will be held at 5:00 p.m. (Pacific Time); the location will be announced when it is finalized.
The investment analyst meeting will be hosted by Ray Elliott, Chairman, President and CEO, and Sam Leno, Executive Vice President, Finance and Corporate Services and Chief Financial Officer, and will feature a presentation and question-and-answer period.
To avoid any delay in starting the meeting on time, investment analysts are encouraged to pre-register for the meeting by contacting Michele Picillo in advance of the meeting at 574-372-4474 or by e-mail at
michele.picillo@zimmer.com
About the Company
Founded in 1927 and headquartered in Warsaw, Indiana, Zimmer is the worldwide #1 pure-play orthopaedic leader in designing, developing, manufacturing and marketing reconstructive and spinal implants, trauma and related orthopaedic surgical products. Zimmer has operations in more than 24 countries around the world and sells products in more than 100 countries. Zimmer's 2005 sales were approximately $3.3 billion. The Company is supported by the efforts of more than 6,700 employees worldwide.
 
Note on Non-GAAP Financial Measures
As used in this press release, the term refers to operating performance measures that exclude acquisition, integration and other expenses and inventory step-up. This press release also includes adjusted performance measures that exclude the effect of share-based payment, which is also a non-GAAP financial measure. The term "" refers to any financial measure that excludes the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure are included in this press release.
"adjusted"
constant currency
Zimmer Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the orthopaedics industry, management's beliefs and assumptions made by management. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as "may," "will," "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "assumes," "guides," "targets," "forecasts," and "seeks" or the negative of such terms or other variations on such terms or comparable terminology. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, the outcome of the Department of Justice investigations announced in March 2005 and June 2006, price and product competition, rapid technological development, demographic changes, dependence on new product development, the mix of our products and services, supply and prices of raw materials and products, customer demand for our products and services, control of costs and expenses, our ability to form and implement alliances, international growth, governmental laws and regulations affecting our U.S. and international businesses, including tax obligations and risks, product liability and intellectual property litigation losses, reimbursement levels from third-party payors, general industry and market conditions and growth rates and general domestic and international economic conditions including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations. For a further list and description of such risks and uncertainties, see our periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We disclaim any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be set forth in our periodic reports. Readers of this document are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, since, while we believe the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Projected Three Months Ended December 31, 2006:


