FILE:ZMH/ZMH-8K-20060130170938.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
Table of Contents
     
ITEM 2.02
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
     On January 30, 2006, Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (the "Registrant") reported its results of operations for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2005. The Registrant's earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and the information set forth therein is incorporated herein by reference and constitutes a part of this report.
     As previously announced, the Registrant acquired Centerpulse AG on October 2, 2003 and Implex Corp. on April 23, 2004. The earnings release attached as Exhibit 99.1 includes the operating performance measures of adjusted net earnings, adjusted diluted EPS and projected adjusted diluted EPS which exclude acquisition, integration and other expenses and inventory step-up. Projected adjusted diluted EPS also excludes the estimated impact of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123(R), "Share Based Payment". The earnings release also includes other non-GAAP financial measures including adjusted net margin, adjusted operating margin and adjusted gross margin.
     The Registrant also reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of constant currency sales. Constant currency results are calculated by translating actual current and prior-year sales at the same predetermined exchange rates. The translated results are then used to determine year-over-year percentage increases or decreases that exclude the impact of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Constant currency sales as defined and presented by the Registrant may not be comparable to similar measures reported by other companies.
     Management uses these non-GAAP financial measures to evaluate the Registrant's operating performance and believes that their presentation in the earnings release allows investors to more easily compare the Registrant's performance on a period to period basis. It also aids investors in understanding the operating results of the Registrant absent the specific acquisition-related items detailed above. However, these measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, other measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
     All of the non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure in the press release.
     The Registrant is furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibits, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" with the SEC or incorporated by reference into any other filing with the SEC. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, the Registrant makes no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibits.
     
ITEM 9.01
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
Exhibit 99.1
 
(WARSAW, IN) January 30, 2006  Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (NYSE and SWX: ZMH) today reported financial results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2005. For the fourth quarter, the Company announced net sales of $848 million, an increase of 6% reported and 9% constant currency. Diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.80 reported and $0.86 adjusted, exceeding First Call earnings estimates of $0.83 adjusted. Full year net sales were $3.29 billion and diluted earnings per share were $2.93 reported and $3.10 adjusted. Adjusted results exclude acquisition and integration expenses and inventory step-up, as applicable.
"In 2005, we continued to deliver on our core strategies of value-added education, innovative investment and flawless execution, resulting in excellent earnings growth while overcoming moderating foreign currency and price environments," said Ray Elliott, Zimmer Chairman, President and CEO. "Our record profit margin performance, including our 25% adjusted net income ratio, and our cash generation have allowed us to fully repay our acquisition related debt and make game-changing investments for the future. Since the acquisition of Centerpulse, we have generated almost $2 billion of operating cash flow and we intend to use our excess cash primarily for biologics, dental and spine acquisitions."
With almost 90% of all milestones associated with the Centerpulse integration completed, including the October closure of the acquired manufacturing plant in Austin, Texas, the Company reaffirmed its belief that the Centerpulse related annual synergy expense savings will exceed $100 million in 2006. The Company also previously announced a new management leadership structure designed to move beyond integration and take advantage of both its depth and diversity. The new structure, which focuses on growing organically and assimilating acquisitions, provides the opportunity to significantly expand senior management responsibilities and was accomplished solely through internal promotions.
The Company has expanded its leadership in Procedures and Technologies with a total of 13 procedures now supported by surgeon education and specific instrumentation. During the year, the Company's Anterolateral Hip Procedure gained excellent acceptance, with more than 1,200 surgeons trained. The Company also
Minimally Invasive Solutions (MIS)
MIS
 
announced data on more than 2,500 Zimmer Hip cases, demonstrating cost savings and improvements in patient outcomes measures. More than 1,200 surgeons have been trained in the Total Knee Procedure, which has been the subject of peer reviewed scientific journals demonstrating clear patient and economic benefits. In one published paper, 96% of patients studied went home on the same day of their procedure, with overall complication rates comparable to those reported for traditional procedures. More recently, a published paper reported hospital profitability improvements with Zimmer knee procedures of nearly $3,000 per patient, even with a study group that included approximately 70% Medicare patients.
MIS 2-Incision
MIS Quad-Sparing
MIS Quad-Sparing
MIS
"In 2005, we made important progress building our Biologics infrastructure for long-term growth," said Elliott. "We have filed for regulatory approval to begin human clinical trials for the Neocartilage material we are developing with ISTO Technologies, Inc. We signed an agreement with Revivicor, Inc. to develop and market xenographic porcine tissues for use in orthopaedic applications and we launched the Zimmer Collagen Repair Patch for repair of rotator cuff injuries."
The Company said it has made major strides in technologies with the launch of electromagnetic navigation, including the  Portable Navigation System. An expanded Palacos agreement with Heraeus will enable Zimmer to offer -friendly, antibiotic bone cement from one of the world's leading brands. The Company is also moving forward in expanding Zimmer bearing surface options, having received an approvable letter from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration for its Ceramic-on-Ceramic Acetabular System. The Company has completed its submission of filings for regulatory clearance of large head, Metal-on-Metal Hip Replacement products.
Computer-Aided Solutions
iNAV
MIS
Trilogy AB
Metasul
The following tables provide sales results by geographic segment and product category, as well as the percentage change compared to the prior year quarter and twelve months on both a reported and a constant currency basis.
 
 
Net earnings for the quarter were $200 million on a reported basis, and were $215 million adjusted, an increase of 22% adjusted over the prior year period. Diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.80 reported and were $0.86 adjusted, an increase of 21% adjusted over the prior year period.
 
 
Net earnings for the twelve months were $733 million on a reported basis, and were $775 million adjusted, an increase of 30% adjusted over the prior year period. Diluted earnings per share for the twelve months were $2.93 reported and were $3.10 adjusted, an increase of 29% adjusted over the prior year period. Included in the twelve months is approximately $6.5 million of pre-tax income, which was recorded and reported in the second quarter, related primarily to the favorable resolution of certain legal and other matters. These items contributed a little less than $0.02 to diluted earnings per share and are not expected to occur in the future.
On December 15, 2005, the Company announced that its Board of Directors authorized a stock repurchase program under which the Company may repurchase up to $1 billion of its common stock over the next two years, giving Zimmer another option to increase shareholder value.
Guidance
The Company is reaffirming its full year guidance for 2006 sales growth of 8% to 9% over 2005 and also reaffirming earnings per share growth of 17% to 19% on a higher than forecasted finish for 2005. Earnings per share are expected to be $3.58 to $3.64 reported and $3.62 to $3.68 adjusted, an increase of $0.03 over prior guidance for 2006. This guidance does not incorporate the effect of FAS 123R, Share-Based Payment. The 2006 sales guidance assumes a 1% reduction due to foreign currency, a 1% reduction due to the loss of the Company's Blood Management System distribution agreement and a 1% reduction in global pricing.
OrthoPAT
Due to the accelerated strengthening of the U.S. dollar throughout most of 2005, the negative effects on sales growth of foreign currency is expected to be greater in the first half of 2006 than the second half. The negative contribution to 2006 sales growth from foreign currency is expected to be approximately 3% in the first quarter and 1.5 % in the second quarter. Finally, the loss of the product line will contribute a 1% decline in sales growth in each quarter of 2006 until a replacement product is identified and brought to market. Considering these issues, sales growth for the first quarter and second quarter 2006 is expected to
OrthoPAT
 
be 5% to 6% and sales growth for the second six months is expected to be 10% to 11%.
Earnings per share for the first quarter of 2006 are expected to be approximately $0.85 to $0.86 reported and $0.86 to $0.87 adjusted, and the second quarter is expected to be approximately $0.87 to $0.88 reported and $0.88 to $0.89 adjusted. Earnings per share adjusted, therefore, are expected to increase 15% to 16% for the first quarter of 2006. Second quarter earnings per share adjusted growth is expected to be 10% to 11%, which represents 13% to 14% growth excluding the non-recurring $0.02 per share benefit that occurred in the second quarter of 2005 associated with the resolution of certain legal and other matters previously disclosed. Earnings per share adjusted are expected to increase 21% to 23% for the second six months of 2006.
The 2006 earnings per share reduction due to the adoption of FAS 123R, Share-Based Payment, is estimated to be approximately $0.06 per quarter, or $0.23 to $0.25 for the full year.
Conference Call
The Company will conduct its fourth quarter and year end 2005 investor conference call on Tuesday, January 31, 2006, at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The live audio webcast can be accessed via Zimmer's Investor Relations website at . It will be archived for replay following the conference.
http://investor.zimmer.com
Individuals who wish to dial into the conference call may do so at (800) 406-1106. International callers should dial (706) 634-7075. A digital recording will be available two hours after the completion of the conference call from January 31, 2006 to February 2, 2006. To access the recording, US/Canada callers should dial (800) 642-1687, or for International callers, dial (706) 645-9291, and enter the Conference ID, 3966604. A copy of this press release and other financial and statistical information about the periods to be presented in the conference call will be accessible through the Zimmer website at .
http://investor.zimmer.com
 
Zimmer 2006 Analyst Meeting at AAOS
As previously announced, the Company will conduct a meeting for investment analysts on Wednesday, March 22, 2006, during the 73rd Annual Meeting of the American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons. The meeting will be held at 4:45 p.m. Central Time in the Chicago Ballroom of the Sheraton Chicago Hotel and Towers. The investment analyst meeting will be hosted by Ray Elliott, Chairman, President and CEO, and Sam Leno, Executive Vice President, Finance and Corporate Services and Chief Financial Officer, and will feature a presentation and question-and-answer period. The meeting will be broadcast live on the Internet at . The meeting will also be archived for replay, which can also be accessed on the Internet at .
http://investor.zimmer.com
http://investor.zimmer.com
To avoid any delay in starting the meeting on time, investment analysts are encouraged to pre-register for the meeting by contacting Michele Picillo in advance of the meeting at 574-372-4474 or by e-mail at .
michele.picillo@zimmer.com
About the Company
Founded in 1927 and headquartered in Warsaw, Indiana, Zimmer is the worldwide #1 pure-play orthopaedic leader in designing, developing, manufacturing and marketing reconstructive and spinal implants, trauma and related orthopaedic surgical products. Zimmer has operations in more than 24 countries around the world and sells products in more than 100 countries. Zimmer's 2005 sales were approximately $3.3 billion. The Company is supported by the efforts of more than 6,700 employees worldwide.
 
Note on Non-GAAP Financial Measures
As used in this press release, the term refers to operating performance measures that exclude acquisition, integration and other expenses and inventory step-up. The term "" refers to any financial measure that excludes the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure are included in this press release.
"adjusted"
constant currency
Zimmer Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the orthopaedics industry, management's beliefs and assumptions made by management. The forward-looking statements include sales and diluted earnings per share guidance and other statements identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as "may," "will," "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "assumes," "guides," "targets," "forecasts," and "seeks" or the negative of such terms or other variations on such terms or comparable terminology. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our ability to successfully integrate Centerpulse AG and Implex Corp., the outcome of the Department of Justice investigation announced in March 2005 and the pending informal SEC investigation of Centerpulse accounting, price and product competition, rapid technological development, demographic changes, dependence on new product development, the mix of our products and services, supply and prices of raw materials and products, customer demand for our products and services, control of costs and expenses, our ability to form and implement alliances, international growth, governmental laws and regulations affecting our U.S. and international businesses, including tax obligations and risks, product liability and intellectual property litigation losses, reimbursement levels from third-party payors, general industry and market conditions and growth rates and general domestic and international economic conditions including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations. For a further list and description of such risks and uncertainties, see the disclosure materials filed by Zimmer with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. Zimmer disclaims any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise. Readers of this document are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, since, while we believe the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


