FILE:ZMH/ZMH-8K-20060221060303.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported)
February 17, 2006
Registrant's telephone number, including area code
(574) 267-6131
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
ITEM 1.01 ENTRY INTO A MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENT
     On February 17, 2006, the Board of Directors of Zimmer Holdings, Inc. approved the following changes in the company's non-employee director compensation program, effective as of the 2006 annual meeting of stockholders on May 1:
     A copy of the form of RSU award letter for use under the company's Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this report and incorporated by reference herein.
     Also on February 17, 2006, the Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors established the performance criteria for the 2006 annual incentive awards under the Zimmer Holdings, Inc. Executive Performance Incentive Plan (the "Plan") for certain key employees, including the following named executive officers (as reported in the company's 2005 proxy statement): J. Raymond Elliott, Sam R. Leno, Bruno A. Melzi and David C. Dvorak. The annual incentive awards will be based upon achievement by the company of certain weighted performance levels for the following performance metrics for the year ended December 31, 2006: adjusted earnings per share, consolidated revenue and consolidated free cash flow. The term "adjusted" refers to a measure that excludes the effects of acquisition and integration expenses and purchase accounting. A copy of the Plan was filed as Exhibit 10.6 to the company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
      (d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: February 21, 2006
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
     Board of Directors:
     Gentlemen:
     You have advised me that I have been granted the above award of restricted stock units subject to the terms, restrictions and conditions set forth in this agreement. I understand that the units may be forfeited under certain circumstances as provided herein.
     My signature below indicates my agreement to all the terms, restrictions and conditions herein set forth.
     1. 
RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD
     Under Section 6 of the Zimmer Holdings, Inc. Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the "Plan"), the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (the "Company") has granted to the Award Recipient on the Award Date the award of restricted stock units set forth above (the "Award"). Each restricted stock unit shall entitle the Award Recipient to receive a share of the Company's common stock, par value $0.01 per share ("Common Stock"), subject to the terms, conditions, and restrictions set forth in this agreement. Except as may be required by law, the Award Recipient is not required to make any payment or provide any additional consideration for the Award other than the rendering of future services as an Eligible Director (as defined in the Plan).
     2. 
GENERAL
     (a) The restricted stock units shall be vested as of the Award Date set forth above, but shall be deferred until the later of (i) three years from the Award Date or (ii) the first date on which the Award Recipient ceases to provide services to the Company as a director.
     (b) The Award Recipient shall not have any of the rights of a stockholder of the Company, including the right to vote or receive dividends and other distributions with respect to the shares of Common Stock covered by this Award, until the shares of Common Stock have been issued and delivered.
 
     3. 
ISSUANCE AND DELIVERY OF SHARES
     (a) As soon as practicable following the satisfaction of the condition set forth in Section 2(a) and subject to subsection (b) hereof, the Company shall issue and deliver the shares of Common Stock covered by this Award to the Award Recipient.
     (b) The Company shall not be required to issue or deliver any certificate or certificates for shares of the Common Stock earned pursuant to this Award prior to (i) the admission of such shares to listing on any stock exchange on which the stock may then be listed, (ii) the completion of any registration or other qualification of such shares under any state or federal law or rulings or regulations of any governmental regulatory body, and (iii) the obtaining of any consent or approval or other clearance from any governmental agency, which the Company shall, in its sole discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable.
     4. 
CHANGES IN CAPITALIZATION
     If prior to the issuance of the shares of Common Stock covered by this Award, any change occurs in the outstanding Common Stock by reason of stock dividends, recapitalization, mergers, consolidations, stock splits, combinations or exchanges of shares and the like, the number and class of shares of Common Stock subject to this Award shall be appropriately adjusted by the Board, whose determination shall be conclusive. If as a result of any adjustment under this paragraph any Award Recipient should become entitled to a fractional share of stock, the Award Recipient shall have the right only to the adjusted number of full shares and no payment or other adjustment will be made with respect to the fractional share so disregarded.
     5. 
NOTICE
     Until the Award Recipient is advised otherwise, all notices and other correspondence with respect to this Award will be effective upon receipt at the following address:
Board of Directors Zimmer Holdings, Inc. 345 East Main Street Post Office Box 708 Warsaw, Indiana 46581-0708
     6. 
NO ADDITIONAL RIGHTS
     Except as explicitly provided in this agreement, this agreement will not confer any rights upon the Award Recipient, including any right with respect to continuation of service as a director, reelection to the Board or any right to future awards under the Plan.
     7. 
CONSTRUCTION AND INTERPRETATION
     The Board shall have full authority and discretion, subject only to the express terms of the Plan, to decide all matters relating to the administration and interpretation of the Plan and this agreement and all such Board determinations shall be final, conclusive, and binding upon the Award Recipient and all interested parties. The terms and conditions set forth in this agreement are subject in all respects to the terms and conditions of the Plan, as amended from time to time, which shall be controlling. This agreement contains the entire understanding of the parties and may not be modified or amended except in writing duly signed by the parties; provided, however, that the Company reserves the right to modify the terms of this Award to comply with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, to the extent applicable. The waiver of, or failure to enforce, any provision of this agreement or the Plan by the Company will not constitute a waiver by the Company of the same provision or right at any other time or a waiver of any other provision or right. The various provisions of this agreement are severable and any determination of invalidity or unenforceability of any provision shall have no effect on the remaining provisions. This agreement will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors, assigns, and heirs of the respective parties. The validity and construction of this agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of Indiana.


