FILE:ZMH/ZMH-8K-20070501172119.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 5.02 DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR CERTAIN OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF CERTAIN OFFICERS; COMPENSATORY ARRANGEMENTS OF CERTAIN OFFICERS
     Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release on May 1, 2007 announcing changes in its Board of Directors and senior management. The press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and the information set forth therein is incorporated herein by reference.
     Effective May 1, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company appointed David C. Dvorak to the offices of President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company. Mr. Dvorak, age 43, succeeds J. Raymond Elliott, who previously announced his intention to retire as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company during the first half of 2007. Mr. Dvorak was also appointed to serve as a member of the Company's Board of Directors, with a term expiring in 2008. The election of Mr. Dvorak increases the size of the Board of Directors from six to seven. As previously announced, Mr. Elliott will continue to serve as Chairman of the Board of Directors through at least November 2007. Mr. Dvorak is not expected to be appointed to any Board committees.
     Prior to his appointment as President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Dvorak served as Group President, Global Businesses and Chief Legal Officer of the Company.
     Also effective May 1, 2007, the Board of Directors appointed James T. Crines, age 48, to the offices of Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer, replacing Sam R. Leno. Mr. Leno notified the Company on April 25, 2007 that he will resign effective May 4, 2007 and pursue another business opportunity.
     Prior to his appointment as Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer, Mr. Crines served as Senior Vice President, Finance, Operations and Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer of the Company.
     The Compensation and Management Development Committee of the Board of Directors approved changes to certain aspects of the compensation arrangements with Messrs. Dvorak and Crines, effective May 1, 2007.
     Mr. Dvorak's base salary was increased to $700,000 annually and Mr. Crines' base salary was increased to $415,000 annually.
     Each of Messrs. Dvorak and Crines is currently eligible to receive an annual cash incentive award, based upon a specified percentage of his base salary, under the Company's Executive Performance Incentive Plan (the "Incentive Plan") and equity-based awards under the Company's 2006 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (the "Stock Plan"). A copy of the Incentive Plan is filed as Exhibit 10.6 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003. A copy of the Stock Plan is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 13, 2006. For 2007, the performance goals under the Incentive Plan for these officers include goals based upon earnings per share (representing 50% of each award), revenue (representing 25% of each award) and cash flow (representing 25% of each award). Effective May 1, 2007, the target amount under the Incentive Plan for each of these officers has been changed to 100% of base salary for Mr. Dvorak and 60% of base salary for Mr. Crines.
     The Committee also approved three awards to Mr. Dvorak under the Stock Plan, each with a grant date of May 1, 2007: (1) 100,000 non-qualified stock options vesting
 
ratably on the first, second, third and fourth anniversaries of the date of grant; (2) a maximum of 57,000 (target of 19,000) performance shares for an award period ending December 31, 2008 and having performance conditions to be approved by the Committee within 90 days; and (3) restricted shares having a grant date fair market value of $2,000,000 and subject to forfeiture until the shares vest ratably on the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant.
     The Committee also approved three awards to Mr. Crines under the Stock Plan, each with a grant date of May 1, 2007: (1) 25,000 non-qualified stock options vesting ratably on the first, second, third and fourth anniversaries of the date of grant; (2) a maximum of 13,334 (target of 4,445) performance shares for an award period ending December 31, 2008 and having performance conditions to be approved by the Committee within 90 days; and (3) restricted shares having a grant date fair market value of $1,000,000 and subject to forfeiture until the shares vest ratably on the third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the date of grant.
     The awards of nonqualified stock options will be subject to the terms and conditions of the Company's nonqualified stock option award agreement under the Stock Plan, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 13, 2006. The awards of restricted shares will be subject to the terms and conditions of the Company's restricted stock award agreement under the Stock Plan, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed December 13, 2006. The Company will file the form of award agreement applicable to the performance share awards as an exhibit to a future current or periodic report once the Committee approves the performance conditions applicable to the awards.
     Messrs. Dvorak and Crines also participate in other employee benefit plans and compensation arrangements that are described in the proxy statement for the Company's 2007 annual meeting of stockholders, including a defined benefit pension plan, a savings and investment (401(k)) plan and supplemental plans. Each of them has also previously entered into a change in control severance agreement that provides them with severance benefits following a change in control of the Company and termination of the executive's employment and a non-disclosure, non-competition and non-solicitation employment agreement. These agreements and other compensatory arrangements with these executives described in the 2007 proxy statement have not otherwise changed.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
     (d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: May 1, 2007
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
(WARSAW, IN) May 1, 2007  Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (NYSE and SWX: ZMH), a global leader in the orthopaedics industry, announced today that David C. Dvorak has been named President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company and has also been appointed to the Company's Board of Directors, effectively immediately.
Mr. Dvorak, 43, who had been Group President, Global Businesses and Chief Legal Officer, succeeds Ray Elliott as President and CEO. Mr. Elliott, 57, who served nearly 25 years as a company president and as Zimmer Holdings' Chairman, President and CEO since 2001 and its predecessor's President since 1997, announced last November that he would retire in the first half of 2007, but would remain Chairman of the Board until at least November of 2007.
"While the years I have spent at Zimmer have been the most rewarding of my career, I determined some time ago that it would be appropriate for me to turn over the day-to-day leadership of the Company and spend more time devoted to external boards and transaction-related work," Mr. Elliott said. "Our Board conducted a thorough and methodical search for my successor and was unanimous in its selection of David Dvorak. I have had the pleasure of working with David and helping him prepare for the futurewe are confident that Zimmer and its shareholders are in excellent hands."
According to John McGoldrick, Chairman of the Board's Corporate Governance Committee, Zimmer's Board took the leading role in overseeing a comprehensive search, including both internal and external candidates, to find the individual best qualified to lead Zimmer forward. "Our top priority was to find an executive with the leadership skills needed to build on Zimmer's
 
strong momentum in a highly competitive industry," Mr. McGoldrick said. "Ultimately, we found the ideal candidate right in our own company. David Dvorak has fully met all of our criteria in every category. We are pleased with the process and the outcome, and believe David is exceptionally well qualified to lead the Company to even greater success."
"I am fully committed to Zimmer's mission and strategic direction and I share our employees' passion to enhance patient quality of life," said Mr. Dvorak. "Under Ray's strong leadership, the growth of Zimmer has been a great business success story and the two of us will be working closely together to facilitate this transition. I am absolutely convinced that our talented management team will continue to execute our plan successfully and generate the strong results expected by both our customers and shareholders."
As Group President, Global Businesses, Mr. Dvorak has been responsible for the Company's Dental, Spine, Trauma and Orthopaedic Surgical Products divisions. In addition to his role as Chief Legal Officer, during his tenure at the Company, he also has had global responsibility for Business Development, Human Resources, Quality Assurance, Regulatory Affairs, Clinical Affairs, Corporate Compliance, Government Affairs and Public Relations. Mr. Dvorak was a principal architect of the Company's successful acquisition and integration of Switzerland-based Centerpulse AG.
Mr. Dvorak joined Zimmer in 2001, and helped execute the Company's successful spin-off from its former parent. He previously was Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of STERIS Corporation, a worldwide leader in medical products sterilization and contamination prevention products and services. At STERIS, Mr. Dvorak had responsibility for a broad range of global functions. He earlier practiced law with two major firms, with a focus on corporate and securities law, and mergers and acquisitions.
Mr. Dvorak received a Bachelor's Degree in Finance from Miami University in Oxford, Ohio, and his law degree, , from Case Western Reserve University School of Law.
magna cum laude
 
Also today, the Company announced the appointment of James T. Crines as Executive Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer, replacing Sam R. Leno, 61, who notified Zimmer recently that he is accepting a position with Boston Scientific Corporation.
Mr. Crines, 48, was first appointed as a corporate officer of Zimmer Holdings in 2001. Most recently he has served as Senior Vice President, Finance, Operations and Corporate Controller and Chief Accounting Officer, with responsibility for internal and external reporting, corporate and business unit accounting, and global operations, manufacturing and logistics.
Commenting on Mr. Crines' appointment, Mr. Elliott said: "We are pleased to have someone of Jim's caliber and extensive experience step into the role of CFO. In the last six years, Jim has been instrumental in the Company's success, beginning with the key role he played in the Company's 2001 spin-off."
Mr. Crines joined Zimmer in 1997 and was a leader in the early development of the Company's strategy for  Procedures and Technologies. He also served as the Controller of the Company's business in Japan, where he lived with his family. Prior to joining Zimmer from its former parent, Mr. Crines served in financial management roles at American Cyanamid and as a senior auditor with PricewaterhouseCoopers. He received his Bachelor of Science degree in Accounting from the University of Scranton and an MBA from the Rutgers Graduate School of Management. He is a Certified Public Accountant.
Minimally Invasive Solutions
Mr. Leno, in commenting on his departure, said: "Zimmer is a terrific company and I am proud to have contributed to its success during the past six years. I am leaving behind a legacy of talented financial personnel who will contribute greatly to Zimmer's future. Jim Crines in particular is an outstanding financial executive with whom I have worked closely, and he is well prepared to immediately step into the position of Chief Financial Officer. While I will miss the camaraderie and the close professional relationships at Zimmer, I am equally pleased to have this unique opportunity to join Boston Scientific, another great company. My wife and I are looking forward to relocating to the Boston area."
 
According to Mr. Elliott, "Zimmer is grateful for the many positive contributions Sam has made to the Company, and as both a friend and a business partner, we wish him well in his new endeavor."
The Company will conduct an investor conference call regarding these appointments today at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time. The live audio webcast can be accessed via Zimmer's Investor Relations website at . It will be archived for replay following the conference.
http://investor.zimmer.com
Individuals who wish to dial into the conference call may do so at (800) 406-1106. International callers should dial (706) 634-7075. A digital recording will be available two hours after the completion of the conference call from May 1, 2007 to May 14, 2007. To access the recording, US/Canada callers should dial (800) 642-1687, or for International callers, dial (706) 645-9291, and enter the Conference ID, 7701876. A copy of this press release is accessible through the Zimmer website at .
http://investor.zimmer.com
About the Company
Founded in 1927 and headquartered in Warsaw, Indiana, Zimmer is the worldwide #1 pure-play orthopaedic leader in designing, developing, manufacturing and marketing reconstructive and spinal implants, trauma and related orthopaedic surgical products. Zimmer has operations in more than 24 countries around the world and sells products in more than 100 countries. Zimmer's 2006 sales were approximately $3.5 billion. The Company is supported by the efforts of nearly 7,000 employees worldwide.
Zimmer Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the orthopaedics industry, management's beliefs and
 
assumptions made by management. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as "may," "will," "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "assumes," "guides," "targets," "forecasts," and "seeks" or the negative of such terms or other variations on such terms or comparable terminology. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, the outcome of the Department of Justice investigations announced in March 2005 and June 2006, price and product competition, rapid technological development, demographic changes, dependence on new product development, the mix of our products and services, supply and prices of raw materials and products, customer demand for our products and services, control of costs and expenses, our ability to form and implement alliances, international growth, governmental laws and regulations affecting our U.S. and international businesses, including tax obligations and risks, product liability and intellectual property litigation losses, reimbursement levels from third-party payors, general industry and market conditions and growth rates and general domestic and international economic conditions including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations. For a further list and description of such risks and uncertainties, see our periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We disclaim any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be set forth in our periodic reports. Readers of this document are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, since, while we believe the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.


