FILE:ZMH/ZMH-8K-20070425165704.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
     On April 25, 2007, Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (the "Registrant") reported its results of operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. The Registrant's earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and the information set forth therein is incorporated herein by reference and constitutes a part of this report.
     As previously announced, the Registrant acquired Centerpulse AG on October 2, 2003 and Implex Corp. on April 23, 2004. The earnings release attached as Exhibit 99.1 includes the operating performance measures of adjusted net earnings, adjusted diluted EPS and projected adjusted diluted EPS which exclude acquisition and integration expenses. It also includes other non-GAAP financial measures including adjusted net margin, adjusted operating margin and adjusted gross margin.
     The Registrant also reported sales performance using the non-GAAP financial measure of constant currency sales. Constant currency results are calculated by translating actual current and prior-year sales at the same predetermined exchange rates. The translated results are then used to determine year-over-year percentage increases or decreases that exclude the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Constant currency sales as defined and presented by the Registrant may not be comparable to similar measures reported by other companies.
     Management believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures allows investors to more easily compare the Registrant's performance on a period to period basis. It also aids investors in understanding the operating results of the Registrant absent the specific acquisition-related items detailed above. However, these measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, other measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
     All of the non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure in the press release.
     The Registrant is furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibits, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" with the SEC or incorporated by reference into any other filing with the SEC. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, the Registrant makes no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
(WARSAW, IN) April 25, 2007  Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (NYSE and SWX: ZMH) today reported financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. For the quarter, the Company announced net sales of $950 million, an increase of 10% reported and 8% constant currency, exceeding management guidance of $932 million and First Call estimates of $934 million. Of the $18 million in sales above management guidance, less than $2 million can be attributed to foreign exchange, while $16 million came from underlying constant currency growth. Diluted
 
earnings per share for the quarter were $0.98 reported and adjusted, exceeding First Call earnings estimates of $0.93 adjusted. The $0.98 in earnings per share reflect strong sales and operational results. The earnings per share effect of share repurchases in the quarter was de minimis.
"We're very pleased to start off the year with a quarter that exceeded both our guidance and Wall Street's expectations for sales and earnings performance," said Ray Elliott, Zimmer Chairman, President and CEO. "We recently concluded our most successful American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons meeting ever in terms of attendance at our educational sessions and traffic through our booth. Our reconstructive sales continued to build momentum, led by more than 14,000 implantations of our  Knee, exceeding our previously increased aspirations of 12,000."
Zimmer Gender Solutions
During the quarter, the Company initiated its first intensive direct-to-patient marketing campaign in support of the Knee. Television advertising has been launched in 23 target markets in the United States, including New York, Chicago and San Francisco, and will run through the first half of 2007. Since January, more than 200,000 hits have been received at the Company's new internet site, . At the AAOS meeting in February, the Company debuted its first gender-specific hip replacement system, the  M/L Taper Stem with Technology, which it expects to launch in the third quarter of this year, followed by the Hip Prosthesis in early 2008.
Gender Solutions
www.GenderKnee.com
Zimmer Gender Solutions
Kinectiv
TM
Zimmer Gender Solutions VerSys
Epoch
The Company previously announced that it would acquire Endius, Inc., a privately held pioneer in the development of breakthrough minimally invasive spine surgery products, implants and techniques. This acquisition was subsequently completed in April. In a separate transaction, the Company acquired the intellectual property rights, inventory and associated assets of the Anterior Cervical Plate System, a versatile, low-profile ACP system that complements the Company's existing Zimmer Spine product offering.
Cyclone
"We continue to execute our strategic plan to Enable, Innovate and Grow, which focuses on key opportunities now and in the future," said Elliott. "We believe that our knee
Gender Solutions
 
fosters an important dialogue between women and their physicians, and our investments in spinal technologies should improve our ability to compete for growth in that robust market. The introduction of the  Bone Resection Instrument Guide in late 2007 will provide a for the operating room that should enhance accuracy for total joint replacement while significantly reducing instrument costs for both the hospital and Zimmer. We are laying the groundwork for our future in biologics with an expected fourth quarter launch of Natural Tissue Graft. Moreover, we have added clinical trial sites to our study of Engineered Tissue Graft, which is designed to potentially replace articular cartilage."
BRIGIT
SmartTool
DeNovo NT
DeNovo ET
In the quarter, the Company purchased 2.1 million common shares for a total of $173 million as part of a $1 billion repurchase program, which was announced in 2005 and expires December 31, 2007. Purchases under this program are now 14.2 million shares for a total of nearly $1 billion. A second $1 billion repurchase program was authorized by the Board of Directors in December 2006 with an expiration date of December 31, 2008.
The following table provides sales results by geographic segment and product category, as well as the percentage change compared to the prior year quarter on both a reported and constant currency basis.
Sales Table
 
 
Net earnings for the first quarter were $233 million on a reported basis and were $235 on an adjusted basis, an increase of 15% adjusted over the prior year.
With strong operating results for the first quarter, the Company is raising its full year 2007 sales guidance by $34 million. Of this increase, $18 million occurred in the first quarter, with less than $2 million coming from improved foreign currency contributions. The remaining $16 million of increased sales guidance assumes improved operating performance in each of the last three quarters. The average foreign currency exchange rates realized in the first quarter were in line with rates assumed when communicating 2007 guidance on January 29, 2007. While the U.S. dollar has weakened in the last few weeks, this updated guidance assumes the same average rates experienced throughout the first quarter.
Guidance
*First Quarter 2007 represents actual results.
The Company is also increasing its full year 2007 adjusted earnings per share guidance by $0.07 while absorbing the dilution effect of its recent acquisition of Endius. Of this increase, $0.05 occurred in the first quarter. An additional operational increase of $0.03 is included for the remainder of the year, offset by $0.01 of dilution from the acquisition of Endius.
 
*First Quarter 2007 represents actual results.
The Company will conduct its first quarter 2007 investor conference call on April 26, 2007, at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The live audio webcast can be accessed via Zimmer's Investor Relations website at . It will be archived for replay following the conference.
Conference Call
http://investor.zimmer.com
Individuals who wish to dial into the conference call may do so at (800) 406-1106. International callers should dial (706) 634-7075. A digital recording will be available two hours after the completion of the conference call from April 26, 2007 to May 10, 2007. To access the recording, US/Canada callers should dial (800) 642-1687, or for International callers, dial (706) 645-9291, and enter the Conference ID, 5468770. A copy of this press release and other financial and statistical information about the period to be presented in the conference call will be accessible through the Zimmer website at .
http://investor.zimmer.com
Founded in 1927 and headquartered in Warsaw, Indiana, Zimmer is the worldwide #1 pure-play orthopaedic leader in designing, developing, manufacturing and marketing reconstructive and
About the Company
 
spinal implants, trauma and related orthopaedic surgical products. Zimmer has operations in more than 24 countries around the world and sells products in more than 100 countries. Zimmer's 2006 sales were approximately $3.5 billion. The Company is supported by the efforts of nearly 7,000 employees worldwide.
Note on Non-GAAP Financial Measures
As used in this press release, the term refers to operating performance measures that exclude acquisition, integration and other expenses. The term "" refers to any financial measure that excludes the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure are included in this press release.
"adjusted"
constant currency
Zimmer Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the orthopaedics industry, management's beliefs and assumptions made by management. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as "may," "will," "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "assumes," "guides," "targets," "forecasts," and "seeks" or the negative of such terms or other variations on such terms or comparable terminology. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, the outcome of the Department of Justice investigations announced in March 2005 and June 2006, price and product competition, rapid technological development, demographic changes, dependence on new product development, the mix of our products and services, supply and prices of raw materials and products, customer demand for our products and services, control of costs and expenses, our ability to conduct a successful search for a new chief executive officer and the ability of the new chief executive officer to gain proficiency in leading our company, our ability to form and implement alliances, international growth, governmental laws and regulations affecting our U.S. and international businesses, including tax obligations
 
and risks, product liability and intellectual property litigation losses, reimbursement levels from third-party payors, general industry and market conditions and growth rates and general domestic and international economic conditions including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations. For a further list and description of such risks and uncertainties, see our periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We disclaim any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be set forth in our periodic reports. Readers of this document are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, since, while we believe the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.
 
 
Note: Reflects the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48 as of January 1, 2007.
 
 
 
 
 


