FILE:ZMH/ZMH-8K-20070725173534.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
ITEM 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
          On July 25, 2007, Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (the "Registrant") reported its results of operations for the quarter ended June 30, 2007. The Registrant's earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and the information set forth therein is incorporated herein by reference and constitutes a part of this report.
          The earnings release attached as Exhibit 99.1 contains two types of non-GAAP financial measures. The first type consists of operating performance measures that have been adjusted to exclude acquisition and integration expenses. These are adjusted net earnings, adjusted diluted EPS and projected adjusted diluted EPS. The second type consists of sales information reported on a constant currency basis which has been calculated by translating actual current and prior-period sales at the same predetermined exchange rate. The translated results are then used to determine year-over-year percentage increases or decreases that exclude the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similar measures reported by other companies.
          Management believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures allows investors to more easily compare the Registrant's performance on a period to period basis. It also aids investors in understanding the operating results of the Registrant absent the specific acquisition-related items detailed above. However, these measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, other measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
          All of the non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure in the press release.
          The Registrant is furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibits, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" with the SEC or incorporated by reference into any other filing with the SEC. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, the Registrant makes no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibits.
ITEM 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
Contacts:
(WARSAW, IN) July 25, 2007  Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (NYSE and SWX: ZMH) today reported financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2007. For the quarter, the Company announced net sales of $971 million, an increase of 10% reported and 8% constant currency over the prior year period. Diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.97 reported and $0.98 adjusted, an increase of 20% reported and 18% adjusted and in line with First Call consensus estimates.
"This was a solid quarter for Zimmer and we are pleased that we achieved double digit sales growth in our Asia Pacific geographic segment, our Americas and Asia Pacific reconstructive categories, and our extremities and dental businesses," said David Dvorak, Zimmer Holdings President and CEO. "We are continuing to execute on our
Enable, Innovate and Grow
 
strategic initiatives to build on our leadership in the reconstructive area and to accelerate growth in our other business units."
The Company said it is continuing to roll out its Knee and that the product is being well received by surgeons and their patients. Second quarter sales significantly increased from the first quarter, even though distribution of the product thus far has been largely focused on existing Zimmer accounts in the U.S. Now that most Zimmer accounts have been addressed, the Company said it will concentrate its efforts on increasing U.S. market share while expanding availability in Europe and Asia Pacific.
Zimmer Gender Solutions
The Knee design is part of the  Complete Knee Solution, the Company's flagship knee brand. The Company said that more than 1,000,000 knees have been implanted in the U.S. alone since the system was first introduced.
Gender Solutions
NexGen
NexGen
"The Knee was the first product designed to address the specific differences between female and male knee anatomy," said Dvorak. "This concept and the science behind it clearly resonate with patients and surgeons. We are moving forward with our program to apply the same thinking to our hip replacement products and have released our  M/L Taper Stem with Technology to the product's developing surgeons. The first procedures were performed in April and we are now gradually ramping up availability. Additionally, we are continuing our drive toward the 2008 release of the  Hip Prosthesis."
Gender Solutions
Zimmer Gender Solutions
Kinectiv
TM
Zimmer Gender Solutions VerSys
Epoch
During the quarter, the Company completed its acquisition of Endius, Inc., expanding its Zimmer Spine product portfolio to include innovative minimally invasive instruments and implants. The Company also signed an exclusive 10-year agreement with Regeneration Technologies, Inc., for a next-generation allograft bone paste. The Company acquired Diadent, Srl., its distributor for Zimmer Dental products in Italy, Europe's second largest dental market.
Also in the quarter, the Company announced that it had received incentives of approximately $2 million from the State of Indiana to support expansions totaling 220,000 square feet to the
 
Company's manufacturing and distribution facilities at its Warsaw, Indiana, location. The expansions will provide additional capacity for anticipated future growth.
In the quarter, the Company purchased 1.5 million common shares for a total of $132 million as part of a $1 billion repurchase program set to expire on December 31, 2008. An earlier $1 billion repurchase program was fully executed, with a total of 14 million shares purchased.
Sales Tables
The following tables provide sales results by geographic segment and product category, as well as the percentage change compared to the prior year quarter and six months on both a reported and constant currency basis.
 
 
 
Net earnings for the second quarter were $232 million on a reported basis and were $235 million on an adjusted basis, an increase of 14% adjusted over the prior year period. Net earnings for the first six months of 2007 were $465 million on a reported basis and were $470 million on an adjusted basis, an increase of 14% adjusted over the prior year period.
Guidance
The Company said that it anticipates third and fourth quarter sales will be in line with the guidance provided on April 25, 2007, which was for sales of $910 million and $1,050 million, respectively, bringing full year sales to $3,881 million. Third and fourth quarter adjusted earnings per share guidance is also unchanged at $0.91 and $1.16, respectively, which, combined with first half results, would bring full year adjusted earnings per share to $4.03.
Conference Call
The Company will conduct its second quarter 2007 investor conference call on July 26, 2007, at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The live audio webcast can be accessed via Zimmer's Investor Relations website at . It will be archived for replay following the conference.
http://investor.zimmer.com
Individuals who wish to dial into the conference call may do so at (800) 406-1106. International callers should dial (706) 634-7075. A digital recording will be available two hours after the completion of the conference call from July 26, 2007 to August 9, 2007. To access the recording, US/Canada callers should dial (800) 642-1687, or for International callers, dial (706) 645-9291, and enter the Conference ID, 6258362. A copy of this press release and other financial and statistical information about the periods to be presented in the conference call will be accessible through the Zimmer website at .
http://investor.zimmer.com
About the Company
Founded in 1927 and headquartered in Warsaw, Indiana, Zimmer is the worldwide #1 pure-play orthopaedic leader in designing, developing, manufacturing and marketing reconstructive and spinal implants, trauma and related orthopaedic surgical products. Zimmer has operations in more than 24 countries around the world and sells products in more than 100 countries.
 
Zimmer's 2006 sales were approximately $3.5 billion. The Company is supported by the efforts of nearly 7,000 employees worldwide.
Note on Non-GAAP Financial Measures
As used in this press release, the term refers to operating performance measures that exclude acquisition, integration and other expenses. The term "" refers to any financial measure that excludes the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure are included in this press release.
"adjusted"
constant currency
Zimmer Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the orthopaedics industry, management's beliefs and assumptions made by management. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as "may," "will," "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "assumes," "guides," "targets," "forecasts," and "seeks" or the negative of such terms or other variations on such terms or comparable terminology. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, the outcome of the Department of Justice investigations announced in March 2005 and June 2006, price and product competition, rapid technological development, demographic changes, dependence on new product development, the mix of our products and services, supply and prices of raw materials and products, customer demand for our products and services, control of costs and expenses, our ability to form and implement alliances, international growth, governmental laws and regulations affecting our U.S. and international businesses, including tax obligations and risks, product liability and intellectual property litigation losses, reimbursement levels from third-party payors, general industry and market conditions and growth rates and general domestic and international economic conditions including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations. For a further list and description of such risks and uncertainties, see our periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We disclaim any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be set forth in our periodic reports. Readers of this document are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, since, while we believe the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.
 
 
 
Note: Reflects the adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board Interpretation No. 48 as of January 1, 2007.
 
Consolidated cash flows for the six months ended June 30, 2007 include the correction of an error in presentation of $20.2 million, which had previously been reported in the first quarter of 2007 as a component of the change in receivables in operating cash flows and is now appropriately reported as proceeds from employee stock compensation in financing cash flows for the six-month period.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Projected Three Months Ended September 30, 2007:


