FILE:ZMH/ZMH-8K-20071002171056.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On September 27, 2007, Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (the "Company") announced that it had settled an ongoing federal investigation into its financial relationships with consulting orthopaedic surgeons with the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of New Jersey. As part of the settlement, the Company has entered into: (i) a civil settlement agreement with the U.S. Department of Justice on behalf of the Office of Inspector General (the "OIG") of the Department of Health and Human Services (the "Settlement Agreement"), (ii) a corporate integrity agreement with the OIG (the "Corporate Integrity Agreement"), and (iii) a deferred prosecution agreement with the United States Attorney's Office for the District of New Jersey (the "Deferred Prosecution Agreement").
     Pursuant to the terms of the Settlement Agreement, the Company settled civil and administrative claims related to the federal investigation for a cash payment to the United States government of $169.5 million (the "Settlement Payment"), without any admission of wrongdoing by the Company. The Company expects to record an expense of $169.5 million in the third quarter in connection with the settlement. As part of the Settlement Agreement, the Company also agreed to enter into the Corporate Integrity Agreement. The Corporate Integrity Agreement acknowledges the existence of the Company's corporate compliance program and provides for certain other compliance-related activities during the five-year term of the agreement.
     As part of the settlement, the Company also entered into the Deferred Prosecution Agreement, under which the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of New Jersey has agreed not to pursue any criminal charges against the Company if the Company makes the Settlement Payment and complies with the terms of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement. In addition, the Company will be subject to oversight by a federal monitor appointed by the U.S. Department of Justice for the 18-month term of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement.
     The foregoing description of the Settlement Agreement, the Corporate Integrity Agreement and the Deferred Prosecution Agreement is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of such agreements, which are filed hereto as Exhibit 10.1, 10.2 and 10.3, respectively, and are incorporated herein by reference.
FORWARD LOOKING STATEMENTS
     This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the orthopaedics industry, management's beliefs and assumptions made by management. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as "may," "will," "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "assumes," "guides," "targets," "forecasts," and "seeks" or the negative of such terms or other variations on such terms or comparable terminology. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, the impact of our settlement of the federal investigation into financial relationships with consulting surgeons, including our compliance with the Deferred Prosecution Agreement
 
through March 2009 and the Corporate Integrity Agreement through 2012, the outcome of the Department of Justice Antitrust Division investigation announced in June 2006, price and product competition, rapid technological development, demographic changes, dependence on new product development, the mix of our products and services, supply and prices of raw materials and products, customer demand for our products and services, control of costs and expenses, our ability to form and implement alliances, international growth, governmental laws and regulations affecting our U.S. and international businesses, including tax obligations and risks, product liability and intellectual property litigation losses, reimbursement levels from third-party payors, general industry and market conditions and growth rates and general domestic and international economic conditions including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations. For a further list and description of such risks and uncertainties, see our periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We disclaim any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be set forth in our periodic reports. Readers of this document are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, since, while we believe the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
     On September 27, 2007, the Company issued a press release announcing that it had settled the ongoing federal investigation into its financial relationships with consulting orthopaedic surgeons. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference in response to this Item 7.01.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (d)     Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 2, 2007
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
     This Settlement Agreement ("Agreement") is entered into among the United States of America, acting through the United States Department of Justice and on behalf of the Office of Inspector General ("OIG-HHS") of the Department of Health and Human Services ("HHS") (collectively the "United States"); and Zimmer Holdings, Inc. on behalf of its wholly owned subsidiary, Zimmer, Inc. (Zimmer Holdings, Inc. and Zimmer, Inc. are hereinafter, all of the above, collectively referred to as "Zimmer") (hereinafter referred to as "the Parties"), through their authorized representatives.
     As a preamble to this Agreement, the Parties agree to the following:
          A. Zimmer Holdings, Inc. is a publically traded Delaware corporation headquartered in Warsaw, Indiana. Zimmer, Inc. is a wholly owned subsidiary of Zimmer Holdings, Inc. and also headquartered in Warsaw, Indiana. Zimmer manufactures and distributes orthopaedic medical devices.
          B. The United States contends that Zimmer caused to be submitted improper claims for payment to the Medicare Program (Medicare), Title XVIII of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C.  1395-1395hhh.
          C. The United States contends that it has certain civil claims, as specified in Section III, Paragraph 5, below, against Zimmer for engaging in the following conduct during the period from January 1, 2002 to December 31, 2006 (hereinafter the "Covered Conduct"):
Settlement Agreement Between the United States of America and Zimmer Holdings, Inc.
 
               Zimmer used, and conspired to use, various forms of financial arrangements to induce orthopaedic surgeons to cause providers to use Zimmer's hip and knee joint replacement implants in order to maintain and increase Zimmer's market share. These financial arrangements came in the form of fee-for-service contracts, fixed fee contracts, and product development contracts, among others. The United States contends that certain of these financial arrangements were improper, that the remuneration paid thereunder was improper and/or unlawful, and that these arrangements caused hospitals and physicians to submit false and fraudulent claims for replacement of hip and knee joints using Zimmer implants to Medicare.
          D. The United States contends also that it has certain administrative claims, as specified in Section III, Paragraph 6, against Zimmer for engaging in the Covered Conduct.
          E. Zimmer denies that it engaged in any wrongdoing and specifically denies that any of the payments, services, or remuneration were illegal, improper, or resulted in any false or fraudulent claims.
          F. This Agreement is neither an admission of any facts or liability by Zimmer nor a concession by the United States that its claims are not well founded.
          G. To avoid the delay, uncertainty, inconvenience, and expense of protracted litigation of the above claims, the Parties mutually desire to reach a full and final settlement pursuant to the Terms and Conditions below.
     NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual promises, covenants, and obligations set forth below, and for good and valuable consideration as stated herein, the Parties agree as follows:
Settlement Agreement Between the United States of America and Zimmer Holdings, Inc.
 
               1. Zimmer agrees to pay to the United States $169,523,904 (ONE HUNDRED SIXTY-NINE MILLION, FIVE HUNDRED TWENTY-THREE THOUSAND, NINE HUNDRED AND FOUR dollars ) (the "Settlement Amount"). Zimmer agrees to pay the Settlement Amount by electronic funds transfer pursuant to written instructions to be provided by the United States Attorney's Office for the District of New Jersey. Zimmer shall make this electronic funds transfer no later than four o'clock in the afternoon (4:00 p.m.) EST on September 28, 2007.
               2. Zimmer has executed contemporaneously with this Agreement, a Deferred Prosecution Agreement ("DPA") with the United States which is annexed hereto as Exhibit A and incorporated herein by reference.
               3. Default. In the event that Zimmer breaches the terms of this Agreement or the DPA (as defined in Paragraph 51 of the DPA), Zimmer shall be in Default of its obligations under this Agreement ("Default"). The United States will provide written notice of the Default, and Zimmer shall have an opportunity to cure such Default within fourteen (14) days from the date of receipt of the notice. Notice of Default will be delivered to counsel for Zimmer, or to such other representative as Zimmer shall designate in advance in writing.
               4. Exclusion. In the event a Default is not cured within fourteen (14) day period specified in Paragraph 3, above, the OIG-HHS may exclude Zimmer from participating in all Federal health care programs. Such exclusion shall have national effect and shall also apply to all other federal procurement and nonprocurement programs. Federal health care programs shall not pay anyone for services, including administrative and management services, or items manufactured, furnished, or distributed by Zimmer in any capacity while Zimmer is excluded.
Settlement Agreement Between the United States of America and Zimmer Holdings, Inc.
 
This payment prohibition applies to Zimmer and all other individuals and entities (including, for example, anyone who employs or contracts with Zimmer, and any hospital or other provider where Zimmer provides services). The exclusion applies regardless of who submits the claim or other request for payment. Zimmer shall not submit or cause to be submitted to any Federal health care program any claim or request for payment for services or items manufactured, furnished, or distributed by Zimmer during the exclusion. Violation of the conditions of the exclusion may result in criminal prosecution, the imposition of civil monetary penalties and assessments, and an additional period of exclusion. Zimmer further agrees to hold the Federal health care programs, and all federal beneficiaries and/or sponsors, harmless from any financial responsibility for services or items manufactured, furnished or distributed to such providers, beneficiaries or sponsors after the effective date of the exclusion. Zimmer waives any further notice of the exclusion under 42 U.S.C.  1320a-7(b)(7), and agrees not to contest such exclusion either administratively or in any state or federal court. Reinstatement to program participation is not automatic. If at the end of the period of exclusion Zimmer wishes to apply for reinstatement, Zimmer must submit a written request for reinstatement to the OIG in accordance with the provisions of 42 C.F.R.  1001.3001-.3005. Zimmer will not be reinstated unless and until the OIG approves such request for reinstatement.
          5. Subject to the exceptions in Paragraph 7, below, in consideration of the obligations of Zimmer set forth in this Agreement, conditioned upon Zimmer's full payment of the Settlement Amount, the United States (on behalf of itself, its officers, agents, agencies, and departments) agrees to release Zimmer together with its current and former parent corporations; direct and indirect subsidiaries; brother or sister corporations; divisions; and affiliates; and the
Settlement Agreement Between the United States of America and Zimmer Holdings, Inc.
 
predecessors, successors and assigns of any of them from any civil or administrative monetary claim the United States has or may have under the False Claims Act, 31 U.S.C.  3729-3733; the Antikickback Act, 41 U.S.C.  55; the Civil Monetary Penalties Law, 42 U.S.C.  1320a-7a; the Program Fraud Civil Remedies Act, 31 U.S.C.  3801-3812; and any statutory provision applicable to the federally-funded programs in this Agreement for which the Civil Division, United States Department of Justice has actual and present authority to assert and compromise pursuant to 28 C.F.R. Part 0, Subpart I,  0.45(d); and common law claims including payment by mistake, unjust enrichment, and disgorgement or fraud, breach of contract and recoupment for the Covered Conduct
               6. In consideration of the obligations of Zimmer set forth in this Agreement and in the Corporate Integrity Agreement ("CIA") entered into between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, and conditioned upon Zimmer's full payment of the Settlement Amount, the OIG-HHS agrees to release and refrain from instituting, directing, or maintaining any administrative claim or action seeking exclusion from Medicare, Medicaid, and other Federal health care programs (as defined in 42 U.S.C.  1320a-7b(f)) against Zimmer, together with its current and former parent corporations; direct and indirect subsidiaries; brother or sister corporations; divisions; and affiliates; and the predecessors, successors and assigns of any of them, under 42 U.S.C.  1320a-7a (Civil Monetary Penalties Law) or 42 U.S.C.  1320a-7(b)(7) (permissive exclusion for fraud, kickbacks, and other prohibited activities) for the Covered Conduct, except as reserved in Paragraph 7, below, and as reserved in this Paragraph. The OIG-HHS expressly reserves all rights to comply with any statutory obligations to exclude Zimmer, together with its current and former parent corporations; each of its direct and indirect subsidiaries; brother or sister
Settlement Agreement Between the United States of America and Zimmer Holdings, Inc.
 
corporations; divisions; current or former owners, officers, directors, and affiliates; and the successors and assigns of any of them, from Medicare, Medicaid, or other Federal health care programs under 42 U.S.C.  1320a-7(a) (mandatory exclusion) based upon the Covered Conduct. Nothing in this Paragraph precludes the OIG-HHS from taking action against entities or persons, or for conduct and practices, for which claims have been reserved in Paragraph 7, below.
               7. Notwithstanding any term of this Agreement, specifically reserved and excluded from the scope and terms of this Agreement as to any entity or person (including Zimmer) are the following:
                    a. Any civil, criminal, or administrative liability arising under Title 26, U.S. Code (Internal Revenue Code);
                    b. Any criminal liability;
                    c. Except as explicitly stated in this Agreement, any administrative liability, including mandatory exclusion from Federal health care programs;
                    d. Any liability to the United States (or its agencies) for any conduct other than the Covered Conduct;
                    e. Any liability based upon such obligations as are created by this Agreement;
                    f. Any liability for personal injury or property damage or for other consequential damages arising from the Covered Conduct;
                    g. Any liability for failure to deliver goods or services due;
                    h. Any liability of individuals, including officers and employees; and
Settlement Agreement Between the United States of America and Zimmer Holdings, Inc.
 
                    i. Any liability for express or implied warranty claims or other claims for defective or deficient products or services.
               8. Zimmer waives and shall not assert any defenses Zimmer may have to any criminal prosecution or administrative action relating to the Covered Conduct, which defenses may be based in whole or in part on a contention that, under the Double Jeopardy Clause in the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution, or under the Excessive Fines Clause in the Eighth Amendment of the Constitution, this Agreement bars a remedy sought in such criminal prosecution or administrative action. Nothing in this Paragraph or any other provision of this Agreement constitutes an agreement by the United States concerning the characterization of the Settlement Amount for purposes of the Internal Revenue laws, Title 26 of the United States Code.
               9. Zimmer, together with its current and former parent corporations; each of its direct and indirect subsidiaries; brother or sister corporations; divisions; current or former owners, officers, directors, and affiliates; and the successors and assigns of any of them, fully and finally releases the United States, its agencies, employees, servants, and agents from any claims (including attorney's fees, costs, and expenses of every kind and however denominated) that Zimmer, together with its current and former parent corporations; each of its direct and indirect subsidiaries; brother or sister corporations; divisions; current or former owners, officers, directors, and affiliates; and the predecessors, successors and assigns of any of them, has asserted, could have asserted, or may assert in the future against the United States, its agencies, employees, servants, and agents, related to the Covered Conduct and the United States' investigation and prosecution thereof.
Settlement Agreement Between the United States of America and Zimmer Holdings, Inc.
 
               10. The Settlement Amount shall not be decreased as a result of the denial of claims for payment now being withheld from payment by any Medicare carrier or intermediary or any state payer, related to the Covered Conduct; and, if applicable, Zimmer agrees not to resubmit to any Medicare carrier or intermediary or any state payer any previously denied claims related to the Covered Conduct, and agrees not to appeal any such denials of claims.
               11. Zimmer agrees to the following:
                    a.  That all costs (as defined in the Federal Acquisition Regulation, 48 C.F.R.  31.205-47; and in Titles XVIII and XIX of the Social Security Act, 42 U.S.C.  1395-1395hhh and 1396-1396v; and the regulations and official program directives promulgated thereunder) incurred by or on behalf of Zimmer, together with its current and former parent corporations; each of its direct and indirect subsidiaries; brother or sister corporations; divisions; current or former owners, officers, directors, employees, shareholders, agents, and affiliates; and the predecessors, successors and assigns of any of them in connection with the following shall be "unallowable costs" on government contracts and under the Medicare Program, Medicaid Program, TRICARE Program, and Federal Employees Health Benefits Program (FEHBP):
Unallowable Costs Defined:
                         (1) the matters covered by this Agreement and any related plea or deferred prosecution agreement;
                         (2) the United States' audit(s) and civil and any criminal investigation(s) of the matters covered by this Agreement;
Settlement Agreement Between the United States of America and Zimmer Holdings, Inc.
 
                         (3) Zimmer's investigation, defense, and corrective actions undertaken in response to the United States' audit(s) and civil and any criminal investigation(s) in connection with the matters covered by this Agreement (including attorney's fees);
                         (4) the negotiation and performance of this Agreement and any plea or deferred prosecution agreement;
                         (5) the payment Zimmer makes to the United States pursuant to this Agreement, including any costs and attorneys fees; and
                         (6) the negotiation of, and obligations undertaken pursuant to the CIA to:
                              (i) retain an independent review organization to perform annual reviews as described in Section III of the CIA; and
                              (ii) prepare and submit reports to the OIG-HHS. However, nothing in this Paragraph 1 l.a.(6) that may apply to the obligations undertaken pursuant to the CIA affects the status of costs that are not allowable based on any other authority applicable to Zimmer. (All costs described or set forth in this Paragraph 11.a. are hereafter "unallowable costs.")
                    b.  If applicable, these unallowable costs shall be separately determined and accounted for by Zimmer, and Zimmer shall not charge such unallowable costs directly or indirectly to any contracts with the United States or any State Medicaid program, or seek payment for such unallowable costs through any cost report, cost statement, information statement, or payment request submitted by Zimmer or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates to the Medicare, Medicaid, TRICARE, or FEHBP Programs.
Future Treatment of Unallowable Costs:
Settlement Agreement Between the United States of America and Zimmer Holdings, Inc.
 
                    c. : If applicable, Zimmer further agrees that within 90 days of the Effective Date of this Agreement it shall identify to applicable Medicare and TRICARE fiscal intermediaries, carriers, and/or contractors, and Medicaid and FEHBP fiscal agents, any unallowable costs (as defined in this Paragraph) included in payments previously sought from the United States, or any State Medicaid program, including, but not limited to, payments sought in any cost reports, cost statements, information reports, or payment requests already submitted by Zimmer or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, and shall request, and agree, that such cost reports, cost statements, information reports, or payment requests, even if already settled, be adjusted to account for the effect of the inclusion of the unallowable costs. Zimmer agrees that the United States, at a minimum, shall be entitled to recoup from Zimmer any overpayment plus applicable interest and penalties as a result of the inclusion of such unallowable costs on previously-submitted cost reports, information reports, cost statements, or requests for payment.
Treatment of Unallowable Costs Previously Submitted for Payment
     Any payments due after the adjustments have been made shall be paid to the United States pursuant to the direction of the Department of Justice and/or the affected agencies. The United States reserves its rights to disagree with any calculations submitted by Zimmer or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates on the effect of inclusion of unallowable costs (as defined in this Paragraph) on Zimmer or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates' cost reports, cost statements, or information reports. Nothing in this Agreement shall constitute a waiver of the rights of the United States to examine or reexamine the unallowable costs described in this Paragraph.
Settlement Agreement Between the United States of America and Zimmer Holdings, Inc.
 
               12. This Agreement is intended to be for the benefit of the Parties only. The Parties do not release any claims against any other person or entity, except to the extent provided for in Paragraphs 5, 6 and 13.
               13. Zimmer waives and shall not seek payment for any of the health care billings covered by this Agreement from any health care beneficiaries or their parents, sponsors, legally responsible individuals, or third party payors based upon the claims defined as Covered Conduct.
               14. Zimmer warrants that it has reviewed its financial situation and that it currently is solvent within the meaning of 11 U.S.C.  547(b)(3) and 548(a)(l)(B)(ii)(I), and shall remain solvent following its payment to the United States of the Settlement Amount. Further, the Parties warrant that, in evaluating whether to execute this Agreement, they (a) have intended that the mutual promises, covenants, and obligations set forth constitute a contemporaneous exchange for new value given to Zimmer, within the meaning of 11 U.S.C.  547(c)(1); and (b) conclude that these mutual promises, covenants, and obligations do, in fact, constitute such a contemporaneous exchange. Further, the Parties warrant that the mutual promises, covenants, and obligations set forth herein are intended to and do, in fact, represent a reasonably equivalent exchange of value that is not intended to hinder, delay, or defraud any entity to which Zimmer was or became indebted, on or after the date of this transfer, all within the meaning of 11 U.S.C.  548(a)(1).
               15. Each Party to this Agreement shall bear its own legal and other costs incurred in connection with this matter, including the preparation and performance of this Agreement.
Settlement Agreement Between the United States of America and Zimmer Holdings, Inc.
 
               16. Zimmer represents that this Agreement is freely and voluntarily entered into without any degree of duress or compulsion whatsoever.
               17. This Agreement is governed by the laws of the United States. The Parties agree that the exclusive jurisdiction and venue for any dispute arising between and among the Parties under this Agreement is the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, except that disputes arising under the CIA shall be resolved exclusively under the dispute resolution provisions in the CIA.
               18. This Agreement and any other agreement incorporated herein by reference, including the DPA, constitute the complete agreement between the Parties. This Agreement may not be amended except by written consent of the Parties, except that only the OIG-HHS and Zimmer must agree in writing to a modification of the terms of the CIA.
               19. The individuals signing this Agreement on behalf of Zimmer represent and warrant that they are authorized by Zimmer to execute this Agreement. The United States signatories represent that they are signing this Agreement in their official capacities and that they are authorized to execute this Agreement.
               20. This Agreement may be executed in counterparts, each of which constitutes an original and all of which constitute one and the same Agreement.
               21. This Agreement is binding on Zimmer's successors, transferees, heirs, and assigns.
               22. This Agreement is effective on the later of (1) the date of signature of the last signatory to the Agreement; or (2) the date the Court approves the DPA ("Effective Date" of
Settlement Agreement Between the United States of America and Zimmer Holdings, Inc.
 
the Agreement). Facsimiles of signatures shall constitute acceptable, binding signatures for purposes of this Agreement.
[SIGNATURE BLOCKS ON FOLLOWING PAGE].
Settlement Agreement Between the United States of America and Zimmer Holdings, Inc.
 
Settlement Agreement Between the United States of America and Zimmer Holdings, Inc.
 
Settlement Agreement Between the United States of America and Zimmer Holdings, Inc.

 
Exhibit 10.2
I.
Preamble
     Zimmer, Inc. and Zimmer Holding, Inc (collectively Zimmer) hereby enter into this CIA with the Office of Inspector General (OIG) of the United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) to promote compliance by its officers, directors, employees, contractors, and agents with the statutes, regulations, and written directives of Medicare, Medicaid, and all other Federal health care programs (as defined in 42 U.S.C.  1320a-7b(f)) (Federal health care program requirements). Contemporaneously with this CIA, Zimmer is entering into a Settlement Agreement and Deferred Prosecution Agreement (DPA) with the United States. This CIA shall apply only to U.S. operations of Zimmer that are subject to U.S. Federal health care program requirements.
     Zimmer represented to the OIG that, prior to the effective date of this CIA, Zimmer established a voluntary compliance program, which includes a corporate compliance officer, a corporate compliance committee, a Code of Business Conduct for all employees, written policies and procedures, educational and training initiatives, review and disciplinary procedures, a confidential disclosure program, an ineligible persons screening program, internal audit and review procedures, an annual needs assessment, a process to pre-approve consultant services, an arrangements database, and a fair market value analysis by an independent expert in valuation. Zimmer agrees to continue the operation of its compliance program in accordance with the terms set forth below for the term of this CIA.
II.
Term and Scope of the CIA
     A. The period of the compliance obligations assumed by Zimmer under this CIA shall be 5 years from the effective date of this CIA, unless otherwise specified. The effective date shall be the date on which the final signatory of this CIA executes this CIA (Effective Date). Each one-year period, beginning with the one-year period following the Effective Date, shall be referred to as the "Reporting Period."
 
     B. Sections VII, VIII, IX, X, and XI shall expire no later than 120 days after OIG's receipt of: (1) Zimmer's final annual report; or (2) any additional materials submitted by Zimmer pursuant to OIG's request, whichever is later.
     C. The scope of this CIA shall be governed by the following definitions:
a. "Contractual Arrangements" shall mean every Arrangement that is contractual in nature and shall include all Arrangements related to the provision of services to Zimmer, including but not limited to, training, education, consulting, research, clinical studies, focus groups, physician advisory boards as well as intellectual property, grants, and charitable contributions.
b. "Non-Contractual Arrangements" shall mean all Arrangements that are not Contractual Arrangements.
a. all officers, directors and employees of Zimmer, including but not limited to, Zimmer's CEO and President and all members of Zimmer's respective management inclusive of senior vice presidents, vice presidents, directors, and managers;
b. all contractors, subcontractors, agents, and other persons who, on behalf of Zimmer, perform functions related to the sale or marketing
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
of items or services reimbursable by Federal health care programs; and
c. all individuals that sell or market on behalf of Zimmer items or services for which reimbursement may be made by the Federal health care programs.
Notwithstanding the above, this term does not include part-time or per diem employees, contractors, subcontractors, agents, and other persons who are not reasonably expected to work more than 160 hours per year, except that any such individuals shall become "Covered Persons" at the point when they work more than 160 hours during the calendar year.
3. "Arrangements Covered Persons" includes Covered Persons involved in the development, approval, management, implementation, use, or review of any of Zimmer's Arrangements.
III.
Corporate Integrity Obligations
     Zimmer shall implement or maintain a compliance program that includes the following elements during the term of the CIA:
     A. .
Compliance Officer and Committee
          1. . Zimmer represented to the OIG that, prior to the Effective Date of this CIA, Zimmer appointed a Compliance Officer who is responsible for developing and implementing policies, procedures, and practices designed to ensure compliance with Federal health care program requirements. Zimmer shall maintain a Compliance Officer for the term of the CIA and the Compliance Officer shall be responsible for developing and implementing policies, procedures, and practices designed to ensure compliance with the requirements set forth in this CIA. The Zimmer Compliance Officer shall be a member of senior management, shall make periodic (at least quarterly) reports regarding compliance matters directly to Zimmer's Board of Directors and shall be authorized to report on compliance matters to Zimmer's Board of Directors at any time. The Compliance Officer shall not be or be subordinate to Zimmer's General Counsel or Chief Financial Officer. The Compliance Officer shall be
Compliance Officer
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
responsible for monitoring the day-to-day compliance activities engaged in by Zimmer as well as for any reporting obligations imposed upon Zimmer under this CIA.
          Zimmer shall report to OIG, in writing, any changes in the identity or position description of the Compliance Officer, or any actions or changes that would affect the Compliance Officer's ability to perform the duties necessary to meet the obligations in this CIA, within 15 days after such a change.
          2. . Within 90 days after the Effective Date, Zimmer shall appoint a Compliance Committee. The Compliance Committee shall, at a minimum, include the Compliance Officer and other members of senior management necessary to meet the requirements of this CIA (e.g., senior executives of relevant departments, such as finance, human resources, legal, sales, and operations). The Compliance Officer shall chair the Compliance Committee and the Compliance Committee shall support the Compliance Officer in fulfilling his or her responsibilities (e.g., assist in the analysis of Zimmer's risk areas and oversee monitoring of internal and external audits and investigations).
Compliance Committee
     Zimmer shall report to OIG, in writing, any changes in the composition of the Compliance Committee, or any actions or changes that would affect the Compliance Committee's ability to perform the duties necessary to meet the obligations in this CIA, within 15 days after such a change.
     B. .
Written Standards
          1. . Zimmer represented to the OIG that, prior to the Effective Date of this CIA, Zimmer developed a Code of Business Conduct ("the Code of Conduct"). Zimmer shall make the promotion of, and adherence to, the Code of Business Conduct ("Code of Conduct") an element in evaluating the performance of all employees. To the extent not already addressed in the Code of Conduct, within 90 days of the Effective Date, the Code of Conduct shall be revised to include, at a minimum, the following elements:
Code of Conduct
a. Zimmer's commitment to full compliance with all federal, state and
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
local laws and regulations (which includes Federal health care program requirements);
b. Zimmer's requirement that all Covered Persons shall be expected to comply with all Federal health care program requirements and with Zimmer's own Policies and Procedures as implemented pursuant to this Section III.B (including the requirements of this CIA);
c. the requirement that all Covered Persons shall be expected to report to their Compliance Officer, or other appropriate individuals designated by Zimmer, suspected violations of any Federal health care program requirements or of Zimmer's own Policies and Procedures;
d. the possible consequences to Zimmer and Covered Persons of failure to comply with all Federal health care program requirements and with Zimmer's Policies and Procedures and the failure to report such non-compliance; and
e. the right of all individuals to use the Disclosure Program described in Section III.F, and Zimmer's commitment to nonretaliation and to maintain, as appropriate, confidentiality and anonymity with respect to such disclosures.
     Within 90 days after the Effective Date, Zimmer shall distribute the Code of Conduct (revised as necessary to include the elements set forth above) to each Covered Person and each Covered Person will certify, in writing or electronically, that he or she has received, read, understood and shall abide by Zimmer's Code of Conduct. Zimmer may distribute the Code of Conduct and the required certification to each Covered Person either electronically or in hard-copy form. New Covered Persons shall receive the Code of Conduct and shall complete the required certification within 30 days after becoming a Covered Person or within 90 days after the Effective Date, whichever is later.
     Zimmer shall periodically review the Code of Conduct to determine if revisions are appropriate and shall make any necessary revisions based on such review. Any revised Code of Conduct shall be distributed within 30 days after any revisions are finalized. Each Covered Person shall certify, in writing or electronically, that he or she
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
has received, read, understood, and shall abide by the revised Code of Conduct within 30 days after the distribution of the revised Code of Conduct.
          2. . Within 90 days after the Effective Date, Zimmer shall implement written Policies and Procedures regarding the operation of Zimmer's compliance program and its compliance with Federal health care program requirements. At a minimum, the Policies and Procedures shall address:
Policies and Procedures
a. the subjects relating to the Code of Conduct identified in Section III.B.1;
b. the expectation that all Covered Persons shall comply with the Code of Conduct, the Policies and Procedures required under this Section, and this CIA;
c. 42 U.S.C.  1320a-7b(b) (Anti-Kickback Statute) and the regulations and other guidance documents related to this statute, and business or financial arrangements or contracts that may violate the Anti-Kickback Statute, and the applicability of the Anti-Kickback Statute to Arrangements as that term is defined in Section II.C.1; and
d. the requirements set forth in Section III.D (Compliance with the Anti-Kickback Statute), including but not limited to the Arrangements Database, the internal review and approval process, and the tracking of remuneration to and from sources of health care business or referrals.
     Within 90 days after the Effective Date, the relevant portions of the Policies and Procedures shall be distributed to all individuals whose job functions relate to those Policies and Procedures. Distribution may include publishing such Policies and Procedures on Zimmer's intranet or other internal web sites available to all employees. If Zimmer uses such an electronic method of distribution, it must notify the individuals receiving the Policies and Procedures that the Policies and Procedures will be distributed in such a manner, and it must adopt tracking procedures designed to track the distribution and reasonably ensure that all appropriate individuals received the Policies and Procedures. Appropriate and knowledgeable staff shall be available to explain the Policies and Procedures.
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
     At least annually (and more frequently, if appropriate), Zimmer shall assess and update, as necessary, the Policies and Procedures. Within 30 days after the effective date of any revisions, the relevant portions of any such revised Policies and Procedures shall be distributed to all Covered Persons whose job functions relate to those Policies and Procedures.
     C. .
Training and Education
          1. . Within 90 days after the Effective Date, Zimmer shall provide at least two hours of General Training to each Covered Person. This training, at a minimum, shall explain Zimmer's:
General Training
a. CIA requirements; and
b. Compliance Program (including the Code of Conduct and the Policies and Procedures as they pertain to general compliance issues).
     New Covered Persons shall receive the General Training described above within 30 days after becoming a Covered Person or within 90 days after the Effective Date, whichever is later. After receiving the initial General Training described above, each Covered Person shall receive at least one hour of General Training in each subsequent Reporting Period.
          2. . Within 90 days after the Effective Date, each Arrangements Covered Person shall receive at least three hours of Arrangements Training, in addition to the General Training required above. The Arrangements Training shall include a discussion of:
Arrangements Training
a. Arrangements that potentially implicate the Anti-Kickback Statute, as well as the regulations and other guidance documents related to this statute;
b. Zimmer's policies, procedures, and other requirements relating to Arrangements, including but not limited to the Arrangements Database, the internal review and approval process, and the tracking of remuneration to and from sources of health care business or referrals required by Section III.D of the CIA;
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
c. the personal obligation of each individual involved in the development, approval, management, implementation, use, or review of Zimmer's Arrangements to know the applicable legal requirements and Zimmer's policies and procedures;
d. the legal sanctions under the Anti-Kickback Statute; and
e. examples of violations of the Anti-Kickback Statute.
     New Arrangements Covered Persons shall receive this training within 30 days after the beginning of their employment or becoming Arrangements Covered Persons, or within 90 days after the Effective Date, whichever is later. A Zimmer employee who has completed the Arrangements Training shall review a new Arrangements Covered Person's work until such time as the new Arrangements Covered Person completes his or her Arrangements Training.
     After receiving the initial Arrangements Training described in this Section, each Arrangements Covered Person shall receive at least two hours of Arrangements Training in each subsequent Reporting Period.
          3. Each individual who is required to attend training pursuant to this Section III.C shall, upon completion of the training, certify, in writing or in electronic form, that he or she has received the required training. The certification shall specify the type of training received and the date received. The Compliance Officer (or designee) shall retain the certifications, along with all course materials. These shall be made available to OIG, upon request.
Certification.
          4. Persons providing the training required by this Section III.C shall be knowledgeable about the subject area.
Qualifications of Trainer.
          5. At least annually, Zimmer shall review the training programs developed to satisfy the requirements of this Section III.C, and, where appropriate, update the training to reflect changes in Federal health care program requirements, any issues discovered during internal audits or the Arrangements Review, and any other relevant information.
Update of Training.
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
          6. . Zimmer may provide the training required under this CIA through videotape, DVD, appropriate computer-based training approaches, or other comparable methods not involving in-person training. If Zimmer chooses to provide training pursuant to any such method, they shall also make available at reasonable times appropriately qualified and knowledgeable staff or trainers to answer questions or provide additional information to the individuals receiving such training.
Training Methods
          7. Independent Distributors. Where a Covered Persons or Arrangements Covered Persons is an independent distributor, the General Training obligations under this CIA shall be met so long as the training is provided to a member of management of the independent distributor. Zimmer shall request, and with respect to all new distributor agreements entered into after the Effective Date, require the independent distributor to take reasonable steps to apprise its employees and other personnel regarding the content of the training. In addition, Zimmer shall require such entities to do the following:
a. agree to abide by the Code of Conduct or adopt its own Code of Conduct addressing substantially all of the requirements of Section III.B.1;
b. distribute the following materials to its employees and subcontractors working on Zimmer matters: (1) Zimmer's or its own Code of Conduct; (2) copies of relevant Zimmer policies and procedures relating to the work of the independent distributor; and (3) information about Zimmer's Disclosure Program (including the hotline number);
c. provide either directly or through Zimmer, Anti-Kickback Training (as described in Section III.C.2) to its employees and subcontractors to the extent they are involved with the development, approval, management, implementation, use, or review of any of Zimmer's Arrangements;
d. certify to Zimmer that all employees and subcontractors working on Zimmer matters have: (1) been screened to exclude Ineligible Persons in accordance with the requirements of Section III.G of the CIA; (2) received a copy of Zimmer's Code of Conduct or its own Code of Conduct, information about Zimmer's Disclosure Program (including the hotline number); and (3) to the extent applicable, received Anti-Kickback training.
     D. .
Compliance with the Anti-Kickback Statute
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
          1. . Within 90 days after the Effective Date, Zimmer shall have procedures reasonably designed to ensure that each existing and new or renewed Arrangement, including Contractual Arrangements and Non-Contractual Arrangements, does not violate the Anti-Kickback Statute (taking into account the regulations, directives, and guidance related to this statute) (Arrangements Procedures). These procedures shall include the following:
Arrangements Procedures
a. creating and maintaining a database of all existing and new or renewed Arrangements, including Contractual Arrangements and Non-Contractual Arrangements, that shall contain the information specified in Appendix A (Arrangements Database);
b. tracking remuneration to and from all parties to Arrangements;
c. tracking service and activity logs to ensure that parties to an Arrangement are performing the services required under the applicable Arrangement;
d. monitoring the use of leased space, medical supplies, medical devices, equipment, or other patient care items to ensure that such use is consistent with the terms of the Arrangement (if applicable);
e. establishing and implementing a written review and prior approval process for all Contractual Arrangements, including but not limited to, a legal review by counsel with expertise in the Anti-Kickback Statute and appropriate documentation of all internal controls, the purpose of which is to ensure that all existing and new or renewed Contractual Arrangements do not violate the Anti-Kickback Statute;
f. establishing and implementing a written review and approval process for all Non-Contractual Arrangements, including but not limited to, an annual legal review by counsel with expertise in the Anti-Kickback Statute and appropriate documentation of all internal controls, the purpose of which is to ensure that all Non-Contractual Arrangements do not violate the Anti-Kickback Statute;
g. requiring the Compliance Officer to review the Arrangements Database, internal review and approval process, and other
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
Arrangements Procedures on at least a quarterly basis and to provide a report on the results of such review to the Compliance Committee; and
h. implementing effective responses when suspected violations of the Anti-Kickback Statute are discovered, including disclosing Reportable Events pursuant to Section III.I (Reporting).
          2. . With the exception of Non-Contractual Arrangements, prior to entering into new Arrangements or renewing existing Arrangements, in addition to complying with the Arrangements Procedures set forth above, Zimmer shall comply with the following requirements (Arrangements Requirements):
New or Renewed Arrangements
a. Ensure that each Arrangement is set forth in writing and signed by Zimmer and the other parties to the Arrangement;
b. Include in the written agreement a requirement that all individuals who meet the definition of Covered Persons shall comply with Zimmer's Compliance Program, including the training related to the Anti-Kickback Statute. Additionally, Zimmer shall provide each party to the Arrangement with a copy of its Code of Conduct and Anti-Kickback Statute Policies and Procedures; and
c. Include in the written agreement a certification by the parties to the Arrangement that the parties shall not violate the Anti-Kickback Statute with respect to the performance of the Arrangement.
          3. . Zimmer shall retain and make available to OIG, upon request, the Arrangements Database and all supporting documentation of the Arrangements subject to this Section and, to the extent available, all non-privileged communications related to the Arrangements and the actual performance of the duties under the Arrangements.
Records Retention and Access
     E. .
Review Procedures
          1. .
General Description
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
a. . Within 120 days after the Effective Date, Zimmer shall engage an individual or entity (or entities), such as an auditing, law or consulting firm (hereinafter "Independent Review Organization" or "IRO"), to perform a review to assist Zimmer in assessing its compliance with the obligations pursuant to Section III.D of this CIA (Arrangements Review). For the purposes of this Section III.E, "Zimmer" shall not include Zimmer Dental, Inc.; Zimmer Orthobiologics, Inc.; Zimmer Spine, Inc.; Endius Incorporated; ISTO Technologies, Inc.; and Zimmer Orthopaedic Surgical Products, Inc.
Engagement of Independent Review Organization
The IRO shall assess, along with Zimmer, whether it can perform the IRO review in a professionally independent and objective fashion, as appropriate to the nature of the engagement, taking into account any other business relationships or other engagements that may exist. The engagement of the IRO for the Arrangements Review shall not be deemed to create an attorney-client relationship between Zimmer and the IRO. The other applicable requirements relating to the IRO(s) are outlined in Appendix B to this CIA, which is incorporated by reference.
b. . The Arrangements Review shall be performed annually and shall cover each of the Reporting Periods. The IRO(s) shall perform all components of each annual Arrangements Review.
Frequency of Arrangements Review
c. . The IRO and Zimmer shall retain and make available to OIG, upon request, all work papers, supporting documentation, correspondence, and draft reports (those exchanged between the IRO and Zimmer) related to the reviews.
Retention of Records
d. . Nothing in this Section III.E affects Zimmer's responsibilities or liabilities under any criminal, civil, or administrative laws or regulations applicable to any Federal health care program including, but not limited to, the Anti-Kickback Statute.
Responsibilities and Liabilities
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
          2. . The IRO shall perform a review to assess whether Zimmer is complying with the Arrangements Procedures and Arrangements Requirements required by Sections III.D.1 and III.D.2 of this CIA. The IRO shall randomly select a sample of 75 Arrangements that were entered into or renewed during the Reporting Period. The IRO shall assess whether Zimmer has implemented the Arrangements Procedures and, for each selected Arrangement, the IRO shall assess whether Zimmer has complied with the Arrangements Procedures and Arrangements Requirements specifically with respect to that Arrangement. The IRO's assessment shall include, but is not limited to: (a) verifying that the Arrangement is listed in the Arrangements Database; (b) verifying that the Arrangement was subject to the internal review and approval process (including both a legal and business review) and obtained the necessary approvals and that such review and approval is appropriately documented; (c) verifying that the remuneration related to the Arrangement is properly tracked; (d) verifying that the activity logs are properly completed and reviewed; (e) verifying (if applicable) that leased space, medical supplies, medical devices, and equipment, and other patient care items are properly monitored; (f) verifying that the Compliance Officer is reviewing the Arrangements Database, internal review and approval process, and other Arrangements Procedures on a quarterly basis and reporting the results of such review to the Compliance Committee; (f) verifying that effective responses are being implemented when potential violations of the Anti-Kickback Statute are discovered; and (g) verifying that Zimmer has met the requirements of Section III.D.2.
Arrangements Review
          3. . The IRO shall prepare a report based upon the Arrangements Review performed (Arrangements Review Report). The Arrangements Review Report shall include the IRO's findings with respect to: (a) whether Zimmer has generally implemented the Arrangements Procedures described in Section III.D.1; and (b) specific findings as to whether Zimmer has complied with the Arrangements Procedures and Arrangements Requirements with respect to each of the randomly selected Arrangements reviewed by the IRO. In addition, the Arrangements Review Report shall include observations, findings and recommendations, if any, on possible improvements to Zimmer's policies, procedures, and systems in place to ensure that all Arrangements do not violate the Anti-Kickback Statute.
Arrangements Review Report
          4. . In the event OIG has reason to believe that: (a) Zimmer's Arrangements Review fails to conform to the requirements of this CIA; or (b) the IRO's findings or Arrangements Review results are inaccurate, OIG may, at its sole discretion, conduct its own review to determine whether the Arrangements Review complied with the requirements of the CIA and/or the findings or Arrangements Review
Validation Review
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
results are inaccurate (Validation Review). Zimmer shall pay for the reasonable cost of any such review performed by OIG or any of its designated agents. Any Validation Review of Reports submitted as part of Zimmer's final Annual Report must be initiated no later than one year after Zimmer's final submission (as described in Section II) is received by OIG.
          Prior to initiating a Validation Review, OIG shall notify Zimmer of its intent to do so and provide a written explanation of why OIG believes such a review is necessary. To resolve any concerns raised by OIG, Zimmer may request a meeting with OIG to: (a) discuss the results of any Arrangements Review submissions or findings; (b) present any additional information to clarify the results of the Arrangements Review or to correct the inaccuracy of the Arrangements Review; and/or (c) propose alternatives to the proposed Validation Review. Zimmer agrees to provide any additional information as may be requested by OIG under this Section in an expedited manner. OIG will attempt in good faith to resolve any Arrangements Review issues with Zimmer prior to conducting a Validation Review. However, the final determination as to whether or not to proceed with a Validation Review shall be made at the sole discretion of OIG.
          5. . The IRO shall include in its report(s) to Zimmer a certification or sworn affidavit that it has evaluated its professional independence and objectivity, as appropriate to the nature of the engagement, with regard to the Arrangements Review that it has concluded that it is, in fact, independent and objective.
Independence and Objectivity Certification
          6. . Section III.E requirements will be suspended during the first 18 months of the CIA while the DPA is in effect, unless and until OIG provides notice to Zimmer that the suspension is lifted. In the event that OIG provides notice to Zimmer that Section III.E requirements are no longer suspended, within 90 days Zimmer shall engage an IRO as set forth in Section III.E. Once Zimmer engages an IRO, Zimmer shall provide the following information regarding the IRO:
Suspension of Requirements of Section III.E
          (a) identity, address, and phone number;
          (b) a copy of the engagement letter;
          (c) a summary and description of any and all current and prior engagements and agreements between Zimmer and the IRO; and
          (d) the proposed start and completion dates of the Arrangements Review;
          (e) a certification from the IRO regarding its professional independence and objectivity with respect to Zimmer;
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
          Prior to lifting the suspension of Section III.E requirements, OIG shall notify Zimmer of its intent to do so and provide a written explanation of why OIG believes lifting the suspension of Section III.E requirements is necessary. To resolve any concerns raised by the OIG, Zimmer may request a meeting with the OIG. Zimmer agrees to provide any additional information as may be requested by OIG under this Section in an expedited manner. OIG will attempt in good faith to resolve any concerns raised by the OIG with Zimmer prior to lifting the suspension of Section III.E requirements. However, the final determination as to whether or nor to lift the suspension of Section III.E requirements shall be made at the sole discretion of the OIG.
    F. 
Disclosure Program.
     Zimmer represented to the OIG that, prior to the Effective Date of this CIA, it established a Disclosure Program. Zimmer shall maintain a Disclosure Program that includes a mechanism (e.g., toll-free compliance telephone line) to enable individuals to disclose, to the Compliance Officer or some other person who is not in the disclosing individual's chain of command, any identified issues or questions associated with Zimmer's policies, conduct, practices, or procedures with respect to a Federal health care program believed by the individual to be a potential violation of criminal, civil, or administrative law. Zimmer shall appropriately publicize the existence of the disclosure mechanism (, via periodic e-mails to employees or by posting the information in prominent common areas).
e.g.
     The Disclosure Program shall emphasize a nonretribution, nonretaliation policy and include a reporting mechanism for anonymous communications for which appropriate confidentiality is maintained. Upon receipt of a disclosure, the Compliance Officer (or designee) shall gather all relevant information from the disclosing individual. The Compliance Officer (or designee) shall make a preliminary, good faith inquiry into the allegations set forth in every disclosure to ensure that he or she has obtained all of the information necessary to determine whether a further review should be conducted. For any disclosure that is sufficiently specific so that it reasonably: (1) permits a determination of the appropriateness of the alleged improper practice and (2) provides an opportunity for taking corrective action, the Compliance Officer (or designee) shall conduct an internal review of the allegations set forth in that disclosure and ensure that proper follow-up is conducted.
     Zimmer's Compliance Officer (or designee) shall maintain a disclosure log, which
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
includes a record and summary of each disclosure received (whether anonymous or not), the status of the respective internal reviews, and any corrective action taken in response to the internal reviews. The disclosure log shall be made available to OIG, upon request.
    G. .
Ineligible Persons
          1. . For purposes of this CIA:
Definitions
a. an "Ineligible Person" shall include an individual or entity who:
i. is currently excluded, debarred, suspended, or otherwise ineligible to participate in the Federal health care programs or in Federal procurement or nonprocurement programs; or
ii. has been convicted of a criminal offense that falls within the ambit of 42 U.S.C.  1320a-7(a), but has not yet been excluded, debarred, suspended, or otherwise declared ineligible.
b. "Exclusion Lists" include:
i. the HHS/OIG List of Excluded Individuals/Entities (available through the Internet at ; and
http://oig.hhs.gov)
ii. the General Services Administration's List of Parties Excluded from Federal Programs (available through the Internet at ).
http://epls.arnet.gov
c. "Screened Persons" include all prospective and current owners (other than shareholders who: (1) have an ownership interest of less than 5%; and (2) acquired the ownership interest through public trading), officers, directors, and employees of Zimmer, and all Covered Persons who perform functions related to the sale or marketing of items or services reimbursable by Federal health care programs.
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
          2. Zimmer shall ensure that all Screened Persons are not Ineligible Persons, by implementing the following screening requirements.
Screening Requirements.
a. Zimmer shall screen all Screened Persons against the Exclusion Lists prior to engaging their services and, as part of the hiring or contracting process, shall require such Screened Persons to disclose whether they are an Ineligible Person.
b. Zimmer shall screen all Screened Persons against the Exclusion Lists within 90 days after the Effective Date and on an annual basis thereafter.
c. Zimmer shall implement a policy requiring all Screened Persons to disclose immediately any debarment, exclusion, suspension, or other event that makes that person an Ineligible Person.
          Nothing in this Section affects the responsibility of (or liability for) Zimmer to refrain from billing Federal health care programs for items or services furnished, ordered, or prescribed by an Ineligible Person. Zimmer understands that items or services furnished by excluded persons are not payable by Federal health care programs and that Zimmer may be liable for overpayments and/or criminal, civil, and administrative sanctions for employing or contracting with an excluded person regardless of whether Zimmer meets the requirements of this section III.G.
          3. If Zimmer has actual notice that a Screened Person has become an Ineligible Person, Zimmer shall remove such Screened Person from responsibility for, or involvement with, Zimmer's business operations related to the Federal health care programs and shall remove such Screened Person from any position for which the Screened Person's compensation or the items or services furnished, ordered, or prescribed by the Screened Person are paid in whole or part, directly or indirectly, by Federal health care programs or otherwise with Federal funds at least until such time as the Screened Person is reinstated into participation in the Federal health care programs.
Removal Requirement.
          4. . If Zimmer has actual notice that a Screened Person is charged with a criminal offense that falls within the ambit of 42 U.S.C.  1320a-7(a), 1320a-7(b)(1)-(3), or is proposed for exclusion during his or her employment or contract term, Zimmer shall take all appropriate actions to ensure that the responsibilities of that Screened Person have not and shall not adversely affect the quality
Pending Charges and Proposed Exclusions
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
of care rendered to any beneficiary, patient, or resident, or the accuracy of any claims submitted to any Federal health care program.
    H. .
Notification of Government Investigation or Legal Proceedings
     Within 30 days after discovery, Zimmer shall notify OIG, in writing, of any ongoing investigation or legal proceeding known to Zimmer, conducted or brought by a governmental entity or its agents involving an allegation that Zimmer has committed a crime or has engaged in fraudulent activities. This notification shall include a description of the allegation, the identity of the investigating or prosecuting agency, and the status of such investigation or legal proceeding. Zimmer shall also provide written notice to OIG within 30 days after the resolution of the matter, and shall provide OIG with a description of the findings and/or results of the investigation or proceedings, if any.
    I. .
Reporting
          1.
Reportable Events.
a. . For purposes of this CIA, a "Reportable Event" means anything that involves
Definition of Reportable Event
i. a matter that a reasonable person would consider a probable violation of criminal, civil, or administrative laws applicable to any Federal health care program for which penalties or exclusion may be authorized; or
ii. the filing of a bankruptcy petition by Zimmer.
A Reportable Event may be the result of an isolated event or a series of occurrences.
b. . If Zimmer determines (after a reasonable opportunity to conduct an appropriate review or investigation of the allegations) through any means that there is a Reportable Event, Zimmer shall notify OIG, in writing, within 30 days after making the determination that the Reportable Event exists. The report to OIG shall include the following information:
Reporting of Reportable Events
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
i. a complete description of the Reportable Event, including the relevant facts, persons involved, and legal and Federal health care program authorities implicated;
ii. a description of Zimmer's actions taken to correct the Reportable Event; and
iii. any further steps Zimmer plans to take to address the Reportable Event and prevent it from recurring.
iv. if the Reportable Events involves the filing of a bankruptcy petition, the report to the OIG shall include documentation of the filing and a description of any Federal health care program authorities implicated.
IV.
New Business Units
     In the event that, after the Effective Date, Zimmer sells, closes, purchases, or establishes a new business unit related to the delivery, sale, marketing, or furnishing of items or services that may be reimbursed by Federal health care programs, Zimmer shall notify OIG of this fact as soon as possible, but no later than within 30 days after the date of sale, closure, purchase, or establishment. This notification shall include the address of the new business unit, phone number, fax number, any Medicare Provider number, provider identification number and/or supplier number (if applicable), and the corresponding contractor's name and address that has issued any such Medicare number. Each new business unit shall be subject to all of the requirements under this CIA.
V.
Implementation and Annual Reports
     A. . Within 120 days after the Effective Date, Zimmer shall submit a written report to OIG summarizing the status of its implementation of the requirements of this CIA (Implementation Report). The Implementation Report shall, at a minimum, include:
Implementation Report
          1. the name, address, phone number, and position description of the Compliance Officer required by Section III.A, and a summary of other noncompliance job responsibilities the Compliance Officer may have;
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
          2. the names and positions of the members of the Compliance Committee required by Section III.A;
          3. a copy of the Code of Conduct required by Section III.B.1;
          4. a copy of all Policies and Procedures required by Section III.B.2;
          5. the number of individuals required to complete the Code of Conduct certification required by Section III.B.1, the percentage of individuals who have completed such certification, and an explanation of any exceptions (the documentation supporting this information shall be available to OIG, upon request);
          6. the following information regarding each type of training required by Section III.C:
a. a description of such training, including a summary of the topics covered, the length of sessions and a schedule of training sessions; and
b. the number of individuals required to be trained, percentage of individuals actually trained, and an explanation of any exceptions.
A copy of all training materials and the documentation supporting this information shall be available to OIG, upon request.
          7. a description of the Arrangements Database required by Section III.D.1.a;
          8. a description of the internal review and approval process required by Section III.D.1.e;
          9. a description of the tracking and monitoring procedures and other Arrangements Procedures required by Section III.D.1;
          10. a description of the Disclosure Program required by Section III.F;
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
          11. a description of the process by which Zimmer fulfills the requirements of Section III.G regarding Ineligible Persons;
          12. the name, title, and responsibilities of any person who is determined to be an Ineligible Person under Section III.G; the actions taken in response to the screening and removal obligations set forth in Section III.G; and the actions taken to identify, quantify, and repay any overpayments to Federal health care programs relating to items or services furnished, ordered or prescribed by an Ineligible Person;
          13. a list of all of Zimmer's locations (including locations and mailing addresses); the corresponding name(s) under which each location is doing business; the corresponding phone numbers and fax numbers; each location's Medicare Provider number(s), provider identification number(s), and/or supplier number(s);
          14. a description of Zimmer's corporate structures, including identification of any parent and sister companies, subsidiaries, and their respective lines of business; and
          15. the certifications required by Section V.C.
     B. .
Monitor Reports
          1. Zimmer shall submit to OIG any report or written recommendations produced by the Monitor pursuant to the DPA within 5 days of Zimmer receiving any report or written recommendations from the Monitor.
          2. Zimmer shall submit to OIG any report Zimmer provides to the Monitor pursuant to the DPA at the same time Zimmer provides such documentation to the Monitor.
          3. Any written documentation Zimmer provides to the Monitor pursuant to the DPA shall be made available to the OIG upon request.
     C. . Zimmer shall submit to OIG annually a report with respect to the status of, and findings regarding, Zimmer's compliance activities for each of the five Reporting Periods (Annual Report).
Annual Reports
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
Each Annual Report shall include, at a minimum:
          1. any change in the identity, position description, or other noncompliance job responsibilities of the Compliance Officer and any change in the membership of the Compliance Committee described in Section III.A;
          2. a summary of any significant changes or amendments to the Policies and Procedures required by Section III.B and the reasons for such changes (, change in contractor policy) and copies of any compliance-related Policies and Procedures;
e.g.
          3. the number of individuals required to complete the Code of Conduct certification required by Section III.B.1, the percentage of individuals who have completed such certification, and an explanation of any exceptions (the documentation supporting this information shall be available to OIG, upon request);
          4. the following information regarding each type of training required by Section III.C:
a. a description of such training, including a summary of the topics covered, the length of sessions and a schedule of training sessions;
b. the number of individuals required to be trained, percentage of individuals actually trained, and an explanation of any exceptions.
A copy of all training materials and the documentation supporting this information shall be available to OIG, upon request.
          5. a description of any changes to the Arrangements Database required by Section III.D.1.a;
          6. a description of any changes to the internal review and approval process required by Section III.D.1.e;
          7. a description of any changes to the tracking and monitoring procedures and other Arrangements Procedures required by Section III.D.1;
          8. a complete copy of all reports prepared pursuant to Section III.E, along with a copy of the IRO's engagement letter (if applicable);
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
          9. Zimmer's response and corrective action plan(s) related to any issues raised by the reports prepared pursuant to Section III.E;
          10. a summary and description of any and all current and prior engagements and agreements between Zimmer and the IRO, if different from what was submitted as part of the Implementation Report;
          11. a certification from the IRO regarding its professional independence and objectivity with respect to Zimmer;
          12. a summary of Reportable Events (as defined in Section III.I) identified during the Reporting Period and the status of any corrective and preventative action relating to all such Reportable Events;
          13. a summary of the disclosures in the Disclosure log required by Section III.F that: (a) relate to Federal health care programs; (b) allege abuse or neglect of patients; or (c) involve allegations of conduct that may involve illegal remunerations or inappropriate referrals in violation of the Anti-Kickback Statute;
          14. any changes to the process by which Zimmer fulfills the requirements of Section III.G regarding Ineligible Persons;
          15. the name, title, and responsibilities of any person who is determined to be an Ineligible Person under Section III.G; the actions taken by Zimmer in response to the screening and removal obligations set forth in Section III.G; and the actions taken to identify, quantify, and repay any overpayments to Federal health care programs relating to items or services relating to items or services furnished, ordered or prescribed by an Ineligible Person;
          16. a summary describing any ongoing investigation or legal proceeding required to have been reported pursuant to Section III.H. The summary shall include a description of the allegation, the identity of the investigating or prosecuting agency, and the status of such investigation or legal proceeding;
          17. a description of all changes to the most recently provided list of Zimmer's locations (including addresses) as required by Section V.A.15; the corresponding name(s) under which each location is doing business; the corresponding
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
phone numbers and fax numbers; and each location's Medicare Provider number(s), provider identification number(s), and/or supplier (if applicable); and
number(s)
          18. the certifications required by Section V.C.
     The first Annual Report shall be received by OIG no later than 60 days after the end of the first Reporting Period. Subsequent Annual Reports shall be received by OIG no later than the anniversary date of the due date of the first Annual Report.
     D. . The Implementation Report and Annual Reports shall include a certification by the Compliance Officer and Division President that:
Certifications
          1. to the best of his or her knowledge, except as otherwise described in the applicable report, Zimmer is in compliance with all of the requirements of this CIA;
          2. to the best of his or her knowledge, Zimmer has implemented procedures reasonably designed to ensure that all Arrangements do not violate the Anti-Kickback Statute, including the Arrangements Procedures required in Section III.D of the CIA;
          3. to the best of his or her knowledge, Zimmer has fulfilled the requirements for New and Renewed Arrangements under Section III.D.2 of the CIA; and
          4. he or she has reviewed the Report and has made reasonable inquiry regarding its content and believes that the information in the Report is accurate and truthful.
     E. . Zimmer shall clearly identify any portions of their submissions that they believe are trade secrets, or information that is commercial or financial and privileged or confidential, and therefore potentially exempt from disclosure under the Freedom of Information Act (FOIA), 5 U.S.C.  552. Zimmer shall refrain from identifying any information as exempt from disclosure if that information does not meet the criteria for exemption from disclosure under FOIA.
Designation of Information
VI.
Notifications and Submission of Reports
     Unless otherwise stated in writing after the Effective Date, all notifications and reports required under this CIA shall be submitted to the following entities:
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
          :
OIG
Administrative and Civil Remedies Branch Office of Counsel to the Inspector General Office of Inspector General U.S. Department of Health and Human Services Cohen Building, Room 5527 330 Independence Avenue, S.W. Washington, DC 20201 Telephone: 202.619.2078 Facsimile: 202.205.0604
          :
Zimmer
Laura C. O'Donnell Chief Compliance Officer Zimmer, Inc. 345 East Main Street Warsaw, Indiana 46580 Telephone: 574.371.8637 Facsimile: 574.372.4440
Unless otherwise specified, all notifications and reports required by this CIA may be made by certified mail, overnight mail, hand delivery, or other means, provided that there is proof that such notification was received. For purposes of this requirement, internal facsimile confirmation sheets do not constitute proof of receipt.
VII.
OIG Inspection, Audit, and Review Rights
     In addition to any other rights OIG may have by statute, regulation, or contract, OIG or its duly authorized representative(s) may examine or request copies of Zimmer's books, records, and other documents and supporting materials and/or conduct on-site reviews of any of Zimmer's locations for the purpose of verifying and evaluating: (a) Zimmer's compliance with the terms of this CIA; and (b) Zimmer's compliance with the requirements of the Federal health care programs in which they participate. The documentation described above shall be made available by Zimmer to OIG or its duly authorized representative(s) at all reasonable times for inspection, audit, or reproduction. Furthermore, for purposes of this provision, OIG or its duly authorized representative(s) may interview any of Zimmer's employees, contractors, or agents who consent to
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
be interviewed at the individual's place of business during normal business hours or at such other place and time as may be mutually agreed upon between the individual and OIG. Zimmer shall assist OIG or its duly authorized representative(s) in contacting and arranging interviews with such individuals upon OIG's request. Zimmer's employees may elect to be interviewed with or without a representative of Zimmer present.
VIII.
Document and Record Retention
     Zimmer shall maintain for inspection all documents and records relating to reimbursement from the Federal health care programs, or to compliance with this CIA, for six years (or longer if otherwise required by law).
IX.
Disclosures
     Consistent with HHS's FOIA procedures, set forth in 45 C.F.R. Part 5, OIG shall make a reasonable effort to notify Zimmer prior to any release by OIG of information submitted by Zimmer pursuant to its obligations under this CIA and identified upon submission by Zimmer as trade secrets, or information that is commercial or financial and privileged or confidential, under the FOIA rules. With respect to such releases, Zimmer shall have the rights set forth at 45 C.F.R.  5.65(d).
  
X.
Breach and Default Provisions
     Zimmer is expected to fully and timely comply with all of its CIA obligations.
     A. . As a contractual remedy, Zimmer and OIG hereby agree that failure to comply with certain obligations as set forth in this CIA may lead to the imposition of the following monetary penalties (hereinafter referred to as "Stipulated Penalties") in accordance with the following provisions.
Stipulated Penalties for Failure to Comply with Certain Obligations
          1. A Stipulated Penalty of $2,500 (which shall begin to accrue on the day after the date the obligation became due) for each day Zimmer fails to establish and implement any of the following obligations as described in Section III:
a. a Compliance Officer
b. a Compliance Committee;
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
c. a written Code of Conduct;
d. written Policies and Procedures;
e. the training of Covered Persons;
f. a Disclosure Program;
g. Ineligible Persons screening and removal requirements; and
h. Notification of Government investigations or legal proceedings.
          2. A Stipulated Penalty of $2,500 (which shall begin to accrue on the day after the date the obligation became due) for each day Zimmer fails to establish and implement the Arrangements Procedures and/or Arrangements Requirements described in Sections III.D.1 and III.D.2
          3. A Stipulated Penalty of $2,500 (which shall begin to accrue on the day after the date the obligation became due) for each day Zimmer fails to engage an IRO, as required in Section III.E and Appendix B.
          4. A Stipulated Penalty of $2,500 (which shall begin to accrue on the day after the date the obligation became due) for each day Zimmer fail to submit the Implementation Report, documentation required under Section V.B, or the Annual Reports to OIG in accordance with the requirements of Section V by the deadlines for submission.
          5. A Stipulated Penalty of $2,500 (which shall begin to accrue on the day after the date the obligation became due) for each day Zimmer fails to submit the annual Arrangements Review Report in accordance with the requirements of Section III.E.
          6. A Stipulated Penalty of $1,500 for each day Zimmer fails to grant access to the information or documentation as required in Section VII. (This Stipulated Penalty shall begin to accrue on the date Zimmer fails to grant access.)
          7. A Stipulated Penalty of $5,000 for each false certification submitted by or on behalf of Zimmer as part of its Implementation Report, Annual Reports, additional documentation to a report (as requested by the OIG), or otherwise required by this CIA.
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
          8. A Stipulated Penalty of $1,000 for each day Zimmer fails to comply fully and adequately with any obligation of this CIA. OIG shall provide notice to Zimmer, stating the specific grounds for its determination that Zimmer has failed to comply fully and adequately with the CIA obligation(s) at issue and steps Zimmer shall take to comply with the CIA. (This Stipulated Penalty shall begin to accrue 10 days after Zimmer receives this notice from OIG of the failure to comply.) A Stipulated Penalty as described in this Subsection shall not be demanded for any violation for which OIG has sought a Stipulated Penalty under Subsections 1-7 of this Section.
     B. . Zimmer may, in advance of the due date, submit a timely written request for an extension of time to perform any act or file any notification or report required by this CIA. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Section, if OIG grants the timely written request with respect to an act, notification, or report, Stipulated Penalties for failure to perform the act or file the notification or report shall not begin to accrue until one day after Zimmer fails to meet the revised deadline set by OIG. Notwithstanding any other provision in this Section, if OIG denies such a timely written request, Stipulated Penalties for failure to perform the act or file the notification or report shall not begin to accrue until three business days after Zimmer receives OIG's written denial of such request or the original due date, whichever is later. A "timely written request" is defined as a request in writing received by OIG at least five business days prior to the date by which any act is due to be performed or any notification or report is due to be filed.
Timely Written Requests for Extensions
     C. .
Payment of Stipulated Penalties
          1. . Upon a finding that Zimmer has failed to comply with any of the obligations described in Section X.A and after determining that Stipulated Penalties are appropriate, OIG shall notify Zimmer of: (a) Zimmer's failure to comply; and (b) OIG's exercise of its contractual right to demand payment of the Stipulated Penalties (this notification is referred to as the "Demand Letter"). Such Demand Letter shall specifically state the conduct that the OIG contends constitutes the basis for imposing the Stipulated Penalty.
Demand Letter
          2. Within 10 days after the receipt of the Demand Letter, Zimmer shall either: (a) cure the breach to OIG's satisfaction and pay the applicable Stipulated Penalties; or (b) request a hearing before an HHS administrative law judge (ALJ) to dispute OIG's determination of noncompliance, pursuant to the agreed
Response to Demand Letter.
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
upon provisions set forth below in Section X.E. In the event Zimmer elects to request an ALJ hearing, the Stipulated Penalties shall continue to accrue until Zimmer cures, to OIG's satisfaction, the alleged breach in dispute. Failure to respond to the Demand Letter in one of these two manners within the allowed time period shall be considered a material breach of this CIA and shall be grounds for exclusion under Section X.D.
          3. . Payment of the Stipulated Penalties shall be made by certified or cashier's check, payable to: "Secretary of the Department of Health and Human Services," and submitted to OIG at the address set forth in Section VI.
Form of Payment
          4. . Except as set forth in Section X.D.1.c, these provisions for payment of Stipulated Penalties shall not affect or otherwise set a standard for OIG's decision that Zimmer has materially breached this CIA, which decision shall be made at OIG's discretion and shall be governed by the provisions in Section X.D, below.
Independence from Material Breach Determination
    D. .
Exclusion for Material Breach of this CIA
          1. . A material breach of this CIA means:
Definition of Material Breach
a. a failure by Zimmer to report a Reportable Event, or take corrective action, as required in Section III.I;
b. a repeated or flagrant violation of the obligations under this CIA, including, but not limited to, the obligations addressed in Section X.A;
c. a failure to respond to a Demand Letter concerning the payment of Stipulated Penalties in accordance with Section X.C; or
d. a failure to engage and use an IRO in accordance with Section III.E.
          2. . The parties agree that a material breach of this CIA by Zimmer constitutes an independent basis for Zimmer's exclusion from participation in the Federal health care programs. Upon a determination by OIG that Zimmer has materially breached this CIA and that exclusion is the appropriate remedy, OIG shall notify Zimmer of: (a) Zimmer's material breach; and
Notice of Material Breach and Intent to Exclude
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
(b) OIG's intent to exercise its contractual right to impose exclusion (this notification is hereinafter referred to as the "Notice of Material Breach and Intent to Exclude").
          3. . Zimmer shall have 30 days from the date of receipt of the Notice of Material Breach and Intent to Exclude to demonstrate to OIG's satisfaction that:
Opportunity to Cure
a. Zimmer is in compliance with the obligations of the CIA cited by OIG as being the basis for the material breach;
b. the alleged material breach has been cured; or
c. the alleged material breach cannot be cured within the 30-day period, but that: (i) Zimmer has begun to take action to cure the material breach; (ii) Zimmer is pursuing such action with due diligence; and (iii) Zimmer has provided to OIG a reasonable timetable for curing the material breach.
          4. . If, at the conclusion of the 30-day period, Zimmer fails to satisfy the requirements of Section X.D.3, OIG may exclude Zimmer from participation in the Federal health care programs. OIG shall notify Zimmer in writing of its determination to exclude Zimmer (this letter shall be referred to hereinafter as the "Exclusion Letter"). Subject to the Dispute Resolution provisions in Section X.E, below, the exclusion shall go into effect 30 days after the date of Zimmer's receipt of the Exclusion Letter. The exclusion shall have national effect and shall also apply to all other Federal procurement and nonprocurement programs. Reinstatement to program participation is not automatic. After the end of the period of exclusion, Zimmer may apply for reinstatement by submitting a written request for reinstatement in accordance with the provisions at 42 C.F.R.  1001.3001-.3004.
Exclusion Letter
     E. 
Dispute Resolution
          1. . Upon OIG's delivery to Zimmer of its Demand Letter or of its Exclusion Letter, and as an agreed-upon contractual remedy for the resolution of disputes arising under this CIA, Zimmer shall be afforded certain review rights comparable to the ones that are provided in 42 U.S.C.  1320a-7(f) and 42 C.F.R. Part 1005 as if they applied to the Stipulated Penalties or exclusion sought pursuant to this CIA. Specifically, OIG's determination to demand payment of Stipulated Penalties or to
Review Rights
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
seek exclusion shall be subject to review by an HHS ALJ and, in the event of an appeal, the HHS Departmental Appeals Board (DAB), in a manner consistent with the provisions in 42 C.F.R.  1005.2-1005.21. Notwithstanding the language in 42 C.F.R.  1005.2(c), the request for a hearing involving Stipulated Penalties shall be made within 10 days after receipt of the Demand Letter and the request for a hearing involving exclusion shall be made within 25 days after receipt of the Exclusion Letter.
          2. . Notwithstanding any provision of Title 42 of the United States Code or Title 42 of the Code of Federal Regulations, the only issues in a proceeding for Stipulated Penalties under this CIA shall be: (a) whether Zimmer was in full and timely compliance with the obligations of this CIA for which OIG demands payment; and (b) the period of noncompliance. Zimmer shall have the burden of proving its full and timely compliance and the steps taken to cure the noncompliance, if any. OIG shall not have the right to appeal to the DAB an adverse ALJ decision related to Stipulated Penalties. If the ALJ agrees with OIG with regard to a finding of a breach of this CIA and orders Zimmer to pay Stipulated Penalties, such Stipulated Penalties shall become due and payable 20 days after the ALJ issues such a decision unless Zimmer requests review of the ALJ decision by the DAB. If the ALJ decision is properly appealed to the DAB and the DAB upholds the determination of OIG, the Stipulated Penalties shall become due and payable 20 days after the DAB issues its decision.
Stipulated Penalties Review
          3. . Notwithstanding any provision of Title 42 of the United States Code or Title 42 of the Code of Federal Regulations, the only issues in a proceeding for exclusion based on a material breach of this CIA shall be:
Exclusion Review
a. whether Zimmer was in material breach of this CIA;
b. whether such breach was continuing on the date of the Exclusion Letter; and
c. whether the alleged material breach could not have been cured within the 30-day period, but that: (i) Zimmer has begun to take action to cure the material breach within that period; (ii) Zimmer has pursued and is pursuing such action with due diligence; and (iii) Zimmer provided to OIG within that period a reasonable timetable for curing the material breach and Zimmer has followed the timetable.
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
          For purposes of the exclusion herein, exclusion shall take effect only after an ALJ decision favorable to OIG, or, if the ALJ rules for Zimmer, only after a DAB decision in favor of OIG. Zimmer's election of its contractual right to appeal to the DAB shall not abrogate OIG's authority to exclude Zimmer upon the issuance of an ALJ's decision in favor of OIG. If the ALJ sustains the determination of OIG and determines that exclusion is authorized, such exclusion shall take effect 20 days after the ALJ issues such a decision, notwithstanding that Zimmer may request review of the ALJ decision by the DAB. If the DAB finds in favor of OIG after an ALJ decision adverse to OIG, the exclusion shall take effect 20 days after the DAB decision. Zimmer shall waive its right to any notice of such an exclusion if a decision upholding the exclusion is rendered by the ALJ or DAB. If the DAB finds in favor of Zimmer, Zimmer shall be reinstated effective on the date of the original exclusion.
          4. The review by an ALJ or DAB provided for above shall not be considered to be an appeal right arising under any statutes or regulations. Consequently, the parties to this CIA agree that the DAB's decision (or the ALJ's decision if not appealed) shall be considered final for all purposes under this CIA.
Finality of Decision.
XI.
Effective and Binding Agreement
     Zimmer and OIG agree as follows:
     A. This CIA shall be binding on the successors, assigns, and transferees of Zimmer;
     B. This CIA shall become final and binding on the date the final signature is obtained on the CIA;
     C. This CIA constitutes the complete agreement between the parties and may not be amended except by written consent of the parties to this CIA;
     D. OIG may agree to a suspension of Zimmer's obligations under the CIA in the event of Zimmer's cessation of the delivery, sale, marketing, or furnishing of items or services reimbursed by any Federal health care programs. If such cessation occurs and Zimmer is relieved of its CIA obligations by OIG, Zimmer shall notify OIG at least 30 days in advance of the date on which Zimmer intends to begin delivering, selling, marketing, or furnishing items or services reimbursed by any Federal health care programs. Upon receipt of such notification, OIG shall evaluate whether the CIA should
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
be reactivated or modified.
     E. The undersigned Zimmer signatories represent and warrant that they are authorized to execute this CIA. The undersigned OIG signatory represents that he is signing this CIA in his official capacity and that he is authorized to execute this CIA.
     F. This CIA may be executed in counterparts, each of which constitutes an original and all of which constitute one and the same CIA. Facsimiles of signatures shall constitute acceptable, binding signatures for purposes of this CIA.
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
Zimmer shall create and maintain an Arrangements Database to track all new and existing Arrangements, including Contractual Arrangements and Non-Contractual Arrangements, in order to ensure that each Arrangement does not violate the Anti-Kickback Statute.
A. The Arrangements Database shall contain certain information to assist Zimmer in evaluating whether each Contractual Arrangement violates the Anti-Kickback Statute, including but not limited to the following:
1. Each party involved in the Arrangement;
2. The type of Arrangement (, physician employment contract, medical directorship, lease agreement);
e.g.
3. The term of the Arrangement, including the effective and expiration dates and any automatic renewal provisions;
4. The amount of compensation to be paid pursuant to the Arrangement and the means by which compensation is paid;
5. The methodology for determining the compensation under the Arrangements, including the methodology used to determine the fair market value of such compensation;
6. Whether the amount of compensation to be paid pursuant to the Arrangement is determined based on the volume or value of referrals between the parties;
7. Whether each party has fulfilled the requirements of Section III.D.2; and
8. Whether the Arrangement satisfies the requirements of an Anti-Kickback Statute safe harbor.
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
B. The Arrangements Database shall contain certain information to assist Zimmer in evaluating whether each Non-Contractual Arrangement violates the Anti-Kickback Statute, including but not limited to the following:
1. The name of the entity or individual receiving the Non-Contractual remuneration;
2. The type of Non-Contractual remuneration (listing in the aggregate multiple distributions of the same type of Non-Contractual remuneration to each entity or individual);
3. The aggregate value of each type of Non-Contractual remuneration given to each entity or individual during the Reporting Period;
4. Whether the Non-Contractual remuneration given pursuant to the Non-Contractual Arrangement is determined based on the volume or value of referrals between the parties; and
5. Whether the Non-Contractual Arrangement satisfies the requirements of an Anti-Kickback Statute safe harbor.
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
This Appendix contains the requirements relating to the Independent Review Organization (IRO) required by Section III.E of the CIA.
     Zimmer shall engage an IRO that possesses the qualifications set forth in Paragraph B, below, to perform the responsibilities in Paragraph C, below. The IRO shall conduct the review in a professionally independent and objective fashion, as set forth in Paragraph D. Within 30 days after OIG receives written notice of the identity of the selected IRO, OIG will notify Zimmer if the IRO is unacceptable. Absent notification from OIG that the IRO is unacceptable, Zimmer may continue to engage the IRO.
     If Zimmer engages a new IRO during the term of the CIA, this IRO shall also meet the requirements of this Appendix. If a new IRO is engaged, Zimmer shall submit the information identified in Section V.A.11 to OIG within 30 days of engagement of the IRO. Within 30 days after OIG receives written notice of the identity of the selected IRO, OIG will notify Zimmer if the IRO is unacceptable. Absent notification from OIG that the IRO is unacceptable, Zimmer may continue to engage the IRO.
The IRO shall:
     1. assign individuals qualified to conduct the Arrangements Review; and
     2. have sufficient staff and resources to conduct the reviews required by the CIA on a timely basis.
     C. .
IRO Responsibilities
      The IRO shall:
     1. perform each Arrangements Review in accordance with the specific requirements of the CIA;
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.
 
     2. respond to all OIG inquires in a prompt, objective, and factual manner; and
     3. prepare timely, clear, well-written reports that include all the information required by Section III.E.3 of the CIA.
The IRO must perform the Arrangements Review in a professionally independent and objective fashion, as appropriate to the nature of the engagement, taking into account any other business relationships or engagements that may exist between the IRO and Zimmer.
     1. . If Zimmer terminates its IRO during the course of the engagement, Zimmer must submit a notice explaining its reasons to OIG no later than 30 days after termination. Zimmer must engage a new IRO in accordance with Paragraph A of this Appendix.
Provider
     2. In the event OIG has reason to believe that the IRO does not possess the qualifications described in Paragraph B, is not independent and/or objective as set forth in Paragraph D, or has failed to carry out its responsibilities as described in Paragraph C, OIG may, at its sole discretion, require Zimmer to engage a new IRO in accordance with Paragraph A of this Appendix.
. OIG Removal of IRO
     Prior to requiring Zimmer to engage a new IRO, OIG shall notify Zimmer of its intent to do so and provide a written explanation of why OIG believes such a step is necessary. To resolve any concerns raised by OIG, Zimmer may request a meeting with OIG to discuss any aspect of the IRO's qualifications, independence or performance of its responsibilities and to present additional information regarding these matters. Zimmer shall provide any additional information as may be requested by OIG under this Paragraph in an expedited manner. OIG will attempt in good faith to resolve any differences regarding the IRO with Zimmer prior to requiring Zimmer to terminate the IRO. However, the final determination as to whether or not to require Zimmer to engage a new IRO shall be made at the sole discretion of OIG.
Corporate Integrity Agreement between OIG-HHS and Zimmer, Inc.

 
Exhibit 10.3
          1. Zimmer, Inc. (the "Company"), by its undersigned attorneys, pursuant to authority granted by the Board of Directors of its parent company, Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (referred to herein as the "Board" or "Board of Directors"), and the United States Attorney's Office for the District of New Jersey (the "Office"), enter into this Deferred Prosecution Agreement (the "DPA"). Except as specifically provided below, the DPA shall be in effect for a period of eighteen (18) months from the date it is fully executed (the "Effective Date").
          2. The Office has informed the Company that it will file, on or shortly after the Effective Date of this DPA, a criminal complaint in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey charging the Company with conspiracy to commit violations of the Federal Anti-Kickback Statute, contrary to Title 42, United States Code, Sections 1320a - 7b, in violation of Title 18, United States Code, Section 371, during the years 2002 through 2006 (the "Criminal Complaint"). This Office acknowledges that neither this DPA nor the Criminal Complaint alleges the Company's conduct adversely affected patient health or patient care.
          3. The Company and the Office agree that, upon filing of the Criminal Complaint in accordance with the preceding paragraph, this DPA shall be publicly filed in the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, and the Company agrees to post the DPA prominently on the Company website for the duration of the DPA.
          4. In light of the Company's remedial actions to date and its willingness to (a) undertake additional remediation as necessary; (b) acknowledge responsibility for its behavior; (c) continue its cooperation with the Office and other government agencies; and (d) demonstrate its good faith and commitment to full compliance with federal health care laws, the Office shall recommend to the Court that prosecution of the Company on the Criminal Complaint be deferred for a period of eighteen (18) months from the filing date of such Criminal Complaint. If the Court declines to defer prosecution for any reason, this DPA shall be null and void, and the parties will revert to their pre-DPA positions.
          5. Zimmer has provided substantial assistance to the Office's investigation of the Company, including, but not limited to fully complying with requests for information by the Office; voluntarily providing significant and comprehensive information regarding the Company's practices and procedures in a timely and organized manner; and making numerous oral and written presentations helpful to the Office's investigation of the Company. Zimmer also took the initiative to institute numerous and comprehensive compliance enhancements, including but not limited to the following: (a) establishing an enhanced Corporate Compliance Program; (b) appointing a Chief Compliance Officer who is a member of the Executive Committee of the Company, who has direct reporting to the President and CEO, and the Board of Directors, and who is not subordinate to the chief legal officer, the chief financial officer, or any sales or marketing officers; (c) assigning a significant, dedicated and qualified compliance staff to the Chief Compliance Officer; (d) creating executive-level oversight to evaluate and approve the
 
Company's business and development Needs Assessments, and to evaluate and approve requests for Consulting Agreements and other service relationships with Consultants; (e) conducting Needs Assessments to determine Zimmer's bona fide, commercially reasonable services needs, including detailed written protocols implementing the Needs Assessment; (f) implementing and maintaining an electronic tracking system for Consulting Services that ties to the Need Assessments; and (g) establishing internal compliance audit processes and procedures. A number of compliance enhancements were developed prior to the Company being notified of the Office's investigation at significant cost and expense to the Company, and the existence and effectiveness of these enhancements played a significant role in the terms of this resolution.
General Commitment to Compliance and Remedial Actions
          6. The Company commits itself to exemplary corporate citizenship, best practices of effective corporate governance, the highest principles of honesty and professionalism, the integrity of the operation of federal health care programs including Medicare and Medicaid, the sanctity of the doctor-patient relationship, and a culture of openness, accountability, and compliance throughout the Company. The Company also commits not to attempt to influence medical practitioners and institutions to use the Company's products through the use of unlawful inducements. To advance and underscore this commitment, the Company agrees to take, or has acknowledged that it has taken, the remedial and compliance measures set forth herein.
          7. In matters relating to federal health care laws, the Company will cooperate fully with all federal law enforcement and regulatory agencies, including but not limited to: the Criminal and Civil Divisions of the Office; the United States Department of Justice, Criminal and Civil Divisions; the United States Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General ("HHS-OIG); the Federal Bureau of Investigation ("FBI"); and the United States Postal Inspection Service ("USPIS"); provided, however, that such cooperation shall not require the Company's waiver of attorney-client and work product protections or any other applicable legal privileges. Nothing in this DPA shall be construed as a waiver of any applicable attorney-client or work product privileges (hereafter "privilege").
          8. The Company shall communicate to its employees and distributors that Company personnel and agents are required to report to the Company any suspected violations of any federal laws, regulations, federal health care program requirements, or internal policies and procedures.
          9. The Company shall implement or continue its operation of an effective corporate compliance program and function to ensure that internal controls are in place to prevent recurrence of the activities that resulted in this DPA. The Company shall also develop and implement policies, procedures, and practices designed to ensure compliance with federal health care program requirements, including the Anti-Kickback Statute, with respect to all its dealings with Consultants, as defined herein, and others who cause the purchase of Company orthopedic products in the United States.
 
          10. The Company shall adhere to the AdvaMed Code of Ethics on Interactions with Health Care Professionals. The AdvaMed Code can be found at www.advamed.org. The principles set forth in the AdvaMed Code are expressly incorporated as compliance requirements under this DPA.
          11. The Company agrees that its President and CEO, General Counsel, Compliance Officer, and appropriate Company executives will meet quarterly with the Office and the Monitor, in conjunction with the Monitor's quarterly reports described in paragraph 19 herein.
Definitions
          12. "Consultant" is defined as any United States-based orthopedic surgeon, PhDhealth care professional, non-physician practitioner, medical fellow, resident or student, or any employee or agent of any educational or health care organization the Company retains for any personal or professional services or compensates or remunerates in any way, directly or indirectly, for or in anticipation of personal or professional services relating to hip and knee reconstruction and replacement. The term Consultant shall not include accountants, auditors, attorneys, fair market value specialists, CME providers, reimbursement specialists, any non-physician engineering or marketing consultants, or any other types of non-physician professionals or entities excluded from this definition by the Monitor upon recommendation by the Company.
,
          13. "Consulting Agreement" includes all contracts with Consultants for services to be performed on behalf of the Company. This includes, but is not limited to, agreements for compensation, payments, remuneration, honoraria, fellowships, professional meetings, speaking engagements, teaching, publications, clinical studies, fee-for-service consulting, product development and license agreements, research, and professional services agreements. The term "Consulting Agreement" also includes agreements to provide grants, donations, sponsorships and other forms of payment to medical educational organizations, medical societies and training institutions.
          14. "Consulting Services" or "Services" include any and all professional services provided by a Consultant to or on behalf of the Company.
          15. "Payment" shall include any and all compensation or remuneration paid to or for the benefit of Consultants, including but not limited to payments and reimbursements for personal or professional services, any type of securities, registered or unregistered, meals, entertainment, travel, gifts, grants, honoraria, charitable contributions, donations, sponsorships, research grants, clinical studies, professional meetings, product training, medical education, research funding, product development services, in-kind services (e.g., use of aircraft), advertising, promotion, and marketing expenses or support, and royalties or other payments for transfer of documented intellectual property. Unless otherwise approved by the Monitor, the Company shall only compensate or remunerate Consultants through direct Payments made pursuant to a Consulting Agreement. The Company shall not knowingly make any Payments to
 
Consultants indirectly, such as through distributors.
Retention and Obligations of a Monitor
          16. The Company agrees that until the expiration of this DPA, it will retain an outside, independent individual (the "Monitor") selected by the Office, after consultation with the Company, to evaluate and monitor the Company's compliance with the DPA. Among the conditions of the Monitor's retention are that the Monitor is independent of the Company, the Monitor works exclusively for and at the direction of the Office, and no attorney-client relationship shall be formed between the Monitor and the Company.
          17. The Monitor shall have access to all non-privileged Company documents and information the Monitor determines are reasonably necessary to assist in the execution of his or her duties. The Monitor shall have the authority to meet with any officer, employee, or agent of the Company. The Company shall use its best efforts to have its independent distributors for hip and knee reconstruction and replacement products and their employees and agents fully cooperate and meet with the Monitor as requested. For all distributor agreements for hip and knee reconstruction and replacement products and renewals executed after the Effective Date, the Company shall require provisions allowing the Monitor access to non-privileged relevant documents and information relating to Consulting Agreements and Services, and compliance with all applicable provisions of the DPA.
          18. The Monitor shall conduct a review and evaluation of all Company policies, practices, and procedures relating to compliance with the DPA and the following subjects, and report and make written recommendations as necessary ("Recommendations") to the Company and the Office concerning same:
 
19. The Monitor shall,
inter alia:
 
 
          In the event the Monitor opposes any Consulting Agreement, request for Consulting Services, or request for Payment, the Monitor will promptly meet with the Company to discuss his or her concerns. The Consulting Agreement shall not be executed, the Consulting Services shall not be rendered, or the Payment shall not be made unless and until the Monitor's objections are remedied. All actions of the Monitor in this regard shall be subject to review by the Office and shall not require the Company to breach any existing contractual requirements so long as they comply with all applicable laws. The Office will act promptly to resolve any issues on a good faith and reasonable basis.
          20. The Company shall promptly notify the Monitor and the Office in writing of any credible evidence of criminal corporate conduct as well as of any known criminal investigations of any type of the corporation or any of its officers or directors that becomes known to the Company after the Effective Date. In addition, the Company shall promptly notify the Monitor and the Office in writing of any credible evidence of criminal conduct or serious wrongdoing relating to federal health care laws by the Company, its officers, employees and agents. The Company shall provide the Monitor and the Office with all relevant non-privileged documents and information concerning such allegations, including but not limited to internal audit reports, letters threatening litigation, "whistleblower" complaints, civil complaints, and documents produced in civil litigation. In addition, the Company shall report to the Monitor and the Office concerning its planned investigative measures and any resulting remedial measures, internal and external. The Monitor in his or her discretion may conduct an investigation into any such matters; and nothing in this paragraph shall be construed as limiting the ability of the Monitor to investigate and report to the Company and the Office concerning such matters.
Remedial Measures
          
Responsibilities of Compliance
Office
          21. The Compliance Office ("Compliance Office") and Chief Compliance Officer ("Compliance Officer") shall be responsible for monitoring the day-to-day compliance activities of the Company. The Compliance Officer shall be a member of the Operating Committee of the Company who reports directly to the President and CEO and shall not be a subordinate to the chief legal officer, the chief financial officer, or any sales or marketing officers. The Compliance Officer shall make periodic (at least quarterly) reports regarding compliance matters to the Company Board of Directors and is authorized to report on such matters directly to the Company Board of Directors at any time.
          22. The Compliance Officer shall have the authority to meet with, and require reports and certifications on any subject from, any officer or employee of the Company.
 
          23. The Compliance Office shall be responsible for oversight, evaluation, and approval of the Company's Needs Assessments (described more fully at paragraphs 27-29), and shall evaluate and approve requests for Consulting Agreements, Services, and Payments, subject to review and approval by the Monitor as set forth in paragraph 19.
          24. The Compliance Office shall be responsible for approving the Consulting Services budget. All requests for Consulting Services and Payments must be made to and approved by the Compliance Office. Any Payments to or for the benefit of a Consultant must be approved by the Compliance Office, subject to review of the Monitor as set forth in paragraph 19.
          25. Consulting Agreements shall be managed by Company employees who have no sales responsibilities and who report to the Compliance Office on Consulting issues. These employees shall interface directly with the Consultants on the terms of their Consulting Agreements and on issues relating to Payments.
          26. From the Effective Date until the Needs Assessment is approved, all requests for Consulting Services and Payments shall be pre-approved by the Compliance Office. In considering these requests, the Compliance Office and any other Company personnel with knowledge of the request shall evaluate the bona fides of the activity for which the Services or Payments are requested, subject to review of the Monitor. No Consulting Services may be approved unless the Compliance Office verifies that the Company has a bona fide commercial need for such services. No Payments may be made without appropriate documentation and verification of services rendered on a standard form to be developed by the Compliance Office and approved by the Monitor.
Needs Assessment
          27. The Company shall complete a Needs Assessment no later than December 31, 2007, and annually thereafter. The Needs Assessment may be modified if bona fide, commercially reasonable, unexpected business needs arise ("Modification"). The Needs Assessment must reflect the Company's expected, commercially reasonable needs for all Consulting Services to fulfill its medical, clinical, training, educational, and research and development needs. The Needs Assessment shall also contain a budget for the total amount of honoraria, fellowships, gifts, donations, charitable contributions, and any other payments contemplated to be made to Consultants for which no Consulting Services are provided. The Needs Assessment and any Modifications as defined herein shall be prepared in consultation with those areas of the Company that have bona fide needs for the services to be performed. The Needs Assessment and any Modifications must be approved by the Compliance Officer and the Monitor before they are finalized. As of January 1, 2008, the Needs Assessment and any Modifications shall be used as a basis for Consultant selection and all Consulting Agreements, Services and Payments. The Compliance Officer shall attest to the best of his or her knowledge, after conducting reasonable due diligence, that the Needs Assessment and any Modifications reflect the bona fide, commercially reasonable consulting needs of the Company.
 
          28. The Needs Assessment shall establish or incorporate by reference detailed protocols or procedures that must be followed before a Consulting Agreement will be authorized. The Needs Assessment must identify and quantify the services needed within each discrete service category (e.g., operating room training, speaking engagements, clinical studies, product development groups), and provide written support for the needs. The Needs Assessment must set forth the nature of the services needed, the range of hours or other quantitative measure needed to complete the services, the number of Consultants needed, and the maximum fair market value compensation to be paid for each consulting service. The Needs Assessment shall also identify the qualifications and expertise required to perform the services. The Needs Assessment shall ensure that Services are distributed appropriately to all regions of the country.
          29. The Needs Assessment and any approved Modifications shall be used to define and limit all Consulting Services performed for the Company for the ensuing year. All Consulting Agreements entered into by the Company shall be for services specified and enumerated by the Needs Assessment and any approved Modifications. No Consulting Agreement shall be entered into with any Consultant for services outside those specified in the Needs Assessment and any approved Modifications, or for services exceeding the number of services specified in the Needs Assessment and any approved Modifications. For example, if the Needs Assessment specifies that the Company will require Consultants to conduct 50 speaking engagements on a particular topic, once the total number of contracted-for speaking engagements reaches 50, the Company may not engage any additional Consultants for such speaking engagements unless it obtains an approved Modification.
          30. The Company shall maintain a record of all Consulting Services provided under the Needs Assessment and any Modification. Monthly reports will be issued by the Compliance Office to the Monitor and to senior executives in the areas in which services are provided summarizing the Consulting Services provided or submitted for Payment, by Consultant, by region, and by total, with a list of services left to be provided during the calendar year in fulfillment of the Needs Assessment.
          
Consulting Agreements
          31. All Consulting Agreements shall be in writing and executed by the Compliance Officer, the President, the General Counsel, the Director of Research & Development for product development and research agreements, and the Director of Clinical for clinical services agreements (including clinical trials, clinical studies, follow-up visits). On an annual basis, the Compliance Officer, the Director of Research & Development for product development and research agreements, and the Director of Clinical for clinical services agreements shall attest and certify in writing that, based on their reasonable inquiry and knowledge, all Consulting Agreements and all Consulting Services performed thereunder were bona fide, commercially reasonable, and compliant with all federal health care programs. The Company shall not enter into Consulting Agreements with Consultants through any third parties, including distributors.
 
          32. All Consulting Agreements for Consulting Services to be rendered in 2008 and thereafter shall be for a term of the calendar year, with the exception of product development agreements that could result in the payment of royalties, clinical agreements, and external research agreements, which may be for a length appropriate to the type of Service being rendered, upon approval of the Monitor. All Consulting Agreements shall identify the specific Services to be provided as defined by the Needs Assessment and any Modification thereto, and specify the rate to be paid for each Service. The Company may not enter into Consulting Agreements for Services exceeding the total number of Services set forth in the Needs Assessment and any Modification thereto. Consultants shall be paid only for the actual time expended in providing Consulting Services, in hourly billing increments or other reasonable quantitative measure as identified in the Needs Assessment, without regard to the total amount of consulting services permissible under their Consulting Agreements.
          
New and Substitute Consultants
          33. The Compliance Office, in consultation with the Monitor and appropriate Company employees, shall conduct an evaluation of each new Consultant to be considered for a Consulting Agreement. This evaluation shall ensure the proposed Consultant's qualifications and experience are commensurate with those required by the Needs Assessment and any Modification thereto, and that any new relationship meets an unfilled bona fide commercial need of the Company.
          34. In the event a Consultant is unable to provide service to the Company under a Consulting Agreement in any given year, the Company may substitute another Consultant or retain a new Consultant to perform the specified yet unfulfilled Consulting Services of the Consulting Agreement. The substitute Consultant must be authorized by the Compliance Officer and approved by the Monitor after conducting a substantive review of the Consultant's qualifications and expertise.
          
Payments to Consultants
          35. A Company employee or representative must be present for every Consulting Service, except that the Monitor, upon application by the Compliance Office, may exempt certain Services from this requirement (such as collection of clinical study data, travel or preparation time). Upon completion of the Consulting Service, both the Company employee (or representative) in attendance and the Consultant must independently verify in writing that the Service took place, identify the participants present and length of service, and summarize the Service provided. These verifications must be certified, made under penalty of perjury, and submitted to the Compliance Office within ninety (90) calendar days of the date of the Service and as a condition precedent to any Payments being issued under a Consulting Agreement.
          36For all Consulting Agreements entered into after the Effective Date of this DPA, the Company agrees to make Payments to Consultants at a fair market value hourly rate ("Hourly
.
 
Rate") of no more than $500 per hour for time actually expended by a Consultant performing Consulting Services. In the event the Company wishes to make Payments to a Consultant at a higher Hourly Rate or at a different rate because of the Consultant's special expertise or the nature of the service (such as a per patient rate for clinical studies), the Company must obtain or have obtained a fair market value analysis conducted by an independent organization with expertise in valuation as approved or accepted by the Monitor. Any changes to the Hourly Rate or Payments other than at the Hourly Rate must be approved by the Monitor.
          37. With respect to product development agreements and renewals entered into after the Effective Date and for all Services to be rendered after January 1, 2008, the Company shall pay a Consultant on a product development team for the actual time spent providing Services to the Company, at no more than the Hourly Rate. In addition to the Hourly Rate payments, the Company may pay each member of a product development team royalties on any product the team may develop. The number of Consultants serving on a product development team must not exceed the number reasonably necessary to achieve the identified design and development needs of the project. The aggregate royalties paid per project to all Consultants shall not exceed fair market value expressed as a certain percentage of all domestic and international product sales of the product or products that are the subject of the product development agreement as proposed by the Company and approved by the Monitor. These royalty payments and Hourly Rate payments shall be the only compensation a Consultant may receive for participation on a product design team; that is, the Company shall not make any flat rate payments or minimum guaranteed payments in lieu of or in addition to Hourly Rate payments and royalty payments. The Company may offset royalty payments to a Consultant with Hourly Rate payments for Services the Consultant appropriately performed. The Company may pay royalties to a Consultant only for Intellectual Property received by the Company for products that have actually been sold. (Products may be considered to have been sold when the products are transferred to an unrelated third-party or to a Company affiliate located outside the United States.) If the Intellectual Property has been patented in the United States, royalty payments may not extend beyond the life of the U.S. patent. If the Intellectual Property has not been patented, royalties may not extend beyond a reasonable period (in light of factors such as the life cycle and commercial advantages of the products and Intellectual Property and the burden of administering the royalty arrangement). As used herein, "Intellectual Property" includes patents, trade secrets and know-how received by the Company from the Consultant or product development team under a product development agreement. The Company shall establish processes for reviewing individual Consultant contributions to determine whether Intellectual Property has been provided to the Company, such processes shall be approved by the Monitor. The persons responsible for deciding whether Intellectual Property has been provided shall not be involved in sales functions, and their decision is subject to Monitor approval. The identity of royalty-bearing products must be reasonable (in light of factors such as the scope of Intellectual Property transferred, the relationship of the Intellectual Property to the products and the burden of administering the royalty arrangement) and is subject to Monitor approval. Royalties must not be paid in advance or in anticipation of product development that might result in a royalty. No royalty may be paid to a Consultant that is earned by virtue of the use of the product in question by the Consultant or
 
by any member of a practice group of which the Consultant is a member. In lieu of royalties, a fixed amount may be paid for Intellectual Property provided to the Company, provided the amount is commercially reasonable and subject to Monitor approval. For patents and patent applications that are not assigned or licensed to the Company under a product development agreement, royalties, patent fees, patent costs, and/or a fixed amount may be paid for the acquisition or licensing of such patents and patent applications, subject to Monitor approval.
          38. All Consultants on product design teams shall submit invoices, at least quarterly, and supporting documentation for services rendered to the Company's design team project manager for approval, prior to any Payments being made. A Company employee shall be present at all meetings of product development teams. That employee shall report the date, the participants, and a summary of the meeting to the project manager. The project manager must certify in writing that the invoices reflect bona fide services provided by the Consultant. These invoices, supporting documentation, and certification must be submitted to the Compliance Office for Payment.
          39. In addition, the following practices have been or shall be implemented no later than sixty (60) calendar days after the Effective Date:
 
Disclosure
          40. All new Consulting Agreements and renewals shall require Consultants to disclose their financial engagement with the Company to their patients, as well as affiliated hospitals.
          41. Within thirty (30) calendar days of the Effective Date of this DPA, the Company shall prominently feature on its web site the name, city, and state of residence for each of the Company's Consultants who were retained at any time in 2007, who provided Consulting Services to the Company at any time in 2007, or who received any Payments from the Company in 2007. The Company shall also there disclose the Payments made to each Consultant to date in 2007 within $25,000 increments, and, within sixty (60) calendar days of the Effective Date, all other Payments made in other than dollar form. Within ten (10) calendar days after a new Consulting Agreement or renewal is executed, the Company shall post the name of the Consultant on its web site. If the Company has or does enter into a Consulting Agreement with an entity rather than an individual, the Company shall post both the name of the entity and the individual providing Services to the Company under the Consulting Agreement. Payment information shall be updated quarterly during the term of this DPA to reflect the total Payments made to each Consultant within $25,000 increments, and all other Payments made in other than dollar form. The Company must also disclose this information to the Consultant's affiliated hospitals.
Compliance, Training, Hotline
          42. The Company agrees to enhance, support, and maintain its existing training and education programs, including any programs recommended by the Monitor pursuant to paragraph 18, above. The programs, which shall be reviewed and approved by the Company President and
 
CEO, Board of Directors, General Counsel, Compliance Officer, and the Monitor, shall be designed to advance and underscore the Company's commitment to exemplary corporate citizenship, to best practices of effective corporate governance and the highest principles of integrity and professionalism, and to fostering a culture of openness, accountability and compliance with federal health care laws throughout the Company. Completion of such training shall be mandatory for all Company officers, executives, and employees who are involved in Sales, Marketing, Legal, Compliance, and other senior executives at the Company as proposed by the Company and approved by the Monitor (collectively the "Mandatory Participants"). Such training and education shall cover, at a minimum, all relevant federal health care laws and regulations, internal controls in place concerning Consultants and their Consulting Agreements with the Company, and the obligations assumed by, and responses expected of, the Mandatory Participants upon learning of improper, illegal, or potentially illegal acts relating to the Company's sales and marketing of hip and knee reconstruction and replacement products. The Company President and CEO, Board of Directors, General Counsel and Compliance Officer shall communicate to the Mandatory Participants, in writing or by video, their review and endorsement of the training and education programs. The Company shall commence providing this training within ninety (90) calendar days after the Effective Date of this DPA.
          43. The Company agrees to establish and/or maintain a confidential hotline and e-mail address, of which Company employees, agents, and customers are informed and can use to notify the Company of any concerns about unlawful conduct, other wrongdoing, or evidence that Company practices do not conform to the requirements of this Agreement. This hotline and e-mail address shall be reviewed by the Monitor. The Company shall post information about this hotline on its website and shall inform all those who avail themselves of the hotline of the Company's commitment to non-retaliation and to maintain confidentiality and anonymity with respect to such reports.
          44. [this paragraph left blank intentionally]
Disclosure of Monitor Reports
          45. The Company agrees that the Monitor may disclose his or her written reports, as directed by the Office, to any other federal law enforcement or regulatory agency in furtherance of an investigation of any other matters discovered by, or brought to the attention of, the Office in connection with the Office's investigation of the Company or the implementation of this DPA. The Company may identify any trade secret or proprietary information contained in any report, and request that the Monitor redact such information prior to disclosure.
Replacement of Monitor
 
          46. The Company agrees that if the Monitor resigns or is unable to serve the balance of his or her term, a successor shall be selected by the Office, in consultation with the Company, within forty-five (45) calendar days. The Company agrees that all provisions in this DPA that apply to the Monitor shall apply to any successor Monitor. The Company shall be given the opportunity to meet the successor Monitor before he or she is retained and to submit any objections to the Office.
Adopting Recommendations of Monitor
          47. The Company shall adopt all Recommendations contained in each report submitted by the Monitor to the Office, unless the Company objects to the Recommendation and the Office agrees that adoption of the Recommendation should not be required. The Monitor's reports to the Office shall not be received or reviewed by the Company prior to submission to the Office; such reports will be preliminary until the Company is given the opportunity, within ten (10) calendar days after the submission of the report to the Office, to comment to the Monitor and the Office in writing upon such reports, and the Monitor has reviewed and provided to the Office responses to such comments, upon which such reports shall be considered final. In the event the Company disagrees with any Recommendation of the Monitor, the Company and the Monitor may present the issue to the United States Attorney for his consideration and final decision, which is non-appealable.
Meeting with the U.S. Attorney
          48. Within thirty (30) calendar days of the Effective Date of this DPA, the Company agrees to call a meeting, on a date mutually agreed upon by the Company and the Office, of Company senior compliance, sales, and marketing executives, and any other Company employees who the Company desires to attend, such meeting to be attended by the United States Attorney and other representatives of the Office for the purpose of communicating the goals and expected effect of this DPA.
Cooperation
          49. The Company agrees that its continuing cooperation during the term of this DPA shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following:
 
 
Breach of Agreement
          50. Should the Office determine, in good faith and in its sole discretion, during the term of this DPA that the Company has committed any criminal conduct relating to compliance with health care laws subsequent to the Effective Date of this DPA, the Company shall, in the discretion of the Office, thereafter be subject to prosecution for any federal crimes of which the Office has knowledge.
          51. Should the Office determine in good faith and in its sole discretion that the Company has knowingly and willfully breached any material provision of this DPA, the Office shall provide written notice to the Company of the alleged breach and provide the Company with a two-week period from receipt of such notice in which to make a presentation to the Office to demonstrate that no breach occurred, or, to the extent applicable, that the breach was not material or knowingly and willfully committed or has been cured. The parties understand and agree that should the Company fail to make a presentation to the Office within the two-week period after receiving written notice of an alleged breach, it shall be conclusively presumed that the Company is in breach of this DPA. In the event the Office determines, in good faith and in its sole discretion, that a second material breach has occurred, or that the first material breach has not been adequately cured, the Office shall provide written notice to the Company of the breach, and the breach may result, in the sole discretion of the Office, in the prosecution of the Company relating to the allegations set forth in the criminal complaint described in paragraph 2 above. In the event of any breach of this DPA that results in a prosecution of the Company, such prosecution may be premised upon any information provided by or on behalf of the Company to the Office at any time, unless otherwise agreed when the information was provided. The parties further understand and agree that the determination whether the Company has breached this DPA rests solely in the discretion of the Office, and the exercise of discretion by the Office under this paragraph is not subject to review in any court or tribunal outside the Department of Justice.
          52. In the event of breach of this DPA as defined in paragraph 50 or 51 above, the Company may be subject to exclusion by OIG-HHS from participation in all federal health care programs. Such exclusion shall have national effect and shall also apply to all other federal procurement and non-procurement programs. Federal health care programs shall not pay anyone for services or items manufactured, furnished, or distributed by the Company in any capacity while the Company is excluded. This payment prohibition applies to the Company and all other individuals and entities (including, for example, anyone who employs or contracts with the Company, and any hospital or other provider where the Company provides services). The exclusion applies regardless of who submits the claim or other request for payment. The Company shall not submit or cause to be submitted to any federal health care program any claim or request for payment for services or items manufactured, furnished, or distributed by the Company during the exclusion. Violation of the conditions of the exclusion may result in criminal prosecution, the imposition of civil monetary penalties and assessments, and an
 
additional period of exclusion. The Company further agrees to hold the federal health care programs, and all federal beneficiaries and/or sponsors, harmless from any financial responsibility for services or items manufactured, furnished or distributed to such providers, beneficiaries or sponsors after the effective date of the exclusion. The Company waives any further notice of the exclusion under 42 U.S.C.  1320a-7(b)(7), and agrees not to contest such exclusion either administratively or in any state or federal court. Reinstatement to program participation is not automatic. If at the end of the period of exclusion the Company wishes to apply for reinstatement, the Company must submit a written request for reinstatement to the OIG in accordance with the provisions of 42 C.F.R.  1001.3001-.3005. The Company will not be reinstated unless and until the OIG approves such request for reinstatement.
Waivers and Limitations
          53. The Company shall expressly waive all rights to a speedy trial pursuant to the Sixth Amendment of the United States Constitution, Title 18, United States Code, Section 3161, Federal Rule of Criminal Procedure 48(b), and any applicable Local Rules of the United States District Court for the District of New Jersey, for the period that this DPA is in effect for any prosecution of the Company relating to the allegations set forth in the criminal complaint described in paragraph 2 above.
          54. In case of a knowing and willful material breach of this DPA, any prosecution of the Company relating to the allegations set forth in the criminal complaint described in paragraph 2 above that is not time-barred by the applicable statute of limitations as of the Effective Date of this DPA may be commenced against the Company notwithstanding the expiration of any applicable statute of limitations during the term of the DPA. The Company agrees to waive any claims of improper venue with respect to any prosecution of the Company relating to the allegations set forth in the criminal complaint described in paragraph 2 above. This waiver is knowing and voluntary and in express reliance on the advice of counsel. Any such waiver shall terminate upon final expiration of this DPA.
          55. The Company agrees that, if after the Effective Date, it sells all or substantially all of the Company's business operations as they exist as of the Effective Date to a single purchaser or group of affiliated purchasers during the term of this DPA, or merges with a third party in a transaction in which the Company is not the surviving entity, the Company shall include in any contract for such sale or merger a provision binding the purchaser, successor, or surviving entity to the obligations contained in this DPA.
          56. The Company is simultaneously entering into an agreement with the Office's Civil Division (the "Civil Settlement Agreement') regarding the payment of money to settle certain civil claims. The Company is also simultaneously entering into a Corporate Integrity Agreement ("CIA") with HHS-OIG to implement certain specified compliance measures. Failure by the Company to comply fully with those material terms of the Civil Settlement Agreement called to occur during the Effective Period of this DPA may constitute a breach of this DPA; provided, however, that a breach of the CIA referenced in the Civil Settlement Agreement does not
 
constitute a breach of this DPA. Any disputes arising under the CIA shall be resolved exclusively through the dispute resolution provisions of the CIA.
          57. Nothing in this DPA restricts in any way the ability of the Office to investigate and prosecute any current or former Company officer, employee, agent or attorney.
          58. It is understood that this DPA is limited to the Company and the Office, and it cannot bind other federal, state or local authorities. However, the Office will bring this DPA, the Department of Justice Petite Policy, and the cooperation of the Company and its compliance with its other obligations under this DPA to the attention of other prosecuting offices, if requested to do so.
Dismissal of Complaint
          59. The Office agrees that if the Company is in full compliance with all of its obligations under this DPA, the Office, within ten (10) calendar days of the expiration of the term of this DPA, will seek dismissal with prejudice of the criminal complaint described in paragraph 2 above. Except as otherwise provided herein, during and upon the conclusion of the term of this DPA, the Office agrees that it will not prosecute the Company further for the matters that have been the subject of the Office's investigation relating to this DPA, including but not limited to Payments that the Company made to Consultants between 2002 and 2006.
The Full Agreement
          60. This DPA constitutes the full and complete agreement between the Company and the Office and supersedes any previous agreement between them. No additional promises, agreements, or conditions have been entered into other than those set forth in this DPA, and none will be entered into unless in writing and signed by the Office, Company counsel, and a duly authorized representative of the Company. It is understood that the Office may permit exceptions to or excuse particular requirements set forth in this DPA at the written request of the Company or the Monitor, but any such permission shall be in writing.
AGREED TO:
 
          I have read this agreement and carefully reviewed every part of it with counsel for the Company. I understand the terms of this Deferred Prosecution Agreement and voluntarily agree, on behalf of Zimmer Holdings, Inc. and Zimmer Inc., to each of the terms. Before signing this Deferred Prosecution Agreement, I consulted with the attorney for the Company. The attorney fully advised me of the Company's rights, of possible defenses, of the Sentencing Guidelines' provisions, and of the consequences of entering into this Deferred Prosecution Agreement. No promises or inducements have been made other than those contained in this Deferred Prosecution Agreement. Furthermore, no one has threatened or forced me, or to my knowledge any person authorizing this Deferred Prosecution Agreement on behalf of the Company, in any way to enter into this Deferred Prosecution Agreement. I am also satisfied with the attorney's representation in this matter. I certify that I am a director of Zimmer Holdings, Inc., and that I have been duly authorized by the Board of Directors of Zimmer Holdings, Inc. to execute this certificate on behalf of the Company.
 
          I am counsel for the Company. In connection with such representation, I have examined relevant Company documents, and have discussed this Deferred Prosecution Agreement with the authorized representative of the Company. Based on my review of the foregoing materials and discussions, I am of the opinion that:
          1. The undersigned counsel is duly authorized to enter into this Deferred Prosecution Agreement on behalf of the Company; and
          2. This Deferred Prosecution Agreement has been duly and validly authorized, executed and delivered on behalf of the Company, and is a valid and binding obligation of the Company.
          Further, I have carefully reviewed every part of this Deferred Prosecution Agreement with directors of the Company. I have fully advised these directors of the Company's rights, of possible defenses, of the Sentencing Guidelines' provisions, and of the consequences of entering into this Agreement. To my knowledge, the Company's decision to enter into this Agreement is an informed and voluntary one.
 
          Upon motion duly made, seconded, and unanimously carried by the affirmative vote of all the Directors present, the following resolutions were adopted:
          WHEREAS, Zimmer, Inc. has been engaged in discussions with the United States Attorney's Office for the District of New Jersey (the "Office") in connection with an investigation being conducted by the Office;
          WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of Zimmer Holdings, Inc. consents to resolution of these discussions by entering into a deferred prosecution agreement that the Zimmer Holdings, Inc. Board of Directors has reviewed with outside counsel representing Zimmer, relating to a criminal complaint to be filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey charging Zimmer, Inc. with conspiracy to commit violations of the federal anti-kickback statute;
          NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that outside counsel representing Zimmer Holdings, Inc. and Zimmer, Inc. from Fulbright & Jaworski L.L.P. be, and they hereby are authorized to execute the Deferred Prosecution Agreement on behalf of Zimmer substantially in the same form as reviewed by the Company Board of Directors at this meeting and as attached hereto as Exhibit A, and that a Director of Zimmer Holdings Inc. is authorized to execute the Director's Certificate attached thereto.
 
          I, Chad F. Phipps, the duly elected Secretary of Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (the parent company of Zimmer, Inc., which is referred to in the accompanying Deferred Prosecution Agreement as the "Company") a corporation duly organized under the laws of the State of Delaware, hereby certify that the following is a true and exact copy of a resolution approved by the Board of Directors of the Company at a meeting held at the [location] on the [date];
          WHEREAS, Zimmer, Inc. has been engaged in discussions with the United States Attorney's Office for the District of New Jersey (the "Office") in connection with an investigation being conducted by the Office into activities of Zimmer, Inc. relating to certain payments to Consultants who have selected orthopaedic hip and knee replacement products manufactured by the Company in surgeries performed by them;
          WHEREAS, the Board of Directors of the Company consents to resolution of these discussions on behalf of Zimmer, Inc. by entering into a deferred prosecution agreement that the Board of Directors has reviewed with outside counsel representing Zimmer, relating to a criminal complaint to be filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey charging Zimmer, Inc. with conspiracy to commit violations of the federal anti-kickback statute;
          NOW THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED that outside counsel representing Zimmer from Fulbright & Jaworski, L.L.P. be, and they hereby are authorized to execute the Deferred Prosecution Agreement on behalf of Zimmer substantially in the same form as reviewed by the Board of Directors at this meeting and as attached hereto as Exhibit A, and that a Director of the Company is authorized to execute the Director's Certificate attached thereto.
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, I have hereunto signed my name as Secretary and affixed the Seal of said Corporation this 27th day of September, 2007.
SEAL

 
Exhibit 99.1
(WARSAW, IN) September 27, 2007Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (NYSE and SWX: ZMH) today announced that it has settled with the U.S. Attorney's Office in New Jersey an ongoing federal investigation into its financial relationships with consulting orthopaedic surgeons. Under the terms of the settlement, Zimmer entered into a Deferred Prosecution Agreement, will pay a civil settlement amount of $169.5 million and will be subject to oversight by a federal monitor appointed by the U.S. Department of Justice for 18 months. Zimmer did not admit any wrongdoing, plead guilty to any criminal charges or pay any criminal fines as part of the settlement. Also, the government has agreed not to pursue any criminal charges against the Company if it complies with the Deferred Prosecution Agreement. As part of the federal settlement, the Company is also entering into a five-year Corporate Integrity Agreement with the Department of Health and Human Services' Office of the Inspector General. It is Zimmer's understanding that the four other orthopaedic companies involved in this matter have also entered into resolution agreements. The Company expects to record an expense of $169.5 million in the third quarter in connection with the settlement.
According to Zimmer President and CEO David Dvorak, "We believe this resolution is in the best interest of our stockholders and we are pleased that the settlement preserves our ability to collaborate with physicians to enhance patient quality of life. Importantly, the resolution agreements clearly define how we and our key competitors will interact with physician collaborators, thereby establishing a standard of conduct across the industry. We believe that Zimmer is well positioned to abide by the requirements of the settlement
 
due to our current Corporate Compliance Program, which we began developing in 2004 and implemented in 2005. U.S. Attorney Christopher J. Christie has acknowledged that Zimmer's current Program already addresses many of the compliance related requirements that are contained in the agreements with the orthopaedic companies."
The investigation began in March 2005 when Zimmer and four other orthopaedic companies received subpoenas from the U.S. Department of Justice through the U.S. Attorney's Office in Newark, New Jersey, seeking information pertaining to consulting contracts, professional service agreements and other agreements by which remuneration is provided to orthopaedic surgeons. Zimmer cooperated fully with the federal authorities throughout the investigation and settlement process.
A copy of the Deferred Prosecution Agreement and an overview of Zimmer's Corporate Compliance Program have been posted to the Company's website,
www.zimmer.com.
About the Company
Founded in 1927 and headquartered in Warsaw, Indiana, Zimmer is the worldwide #1 pure-play orthopaedic leader in designing, developing, manufacturing and marketing reconstructive and spinal implants, trauma and related orthopaedic surgical products. Zimmer has operations in more than 24 countries around the world and sells products in more than 100 countries. Zimmer's 2006 sales were approximately $3.5 billion. The Company is supported by the efforts of more than 7,000 employees worldwide.
Zimmer Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the orthopaedics industry, management's beliefs and assumptions made by management. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as "may," "will," "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "assumes," "guides,"
 
"targets," "forecasts," and "seeks" or the negative of such terms or other variations on such terms or comparable terminology. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, the impact of our settlement of the federal investigation into financial relationships with consulting surgeons, including our compliance with the Deferred Prosecution Agreement through March 2009 and the Corporate Integrity Agreement through 2012, the outcome of the Department of Justice Antitrust Division investigation announced in June 2006, price and product competition, rapid technological development, demographic changes, dependence on new product development, the mix of our products and services, supply and prices of raw materials and products, customer demand for our products and services, control of costs and expenses, our ability to form and implement alliances, international growth, governmental laws and regulations affecting our U.S. and international businesses, including tax obligations and risks, product liability and intellectual property litigation losses, reimbursement levels from third-party payors, general industry and market conditions and growth rates and general domestic and international economic conditions including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations. For a further list and description of such risks and uncertainties, see our periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We disclaim any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be set forth in our periodic reports. Readers of this document are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, since, while we believe the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.


