FILE:ZMH/ZMH-8K-20080722171005.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
     On July 22, 2008, Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (the "Registrant") reported its results of operations for the quarter ended June 30, 2008. The Registrant's earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and the information set forth therein is incorporated herein by reference and constitutes a part of this report.
     The earnings release attached as Exhibit 99.1 includes two types of non-GAAP financial measures. The first type consists of operating performance measures that have been adjusted to exclude certain expenses. The Registrant has presented adjusted net earnings, adjusted diluted EPS and projected adjusted diluted EPS to exclude the impact of inventory step-up and acquisition, integration and other related expenses. The second type of non-GAAP financial measure consists of sales information reported on a constant currency basis which has been calculated by translating actual current and prior-period sales at the same predetermined exchange rate. The translated results are then used to determine year-over-year percentage increases or decreases that exclude the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similar measures reported by other companies.
     Management believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures allows investors to more easily compare the Registrant's performance on a period to period basis. It also aids investors in understanding the operating results of the Registrant absent the specific acquisition-related items detailed above. However, these measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, other measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
     All of the non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure in the press release.
     The Registrant is furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" with the SEC or incorporated by reference into any other filing with the SEC. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, the Registrant makes no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
Item 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
     (d) Exhibits
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 22, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contacts:
     
Zimmer Holdings, Inc. Reports Second Quarter 2008 Financial Results
(WARSAW, IN) July 22, 2008Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (NYSE and SWX: ZMH) today reported financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2008. The Company reported second quarter net sales of $1.08 billion, an increase of 11% reported and 5% constant currency over the second quarter of 2007. Diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.99 reported and $1.03 adjusted, an increase of 5% adjusted over the prior year period.
"During the quarter, our worldwide knee sales grew by 10% constant currency as we continue to expand our industry-leading knee business by offering surgeons a comprehensive portfolio of proven designs and innovative new treatment options," said David Dvorak, Zimmer President and CEO. "We are making substantial progress on our
 
operating and infrastructure initiatives, in a manner designed to position Zimmer for sustainable growth in an expanding health care market. We have also been executing plans under our enhanced compliance model, including holding numerous productive meetings with surgeons to discuss how we will continue to collaborate to improve patient care."
The Company resumed Zimmer Institute training activities, which will support the ongoing launches of several key products, including the LPS-Flex Mobile Knee, the   Flex and the  Patello-Femoral Joint System in knees. Hip products include the M/L Taper Hip with  Technology and the  Hip stem. Absent any unforeseen events, the Company anticipates FDA clearance to market the  Hip during the second half of the year.
Zimmer NexGen
Gender Solutions
Natural-Knee
Gender Solutions
VerSys
Kinectiv
Fitmore
EPOCH
Gender Solutions
During the quarter, the Company utilized $276 million of cash and $220 million in borrowings to acquire 6.9 million shares. The Company completed its $1 billion stock repurchase program, which was scheduled to expire on December 31, 2008, and initiated the $1.25 billion repurchase program announced earlier in the year. Since its first repurchase program in 2006, Zimmer has used nearly $2 billion in internally generated funds to acquire more than 10% of its shares that were outstanding as of the end of 2005.
Sales Tables
The following tables provide sales results by geographic segment and product category, as well as the percentage change compared to the prior year quarter and six months on both a reported and constant currency basis.
 
 
 
Net earnings for the second quarter were $227 million on a reported basis and $237 million on an adjusted basis, an increase of 1% adjusted over the prior year period. Operating cash flow for the second quarter was $281 million. Net earnings for the first six months of 2008 were $466 million on a reported basis and were $481 million on an adjusted basis, an increase of 2% adjusted over the prior year period.
Durom
Acetabular Component
Zimmer is temporarily suspending marketing and distribution of the Acetabular Component (Cup) in the U.S. on a voluntary basis, while the Company updates labeling to provide more detailed surgical technique instructions to surgeons and implements its surgical training program in the U.S. The Cup will continue to be marketed without interruption outside the U.S.
Durom
Durom
Durom
While many surgeons have had success implanting the Cup since it was launched in the U.S. in 2006, a subset have reported cup loosenings and revisions of the acetabular component used in total hip replacement procedures. These results contrast with product experience in Europe, where post-marketing data continue to show excellent clinical outcomes since the product launched in 2003. Following a comprehensive review of clinical experience and product conformance to specifications in the U.S. and Europe, Zimmer has found no evidence of a defect in the materials, manufacture, or design of the implant. The Company has identified that surgeons who regularly achieve the desired outcome with the Cup consistently execute crucial technique steps and place the cup in a specific manner. Following its review, Zimmer has determined that revised surgical technique instructions and a surgical training program are required to more consistently achieve desired clinical results in the U.S. The Company has shared its review and conclusions with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and will continue to update the Agency.
Durom
Durom
While the Company believes the likelihood of currently implanted patients requiring revision is low, Zimmer has sent a letter to U.S surgeons advising them to stop implanting the Cup, until the updated labeling is issued providing more detailed
Durom
 
surgical technique instructions and they receive training. Additional information is being made available at .
www.zimmer.com
Guidance
The Company is revising its guidance and expects full-year 2008 sales growth to be in a range of 8.5% to 9.0% over the prior year, which reflects constant currency growth of 4.5% to 5.0%. This compares with prior guidance of 10% to 11% reported and 6% to 7% constant currency growth over prior year. The adjustment to sales guidance includes a projected loss of $20 to $30 million in hip product sales pertaining to the Cup in the U.S., weakness in U.S. Dental revenues and slower than anticipated uptake on certain new products. Adjusted diluted earnings per share for the full year are expected to be in a range of $4.05 to $4.10, as compared to prior guidance of $4.20 to $4.25. Revised earnings guidance gives effect to the reduction in sales from prior guidance as well as an increase in operating expenses associated with the global implementation of the Company's enhanced compliance program. Further details regarding the revised guidance will be discussed during tomorrow's investor conference call.
Durom
Conference Call
The Company will conduct its second quarter 2008 investor conference call tomorrow, July 23, 2008, at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The live audio webcast can be accessed via Zimmer's Investor Relations website at . It will be archived for replay following the conference.
http://investor.zimmer.com
Individuals who wish to dial into the conference call may do so at (888) 881-6248. International callers should dial (706) 634-6422. A digital recording will be available two hours after the completion of the conference call from July 23, 2008 to August 6, 2008. To access the recording, US/Canada callers should dial (800) 642-1687, or for International callers, dial (706) 645-9291, and enter the Conference ID, 54192735. A copy of this press release and other financial and statistical information about the
 
periods to be presented in the conference call will be accessible through the Zimmer website at .
http://investor.zimmer.com
About the Company
Founded in 1927 and headquartered in Warsaw, Indiana, Zimmer is a worldwide leader in designing, developing, manufacturing and marketing orthopaedic reconstructive, spinal and trauma devices, dental implants, and related orthopaedic surgical products. Zimmer has operations in more than 25 countries around the world and sells products in more than 100 countries. Zimmer's 2007 sales were approximately $3.9 billion. The Company is supported by the efforts of more than 8,000 employees worldwide.
Note on Non-GAAP Financial Measures
As used in this press release, the term refers to operating performance measures that exclude inventory step-up and acquisition, integration and other expenses. The term "" refers to any financial measure that excludes the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure are included in this press release.
"adjusted"
constant currency
Zimmer Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the orthopaedics industry, management's beliefs and assumptions made by management. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as "may," "will," "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "assumes," "guides," "targets," "forecasts," and "seeks" or the negative of such terms or other variations on such terms or comparable terminology. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our compliance with the Deferred Prosecution Agreement through March 2009 and the Corporate Integrity Agreement through 2012, the impact of our enhanced healthcare compliance global initiatives and business practices on our relationships with customers and consultants, our market share and our overall financial
 
performance, the success of our quality initiatives, the outcome of the informal investigation by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission into Foreign Corrupt Practices Act matters announced in October 2007, price and product competition, rapid technological development, demographic changes, dependence on new product development, the mix of our products and services, supply and prices of raw materials and products, customer demand for our products and services, control of costs and expenses, our ability to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection, our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, our ability to form and implement alliances, international growth, our compliance with governmental laws and regulations affecting our U.S. and international businesses including regulations of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and foreign government regulators and tax obligations and risks, the impact of suspending U.S. distribution of one of our key hip replacement products, product liability and intellectual property litigation losses, reimbursement levels from third-party payors, cost-containment efforts of healthcare purchasing organizations, our ability to retain the independent agents and distributors who market our products, general industry and market conditions and growth rates and general domestic and international economic conditions including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations. For a further list and description of such risks and uncertainties, see our periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We disclaim any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be set forth in our periodic reports. Readers of this document are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, since, while we believe the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


