FILE:ZMH/ZMH-8K-20080424071535.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
     On April 24, 2008, Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (the "Registrant") reported its results of operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2008. The Registrant's earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and the information set forth therein is incorporated herein by reference and constitutes a part of this report.
     The earnings release attached as Exhibit 99.1 includes two types of non-GAAP financial measures. The first type consists of operating performance measures that have been adjusted to exclude certain expenses. The Registrant has presented adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted EPS for the first quarter 2008 and full year 2008 projected adjusted diluted EPS to exclude the impact of acquisition, integration and other related expenses. The second type of non-GAAP financial measure consists of sales information reported on a constant currency basis which has been calculated by translating actual current and prior-period sales at the same predetermined exchange rate. The translated results are then used to determine year-over-year percentage increases or decreases that exclude the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similar measures reported by other companies.
     Management believes that the presentation of these non-GAAP financial measures allows investors to more easily compare the Registrant's performance on a period to period basis. It also aids investors in understanding the operating results of the Registrant absent the specific acquisition-related items detailed above. However, these measures should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, other measures prepared in accordance with GAAP.
     All of the non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure in the press release.
     The Registrant is furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" with the SEC or incorporated by reference into any other filing with the SEC. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, the Registrant makes no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 24, 2008
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
(WARSAW, IN) April 24, 2008Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (NYSE and SWX: ZMH) today reported financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2008. The Company reported first quarter net sales of $1.06 billion, an increase of 11% reported and 6% constant currency over the first quarter of 2007. Diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $1.02 reported, an increase of 4%, and $1.04 adjusted, an increase of 6% over the prior year period.
"We are pleased with our earnings performance and cash flow generation in the first quarter," said David Dvorak, Zimmer President and CEO. "Sales results reflect continued growth in our reconstructive business and we expect to achieve higher levels of penetration with new products as the year progresses. For instance, we are well positioned to move forward with our new knee offerings that are coming on line, including the LPS-Flex Mobile Knee, the 
Zimmer NexGen
Gender Solutions
 
 Flex and the  Patello-femoral Joint System. In addition, our  Technology for hip replacement, as well as our  Hip stem, which received FDA clearance for marketing in early March, are creative and innovative additions to our portfolio."
Natural-Knee
Gender Solutions
Kinectiv
Fitmore
The Company said it has made substantial progress on its strategic infrastructure and operating initiatives. "We are well on our way with construction and recruiting efforts at our recently announced Shannon, Ireland facility, and we are making additional investments across our global manufacturing network," Mr. Dvorak said. "Further, the April 17, 2008, announcement of our enhanced compliance model was an important milestone for our Company. These are all critical steps in preparing our Company to better serve the healthcare markets of the future."
The Company also announced that its Board of Directors has approved an additional $1.25 billion stock repurchase program, which expires on December 31, 2009. This is in addition to the remaining capacity of $477 million as of March 31, 2008, under the repurchase program authorized in December 2006. Purchases may be made in the open market or in privately negotiated transactions from time to time in compliance with Securities and Exchange Commission regulations, depending on market conditions and other factors.  The Company had approximately 231.5 million shares of common stock outstanding as of March 31, 2008.
"As we continue to evaluate our potential uses of cash and other resources, the Board has confirmed that repurchasing shares is consistent with our confidence in the Company's long-term growth prospects and provides an effective avenue to return value to our stockholders," said Mr. Dvorak.
Sales Tables
The following tables provide sales results by geographic segment and product category, as well as the percentage change compared to the prior year quarter on both a reported and constant currency basis.
 
 
Net earnings for the first quarter were $239 million on a reported basis and $244 million on an adjusted basis, an increase of 4% adjusted over the prior year period. Operating cash flow for the first quarter was $243 million.
Guidance
The Company updated its full year 2008 sales guidance and reaffirmed its earnings guidance.  Reported sales for 2008 are expected to increase by 10 to 11% over the prior year. This sales guidance reflects a reduction in constant currency growth to 6 to 7%, countered by favorable foreign currency, now estimated at 4%.  Full year 2008 adjusted diluted earnings per share are expected to be in the same range as previously issued guidance of $4.20 to $4.25.  These estimates include the impact of previously announced actions at the Company's Ohio-based Orthopaedic Surgical Products operation. These actions are expected to adversely impact 2008 adjusted diluted earnings per share by $0.18 to $0.20, including $0.07 related to inventory charges, idle plant costs and other nonrecurring expenses. The Company expects this impact to be offset by reductions in planned operating expenses, share repurchases and other actions.
Conference Call
The Company will conduct its first quarter 2008 investor conference call today, April 24, 2008, at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The live audio webcast can be accessed via Zimmer's Investor Relations website at . It will be archived for replay following the conference.
http://investor.zimmer.com
Individuals who wish to dial into the conference call may do so at (888) 815-6162. International callers should dial (706) 634-9502. A digital recording will be available two hours after the completion of the conference call from April 24, 2008 to May 4, 2008. To access the recording, US/Canada callers should dial (800) 642-1687, or for International callers, dial (706) 645-9291, and enter the Conference ID, 41904442. A copy of this press release and other financial and statistical information about the periods
 
to be presented in the conference call will be accessible through the Zimmer website at .
http://investor.zimmer.com
About the Company
Founded in 1927 and headquartered in Warsaw, Indiana, Zimmer is a worldwide leader in designing, developing, manufacturing and marketing orthopaedic reconstructive, spinal and trauma devices, dental implants, and related orthopaedic surgical products. Zimmer has operations in more than 25 countries around the world and sells products in more than 100 countries. Zimmer's 2007 sales were approximately $3.9 billion. The Company is supported by the efforts of more than 7,500 employees worldwide.
Note on Non-GAAP Financial Measures
As used in this press release, the term refers to operating performance measures that exclude acquisition, integration and other expenses. The term "" refers to any financial measure that excludes the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure are included in this press release.
"adjusted"
constant currency
Zimmer Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the orthopaedics industry, management's beliefs and assumptions made by management. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as "may," "will," "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "assumes," "guides," "targets," "forecasts," and "seeks" or the negative of such terms or other variations on such terms or comparable terminology. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our compliance with the Deferred Prosecution Agreement through March 2009 and the Corporate Integrity Agreement through 2012, the impact of our enhanced healthcare compliance global initiatives and business practices on our relationships with customers and consultants, our market share and our overall financial
 
performance, the success of our quality initiatives, the outcome of the informal investigation by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission into Foreign Corrupt Practices Act matters announced in October 2007, price and product competition, rapid technological development, demographic changes, dependence on new product development, the mix of our products and services, supply and prices of raw materials and products, customer demand for our products and services, control of costs and expenses, our ability to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection, our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, our ability to form and implement alliances, international growth, our compliance with governmental laws and regulations affecting our U.S. and international businesses including regulations of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and foreign government regulators and tax obligations and risks, product liability and intellectual property litigation losses, reimbursement levels from third-party payors, cost-containment efforts of healthcare purchasing organizations, our ability to retain the independent agents and distributors who market our products, general industry and market conditions and growth rates and general domestic and international economic conditions including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations. For a further list and description of such risks and uncertainties, see our periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We disclaim any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be set forth in our periodic reports. Readers of this document are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, since, while we believe the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Projected Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2008:


