FILE:ZMH/ZMH-8K-20081023073050.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
     On October 23, 2008, Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (the "Registrant") reported its results of operations for the quarter ended September 30, 2008. The Registrant's earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and the information set forth therein is incorporated herein by reference and constitutes a part of this report.
     The earnings release attached as Exhibit 99.1 includes two types of non-GAAP financial measures that differ from financial measures calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similar measures reported by other companies and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, other measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. The first type of non-GAAP financial measure included in the press release consists of sales information reported on a constant currency basis which has been calculated by translating actual current and prior-period sales at the same predetermined exchange rate. The translated results are then used to determine year-over-year percentage increases or decreases that exclude the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
     The second type of non-GAAP financial measure included in the press release consists of operating performance measures that have been adjusted to exclude certain items. The Registrant has presented adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted EPS for the third quarter and first nine months of 2008 and projected adjusted diluted EPS for the full year 2008 to exclude the effects of the following:
     In addition, projected adjusted diluted EPS for the full year 2008 excludes the following:
     Adjusted net earnings and adjusted diluted EPS for the 2007 periods presented in the press release exclude the effects of the following:
     The items identified above are typically highly variable and of a size that could have a substantial impact on the Registrant's reported operations for a period. Management considers
 
the provision related to the Acetabular Component a non-recurring item that, as explained in the press release, is qualitatively different from the Registrant's routine product liability claims.
Durom
     Management uses this non-GAAP information internally to evaluate the performance of the business and believes that it provides useful information to investors by offering:
     All of the non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure in the press release.
     The Registrant is furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" with the SEC or incorporated by reference into any other filing with the SEC. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, the Registrant makes no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 23, 2008
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contacts:
(WARSAW, IN) October 23, 2008Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (NYSE and SWX: ZMH) today reported financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2008. The Company reported third quarter net sales of $952 million, an increase of 5% reported and 3% constant currency over the third quarter of 2007. Diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.95 reported and $0.97 adjusted, an increase of 7% over the prior year period, including a one-time gain of $0.08 per share on the sale of certain equity holdings.
"We are pleased with the considerable progress that we have made on our previously announced operating, infrastructure and compliance initiatives. That progress includes implementation of our enhanced model for collaborating with surgeon consultants, who are so vital to solving clinical problems and improving patient outcomes," said David Dvorak, Zimmer President and CEO. "Although this transition is negatively impacting
 
our operating results at this point, we are confident that our actions will position us to capture future growth opportunities represented by the markets we serve."
Net earnings for the third quarter were $214.7 million on a reported basis and $218.5 million on an adjusted basis, an increase of 1.4% adjusted over the prior year period. Operating cash flow for the third quarter was $308 million. Net earnings for the first nine months of 2008 were $681.1 million on a reported basis and $699.7 million on an adjusted basis, an increase of 2.1% adjusted over the prior year period.
During the third quarter of 2008, the Company acquired 720,000 shares for an aggregate purchase price of $48.6 million under its $1.25 billion repurchase program. At the end of the quarter, $1.18 billion remained available to fund share repurchases under this authorization, which expires on December 31, 2009.
Comparisons of reported earnings for 2008 and 2007 are impacted by the following matters:
The Company and the U.S. Internal Revenue Service entered into an agreement resolving the uncertainty related to the deductibility of the $169.5 million civil settlement paid in the third quarter of 2007.  As a result, the Company recorded an estimated current tax benefit of $31 million in the third quarter of 2008, or approximately $0.13 per share. Adjusted 2008 figures in this press release exclude the impact of this estimated current tax benefit.
During the quarter, the Company also recorded a provision of $47.5 million, or approximately $0.13 per share, for known and anticipated claims relating to the previously announced voluntary suspension of marketing and distribution of the Acetabular Component in the U.S. Adjusted 2008 figures in this release exclude the impact of this provision.
Durom
 
Guidance
The Company is revising its sales growth guidance and now expects full-year 2008 sales growth to be in a range of 7.0% to 7.5% over the prior year, which reflects constant currency growth of 3.7% to 4.2% and includes an estimated $20 million of revenues from the Abbott Spine acquisition. This compares with prior guidance of 8.5% to 9.0% reported and 4.5% to 5.0% constant currency growth over prior year. The adjustment to sales guidance represents a projected reduction in product sales of $60 to $80 million, of which $25 million is related to changes in foreign currency assumptions. The Company is also revising its adjusted diluted earnings per share guidance for the full year from a range of $4.05 to $4.10 to a range of $4.03 to $4.08.  The recent Abbott Spine acquisition, which is reflected in the revised earnings guidance, is now expected to have a dilutive impact of $0.02 on earnings per share during the fourth quarter of 2008.
Conference Call
The Company will conduct its third quarter 2008 investor conference call today, October 23, 2008, at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The live audio webcast can be accessed via Zimmer's Investor Relations website at It will be archived for replay following the conference.
http://investor.zimmer.com.
Individuals who wish to dial into the conference call may do so at (888) 881-6248. International callers should dial (706) 634-6422. A digital recording will be available two hours after the completion of the conference call from October 23, 2008 to November 6, 2008. To access the recording, US/Canada callers should dial (800) 642-1687, or for International callers, dial (706) 645-9291, and enter the Conference ID, 66808450. A copy of this press release and other financial and statistical information about the periods to be presented in the conference call will be accessible through the Zimmer website at .
http://investor.zimmer.com
 
Sales Tables
The following tables provide sales results by geographic segment and product category, as well as the percentage change compared to the prior year quarter and nine months on both a reported and constant currency basis.
 
 
 
About the Company
Founded in 1927 and headquartered in Warsaw, Indiana, Zimmer designs, develops, manufactures and markets orthopaedic reconstructive, spinal and trauma devices, dental implants, and related orthopaedic surgical products. Zimmer has operations in more than 25 countries around the world and sells products in more than 100 countries. Zimmer's 2007 sales were approximately $3.9 billion. The Company is supported by the efforts of approximately 8,500 employees worldwide.
Note on Non-GAAP Financial Measures
As used in this press release, the term refers to operating performance measures that exclude the 2007 civil settlement and estimated tax benefit, the 2008 provision for certain Cup product claims in the U.S., in-process research and development (IPR&D), inventory step-up and acquisition, integration and other expenses. The provision related to the Cup is classified as a non-recurring item that is different from the Company's routine product liability claims for a number of reasons, including that the provision is limited to revisions associated with surgeries that predate the Company's voluntary suspension and which also occur within two years of the original surgery date. The term "" refers to any financial measure that excludes the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure are included in this press release.
"adjusted"
Durom
Durom
constant currency
Zimmer Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the orthopaedics industry, management's beliefs and assumptions made by management. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as "may," "will," "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "assumes," "guides," "targets," "forecasts," and "seeks" or the negative of such terms or other variations on such terms or comparable terminology. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our compliance with the Deferred Prosecution Agreement through March 2009 and the Corporate Integrity Agreement through 2012, the impact of our
 
enhanced healthcare compliance global initiatives and business practices on our relationships with customers and consultants, our market share and our overall financial performance, the success of our quality initiatives, the outcome of the informal investigation by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission into Foreign Corrupt Practices Act matters announced in October 2007, price and product competition, rapid technological development, demographic changes, dependence on new product development, the mix of our products and services, supply and prices of raw materials and products, customer demand for our products and services, control of costs and expenses, our ability to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection, our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses, our ability to form and implement alliances, international growth, our compliance with governmental laws and regulations affecting our U.S. and international businesses including regulations of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and foreign government regulators and tax obligations and risks, the impact of temporarily suspending U.S. distribution of one of our key hip replacement products, product liability and intellectual property litigation losses, reimbursement levels from third-party payors, cost-containment efforts of healthcare purchasing organizations, our ability to retain the independent agents and distributors who market our products, general industry and market conditions and growth rates and general domestic and international economic conditions including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations. For a further list and description of such risks and uncertainties, see our periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We disclaim any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be set forth in our periodic reports. Readers of this document are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, since, while we believe the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Projected Twelve Months Ended December 31, 2008:


