FILE:ZMH/ZMH-8K-20090423073036.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
    Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
    Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
    Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
     On April 23, 2009, Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (the "Registrant") reported its results of operations for the quarter ended March 31, 2009. The Registrant's earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and the information set forth therein is incorporated herein by reference and constitutes a part of this report.
     The earnings release attached as Exhibit 99.1 includes two types of non-GAAP financial measures that differ from financial measures calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similar measures reported by other companies and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, other measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. The first type of non-GAAP financial measure included in the press release consists of sales information reported on a constant currency basis which has been calculated by translating actual current and prior-period sales at the same predetermined exchange rate. The translated results are then used to determine year-over-year percentage increases or decreases that exclude the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
     The second type of non-GAAP financial measure included in the press release consists of operating performance measures that have been adjusted to exclude certain items. The Registrant has presented adjusted net earnings, adjusted diluted EPS and projected adjusted diluted EPS to exclude the effects of inventory step-up and acquisition, integration and other related expenses, net of tax.
     Management uses this non-GAAP information internally to evaluate the performance of the business and believes that it provides useful information to investors by offering the ability to make more meaningful period-to-period comparisons of the Registrant's on-going operating results, the ability to better identify operating trends that may otherwise be masked or distorted by these types of items and to perform related trend analysis, and a higher degree of transparency of certain expenses.
     All of the non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure in the press release.
     The Registrant is furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" with the SEC or incorporated by reference into any other filing with the SEC. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, the Registrant makes no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
 
Item 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
     (d) Exhibits
 
          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: April 23, 2009
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
Contacts:
(WARSAW, IN) April 23, 2009Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (NYSE and SWX: ZMH) today reported financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2009. The Company reported first quarter net sales of $993 million, a decrease of 6.3% reported and 1.5% constant currency from the first quarter of 2008. Diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $0.91 reported and $0.95 adjusted, a decrease of 8.7% adjusted from the prior year period.
"Our performance for the first quarter was consistent with our expectations and we are reaffirming our 2009 sales and earnings guidance," said David Dvorak, Zimmer President and CEO. "We continue to make progress in our efforts to rebuild momentum in our business. Our success at the annual AAOS meeting was highlighted by the large number of surgeons who attended our booth. In addition, we showcased our Technology and other innovative products, as well as our enhanced medical education program. Moreover, we have now emerged from federal monitoring and the Deferred
Trabecular Metal
TM
 
Prosecution Agreement with global business practices that position us for sustainable, long-term growth."
Net earnings for the first quarter were $202.2 million on a reported basis and $210.0 million on an adjusted basis, a decrease of 14.0% adjusted from the prior year period. Operating cash flow for the first quarter was $185 million.
During the quarter, the Company utilized $54 million of cash and $247 million in borrowings to acquire 8.6 million shares under its $1.25 billion repurchase program. At the end of the quarter, $833 million of share repurchase authorization remained available under this program, which expires on December 31, 2009.
Guidance
The Company reaffirmed its full year 2009 sales and earnings guidance. It expects full-year revenues for 2009 to increase between 1% and 3% on a constant currency basis, with revenues anticipated to be flat in the second quarter of the year and improving thereafter. Assuming foreign currency exchange rates remain consistent with current levels, the Company estimates that foreign currency translation will reduce revenue by approximately 4% for the full year 2009. Adjusted diluted earnings per share are expected to show negative growth in the second and third quarters with positive growth in the fourth quarter. Full-year 2009 adjusted diluted earnings per share are projected to be in a range of $3.85 to $4.00.
Conference Call
The Company will conduct its first quarter 2009 investor conference call today, April 23, 2009, at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The live audio webcast can be accessed via Zimmer's Investor Relations website at . It will be archived for replay following the conference.
http://investor.zimmer.com
 
Individuals who wish to dial into the conference call may do so at (888) 881-6248. International callers should dial (706) 634-6422. A digital recording will be available two hours after the completion of the conference call from April 23, 2009 to May 7, 2009. To access the recording, U.S./Canada callers should dial (800) 642-1687, and International callers should dial (706) 645-9291, and enter the Conference ID, 93622112. A copy of this press release and other financial and statistical information about the periods to be presented in the conference call will be accessible through the Zimmer website at .
http://investor.zimmer.com
Sales Tables
The following tables provide sales results by geographic segment and product category, as well as the percentage change compared to the prior year quarter on both a reported and constant currency basis. Beginning in 2009, the Company's Dental product category sales are no longer included within its Reconstructive products category. Prior year amounts related to Dental product category sales have been reclassified to conform to the 2009 presentation.
 
 
About the Company
Founded in 1927 and headquartered in Warsaw, Indiana, Zimmer designs, develops, manufactures and markets orthopaedic reconstructive, spinal and trauma devices, dental implants, and related surgical products. Zimmer has operations in more than 25 countries around the world and sells products in more than 100 countries. Zimmer's 2008 sales were approximately $4.1 billion. The Company is supported by the efforts of approximately 8,500 employees worldwide.
Note on Non-GAAP Financial Measures
As used in this press release, the term refers to operating performance measures that exclude inventory step-up and acquisition, integration and other expenses. The term refers to any financial measure that excludes the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure are included in this press release.
"adjusted"
"constant currency"
Zimmer Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the orthopaedics industry, management's beliefs and assumptions made by management. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as "may," "will," "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "assumes," "guides," "targets," "forecasts," and "seeks" or the negative of such terms or other variations on such terms or comparable terminology. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our compliance with the Corporate Integrity Agreement through 2012; the impact of our enhanced healthcare compliance global initiatives and business practices on our relationships with customers and consultants, our market share and our overall financial performance; the success of our quality initiatives; the outcome of the informal investigation by the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission into Foreign Corrupt Practices Act matters announced in October 2007; price and product competition; changes in customer demand for our products and services caused by demographic
 
changes or other factors; dependence on new product development, technological advances and innovation; shifts in the product category or regional sales mix of our products and services; supply and prices of raw materials and products; control of costs and expenses; our ability to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection; our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses; our ability to form and implement alliances; challenges relating to changes in and compliance with governmental laws and regulations affecting our U.S. and international businesses, including regulations of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and foreign government regulators and tax obligations and risks; the impact of temporarily suspending U.S. distribution of one of our key hip replacement products; product liability and intellectual property litigation losses; reductions in reimbursement levels from third-party payors and cost-containment efforts of healthcare purchasing organizations; our ability to retain the independent agents and distributors who market our products; changes in general industry and market conditions, including domestic and international growth rates and general domestic and international economic conditions, including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations; and the costs of defending or resolving putative class action securities litigation and lawsuits, investigations or other proceedings resulting from our September 2007 settlement with the U.S. government and other matters. For a further list and description of such risks and uncertainties, see our periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We disclaim any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be set forth in our periodic reports. Readers of this document are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, since, while we believe the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.
 
Certain amounts in the 2008 consolidated statement of earnings have been reclassifed to conform to the 2009 presentation.
 
 
 
 
 
 


