FILE:ZMH/ZMH-8K-20090112170931.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
     On January 8, 2009, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (the "Company"), upon the recommendation of the Corporate Governance Committee, appointed Betsy J. Bernard to the Board, with a term to expire at the Company's 2009 annual meeting of stockholders to be held May 4. The appointment of Ms. Bernard fills a vacancy on the Board. Ms. Bernard has not been appointed to any committees of the Board at this time; however, the Company expects that she will be appointed to one or more Board committees in the future. There are no arrangements or understandings between Ms. Bernard and any other persons pursuant to which Ms. Bernard was appointed a director of the Company.
     As a non-employee director, Ms. Bernard will participate in the non-employee director compensation arrangements described in the Company's definitive proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 20, 2008. In addition, it is expected that she will execute the Company's standard form of non-employee director indemnification agreement. The form of the indemnification agreement was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 31, 2008 and is incorporated herein by reference.
     A copy of the Company's press release announcing the appointment of Ms. Bernard to the Board is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and the information set forth therein is incorporated herein by reference.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: January 12, 2009
 

(WARSAW, IN) January 12, 2009Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (NYSE and SWX: ZMH) announced today that Betsy J. Bernard, a retired AT&T Corporation executive, has been appointed to its Board of Directors. Ms. Bernard currently also serves on the boards of three other publicly traded companies.  
"Betsy Bernard established an excellent record over 30 years of leading large, consumer-facing organizations in competitive, highly regulated markets," said John L. McGoldrick, Chairman of the Board of Directors. "We are delighted that she is joining the Zimmer board and will bring her skills and insights to bear on the business of Zimmer."
Since retiring from AT&T in 2003, Ms. Bernard has focused on her work with a number of corporate boards and on civic activities. At AT&T, she served as President, AT&T Business, a $26 billion division with more than four million customers. She also served as Executive Vice President and Chief Executive Officer, AT&T Consumer, among other leadership positions.
In addition to her AT&T experience, Ms. Bernard also served in senior executive roles at Qwest Communications International, US West Corporation and Pacific Bell, where she served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Pacific Telesis. She is a frequent speaker on women's leadership issues and served on the board of the International Women's Forum. Ms. Bernard holds a Bachelor of Science degree from St. Lawrence University, an MBA from Farleigh Dickinson University and a Master of Science degree in Management from Stanford University.
 
About the Company
Founded in 1927 and headquartered in Warsaw, Indiana, Zimmer is a worldwide leader in designing, developing, manufacturing and marketing orthopaedic reconstructive, spinal and trauma devices, dental implants, and related surgical products. Zimmer has operations in more than 25 countries around the world and sells products in more than 100 countries. Zimmer's 2007 sales were approximately $3.9 billion. The Company is supported by the efforts of more than 8,500 employees worldwide.
Zimmer Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the orthopaedics industry, management's beliefs and assumptions made by management. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as "may," "will," "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "assumes," "guides," "targets," "forecasts," and "seeks" or the negative of such terms or other variations on such terms or comparable terminology. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. For a list and description of such risks and uncertainties, see our periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We disclaim any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be set forth in our periodic reports. Readers of this document are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, since, while we believe the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.


