FILE:ZMH/ZMH-8K-20110727071710.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
     On July 27, 2011, Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (the "Registrant") reported its results of operations for the quarter ended June 30, 2011. The Registrant's earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and the information set forth therein is incorporated herein by reference and constitutes a part of this report.
     The earnings release attached as Exhibit 99.1 includes two types of non-GAAP financial measures that differ from financial measures calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similar measures reported by other companies and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, other measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. The first type of non-GAAP financial measure included in the press release consists of sales information reported on a constant currency basis which has been calculated by translating actual current and prior-period sales at the same predetermined exchange rate. The translated results are then used to determine year-over-year percentage increases or decreases that exclude the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
     The second type of non-GAAP financial measure included in the press release consists of operating performance measures that have been adjusted to exclude certain items. The earnings release presents adjusted net earnings, adjusted diluted EPS and projected adjusted diluted EPS to exclude the effects of inventory step-up, the provision for certain Acetabular Component product claims, special items and certain tax adjustments. Included in special items are acquisition and integration costs as well as employee termination benefits, certain contract terminations and asset impairment charges connected with global restructuring and transformation initiatives.
Durom
     Management uses this non-GAAP information internally to evaluate the performance of the business and believes that it provides useful information to investors by offering the ability to make more meaningful period-to-period comparisons of the Registrant's on-going operating results, the ability to better identify operating trends that may otherwise be masked or distorted by these types of items and to perform related trend analysis, and a higher degree of transparency of certain items. In addition, adjusted diluted EPS is used as a performance metric in the Registrant's incentive compensation programs.
     All of the non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure in the press release.
     The Registrant is furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" with the SEC or incorporated by reference into any other filing with the SEC. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, the Registrant makes no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
 
Item 9.01 FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
     (d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 27, 2011
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contacts:
(WARSAW, IN) July 27, 2011Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (NYSE and SIX: ZMH) today reported financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2011. The Company reported second quarter net sales of $1,137 million, an increase of 7.5% reported and 2.1% constant currency over the second quarter of 2010. Diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $1.06 reported and $1.21 adjusted, an increase of 11% adjusted over the prior year period.
"Zimmer again generated solid results in the second quarter, amid ongoing challenging global economic conditions," said David Dvorak, Zimmer President and CEO. "Our results reflect improved sales execution in support of new product introductions across our diverse geographic channels, as well as the positive impact of operational improvement initiatives and continued disciplined capital deployment."
Net earnings for the second quarter were $203.8 million on a reported basis and $232.5 million on an adjusted basis, an increase of 5.1% adjusted over the prior year period. Operating cash flow for the second quarter was $251.0 million.
 
In the second quarter, the Company recorded an additional $50 million provision for known and anticipated worldwide claims related to the previously announced voluntary suspension of marketing and distribution of the Acetabular Component in the United States. Adjusted 2011 figures in this release exclude the impact of this provision.
Durom
During the quarter, the Company utilized $121 million of cash to acquire 1.8 million shares. At the end of the second quarter, $848.6 million of share repurchase authorization remained available under the current program, which expires on December 31, 2013.
Guidance
The Company updated its full-year revenue and adjusted EPS guidance for 2011. Full-year revenues for 2011 are now expected to increase between 2.5% and 3.5% on a constant currency basis from 2010. The Company estimates that foreign currency translation will increase revenues by approximately 3% for the full year 2011, resulting in reported revenue growth between 5.5% and 6.5%. This compares with prior revenue guidance of 2.0% to 4.0% constant currency and 5.0% to 7.0% reported growth over prior year. Full-year 2011 diluted earnings per share are now projected to be in a range of $4.25 to $4.35 on a reported basis and $4.70 to $4.80 on an adjusted basis, which represents a narrowing toward the top end of prior adjusted earnings guidance.
Conference Call
The Company will conduct its second quarter 2011 investor conference call today, July 27, 2011, at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The live audio webcast can be accessed via Zimmer's Investor Relations website at . It will be archived for replay following the conference.
http://investor.zimmer.com
Individuals who wish to dial into the conference call may do so at (888) 878-3901. International callers should dial (706) 634-9520. A digital recording will be available two hours after the completion of the conference call from July 27, 2011, to August 10,
 
2011. To access the recording, US/Canada callers should dial (800) 642-1687, or for International callers, dial (706) 645-9291, and enter the conference ID 76248595.
Sales Tables
The following tables provide sales results by geographic segment and product category, as well as the percentage change compared to the prior year quarter and six months on both a reported and constant currency basis.
 
 
 
About the Company
Founded in 1927 and headquartered in Warsaw, Indiana, Zimmer designs, develops, manufactures and markets orthopaedic reconstructive, spinal and trauma devices, dental implants, and related surgical products. Zimmer has operations in more than 25 countries around the world and sells products in more than 100 countries. Zimmer's 2010 sales were approximately $4.2 billion. The Company is supported by the efforts of more than 8,000 employees worldwide.
Website Information
We routinely post important information for investors on our website, , in the "Investor Relations" section. We intend to use this website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor the Investor Relations section of our website, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings, public conference calls, presentations and webcasts. The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into, and is not a part of, this document.
www.zimmer.com
Note on Non-GAAP Financial Measures
As used in this press release, the term "" refers to operating performance measures that exclude inventory step-up, the provision for certain Acetabular Component product claims, special items and certain tax adjustments. Included in special items are acquisition and integration costs as well as employee termination benefits, certain contract terminations and asset impairment charges connected with global restructuring and transformation initiatives. The term "" refers to any financial measure that excludes the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure are included in this press release.
adjusted
Durom
constant currency
Zimmer Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the orthopaedics industry, management's beliefs and assumptions made by management. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as "may," "will," "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "assumes," "guides," "targets," "forecasts," and "seeks" or the negative of such terms or other variations on such terms or comparable terminology. These statements are not guarantees of future performance
 
and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, our compliance with the Corporate Integrity Agreement through 2012; the success of our quality and operational improvement initiatives; the outcome of the investigation by the U.S. government into Foreign Corrupt Practices Act matters announced in October 2007; price and product competition; changes in customer demand for our products and services caused by demographic changes or other factors; dependence on new product development, technological advances and innovation; shifts in the product category or regional sales mix of our products and services; supply and prices of raw materials and products; control of costs and expenses; our ability to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection; our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses; our ability to form and implement alliances; challenges relating to changes in and compliance with governmental laws and regulations affecting our U.S. and international businesses, including regulations of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and foreign government regulators; changes in tax obligations arising from tax reform measures or examinations by tax authorities; product liability and intellectual property litigation losses; the impact of health care reform measures in the U.S. including the impact of the new excise tax on medical devices, reductions in reimbursement levels from third-party payors and cost-containment efforts of health care purchasing organizations; our ability to retain the independent agents and distributors who market our products; and changes in general industry and market conditions, including domestic and international growth rates and general domestic and international economic conditions, including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations. For a further list and description of such risks and uncertainties, see our periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We disclaim any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be set forth in our periodic reports. Readers of this document are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, since, while we believe the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.
 
Certain amounts in the 2010 consolidated statement of earnings have been reclassified to conform to the 2011 presentation.
 
Certain amounts in the 2010 consolidated statement of earnings have been reclassified to conform to the 2011 presentation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


