FILE:ZMH/ZMH-8K-20121025071605.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 25, 2012, Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (the "Registrant") reported its results of operations for the quarter ended September 30, 2012. The Registrant's earnings release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 and the information set forth therein is incorporated herein by reference and constitutes a part of this report.
The earnings release attached as Exhibit 99.1 includes two types of non-GAAP financial measures that differ from financial measures calculated in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"). These non-GAAP financial measures may not be comparable to similar measures reported by other companies and should be considered in addition to, and not as a substitute for, or superior to, other measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. The first type of non-GAAP financial measure included in the press release consists of sales information reported on a constant currency basis which has been calculated by translating actual current and prior-period sales at the same predetermined exchange rate. The translated results are then used to determine year-over-year percentage increases or decreases that exclude the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates.
The second type of non-GAAP financial measure included in the press release consists of operating performance measures that have been adjusted to exclude certain items. The earnings release presents adjusted net earnings, adjusted diluted earnings per share ("EPS") and projected adjusted diluted EPS to exclude the effects of inventory step-up, the provision for certain Acetabular Component product claims, special items and certain tax adjustments. Included in special items are acquisition and integration costs as well as employee termination benefits, consulting and professional fees, certain litigation matters, dedicated personnel expenses, certain contract terminations and asset impairment charges connected with global restructuring and transformation initiatives.
Durom
Management uses this non-GAAP information internally to evaluate the performance of the business and believes that it provides useful information to investors by offering the ability to make more meaningful period-to-period comparisons of the Registrant's on-going operating results, the ability to better identify operating trends that may otherwise be masked or distorted by these types of items and to perform related trend analysis, and a higher degree of transparency of certain items. In addition, adjusted diluted EPS is used as a performance metric in the Registrant's incentive compensation programs.
All of the non-GAAP financial measures are reconciled to the most directly comparable GAAP financial measure in the press release.
The Registrant is furnishing the information contained in this report, including the Exhibit, pursuant to Item 2.02 of Form 8-K promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). This information shall not be deemed to be "filed" with the SEC or incorporated by reference into any other filing with the SEC. By filing this report on Form 8-K and furnishing this information, the Registrant makes no admission as to the materiality of any information in this report, including the Exhibit.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: October 25, 2012
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contacts:
 
 
 
 
(WARSAW, IN) October 25, 2012Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (NYSE and SIX: ZMH) today reported financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2012. The Company reported third quarter net sales of $1,026 million, a decrease of 0.6% reported and an increase of 2.5% constant currency over the third quarter of 2011. Diluted earnings per share for the quarter were $1.02 reported and $1.15 adjusted, an increase of 10.6% adjusted over the prior year period.
"Zimmer's third quarter performance was highlighted by strong operating margins, as well as above-market sales growth in our Europe, Middle East and Africa business," said David Dvorak, Zimmer President and CEO. "Our focus continues to be creating value for our stockholders. We will achieve that goal through the successful commercialization of innovative new products across the portfolio, ongoing progress in our operational excellence programs, and disciplined capital deployment."
Net earnings for the third quarter were $178.1 million on a reported basis and $202.1 million on an adjusted basis, an increase of 2.5% adjusted over the prior year period. Operating cash flow for the third quarter was $345.0 million.
 
During the quarter, the Company utilized $97.6 million of cash to acquire 1.56 million shares. As of September 30, 2012, $1,154.3 million of share repurchase authorization remained available under the current program, which expires on December 31, 2014.
At the conclusion of the third quarter, Zimmer finalized the acquisition of Dornoch Medical Systems, Inc. This acquisition enhances Zimmer's surgical products portfolio through the addition of medical waste fluid management and disposal technology.
Guidance
The Company updated its revenue and EPS guidance for full-year 2012. Full-year revenues for 2012 are expected to increase approximately 2% on a constant currency basis from 2011. Previously, the Company had estimated full-year revenues would increase between approximately 2.5% and 3.5% constant currency. The Company now estimates that foreign currency translation will decrease revenues by approximately 2% for the full year 2012, resulting in flat revenue growth on a reported basis. Previously, the Company had estimated foreign currency translation would decrease revenues between approximately 2.0% and 2.5%. Full-year 2012 diluted earnings per share are projected to be in a range of $4.75 to $4.80 on a reported basis and $5.25 to $5.30 on an adjusted basis. Prior guidance for full-year 2012 reported and adjusted diluted earnings per share was $4.75 to $4.85 and $5.25 to $5.35, respectively.
Conference Call
The Company will conduct its third quarter 2012 investor conference call today, October 25, 2012, at 8:00 a.m. Eastern Time. The live audio webcast can be accessed via Zimmer's Investor Relations website at . It will be archived for replay following the conference.
http://investor.zimmer.com
Individuals who wish to dial into the conference call may do so at (888) 878-3901. International callers should dial (706) 634-9520. A digital recording will be available two hours after the completion of the conference call from October 25, 2012 to
 
November 8, 2012. To access the recording, US/Canada callers should dial (855) 859-2056 or (800) 585-8367, or for International callers, dial (404) 537-3406, and enter the conference ID 39798003.
Sales Tables
The following tables provide sales results by geographic segment and product category, as well as the percentage change compared to the prior year quarter and nine months on both a reported and constant currency basis.
 
 
 
 
 
About the Company
Founded in 1927 and headquartered in Warsaw, Indiana, Zimmer designs, develops, manufactures and markets orthopaedic reconstructive, spinal and trauma devices, dental implants, and related surgical products. Zimmer has operations in more than 25 countries around the world and sells products in more than 100 countries. Zimmer's 2011 sales were approximately $4.5 billion. The Company is supported by the efforts of more than 8,500 employees worldwide.
Website Information
We routinely post important information for investors on our website, www.zimmer.com, in the "Investor Relations" section. We use this website as a means of disclosing material, non-public information and for complying with our disclosure obligations under Regulation FD. Accordingly, investors should monitor the Investor Relations section of our website, in addition to following our press releases, SEC filings, public conference calls, presentations and webcasts. The information contained on, or that may be accessed through, our website is not incorporated by reference into, and is not a part of, this document.
Note on Non-GAAP Financial Measures
As used in this press release, the term "" refers to operating performance measures that exclude inventory step-up, the provision for certain Acetabular Component product claims, special items and certain tax adjustments. Included in special items are acquisition and integration costs as well as employee termination benefits, consulting and professional fees, certain litigation matters, dedicated personnel expenses, certain contract terminations and asset impairment charges connected with global restructuring and transformation initiatives. The term "" refers to any financial measure that excludes the effect of changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Reconciliations of these non-GAAP measures to the most directly comparable GAAP measure are included in this press release.
adjusted
Durom
constant currency
Zimmer Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the orthopaedics industry, management's beliefs and assumptions made by management. Forward-looking statements may be
 
identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as "may," "will," "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "assumes," "guides," "targets," "forecasts," and "seeks" or the negative of such terms or other variations on such terms or comparable terminology. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the success of our quality and operational improvement initiatives; the outcome of the investigation by the U.S. government into Foreign Corrupt Practices Act matters announced in October 2007; price and product competition; changes in customer demand for our products and services caused by demographic changes or other factors; dependence on new product development, technological advances and innovation; shifts in the product category or regional sales mix of our products and services; supply and prices of raw materials and products; control of costs and expenses; our ability to obtain and maintain adequate intellectual property protection; our ability to successfully integrate acquired businesses; our ability to form and implement alliances; challenges relating to changes in and compliance with governmental laws and regulations affecting our U.S. and international businesses, including regulations of the U.S. Food and Drug Administration and foreign government regulators; changes in tax obligations arising from tax reform measures or examinations by tax authorities; product liability and intellectual property litigation losses; the impact of health care reform measures in the U.S. including the impact of the new excise tax on medical devices, reductions in reimbursement levels from third-party payors and cost-containment efforts of health care purchasing organizations; our ability to retain the independent agents and distributors who market our products; and changes in general industry and market conditions, including domestic and international growth rates and general domestic and international economic conditions, including interest rate and currency exchange rate fluctuations. For a further list and description of such risks and uncertainties, see our periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We disclaim any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be set forth in our periodic reports. Readers of this document are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, since, while we believe the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.
 
 
Certain amounts in the 2011 consolidated statement of earnings have been reclassified to conform to the 2012 presentation.
 
 
 
Certain amounts in the 2011 consolidated statement of earnings have been reclassified to conform to the 2012 presentation.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


