FILE:ZMH/ZMH-8K-20120717081617.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (General Instruction A.2. below):
see
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On July 16, 2012, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (the "Company"), upon the recommendation of the Corporate Governance Committee, elected Christopher B. Begley to the Board, with a term to expire at the Company's 2013 annual meeting of stockholders. The appointment of Mr. Begley fills a vacancy on the Board. In addition, the Board appointed Mr. Begley to the Audit Committee and the Research, Innovation and Technology Committee of the Board, effective July 16, 2012. There are no arrangements or understandings between Mr. Begley and any other persons pursuant to which Mr. Begley was appointed a director of the Company.
As a non-employee director, Mr. Begley will participate in the non-employee director compensation arrangements described in the Company's definitive proxy statement filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 23, 2012. In addition, it is expected that he will execute the Company's standard form of non-employee director indemnification agreement. The form of the indemnification agreement was filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 31, 2008 and is incorporated herein by reference.
A copy of the Company's press release announcing the appointment of Mr. Begley to the Board is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and the information set forth therein is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Dated: July 17, 2012
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Contacts:
 
July 16, 2012Zimmer Holdings, Inc. (NYSE and SIX: ZMH), a global leader in musculoskeletal care, today announced that Christopher B. Begley, former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Hospira, Inc., has been appointed to its Board of Directors.
(WARSAW, IN)
"With more than 25 years of experience managing and directing leading healthcare and life science companies, as well as extensive board representation in a variety of consumer-facing industries, Chris Begley brings a unique perspective to Zimmer's Board," said John L. McGoldrick, Chairman of the Board of Directors. "We are delighted Chris has agreed to join the Board and look forward to his contributions to Zimmer's strategic vision and direction."
Mr. Begley served as Executive Chairman of Hospira from May 2007 until January 2012 and as Hospira's Chief Executive Officer from April 2004, when Hospira was spun off from Abbott Laboratories, to March 2011. He served in various positions with Abbott between 1986 and 2004, most recently as Senior Vice President of Abbott's Hospital Products division. Mr. Begley serves as non-executive chairman of the board of Hillshire Brands Company and as a director of DeVry Inc. He previously served as a director of Sara Lee Corporation, the Advanced Medical Technology Association (AdvaMed) and the National Center for Healthcare Leadership (NCHL).
Mr. Begley earned a bachelor's degree from Western Illinois University and a master's degree in business administration from Northern Illinois University.
About the Company
Founded in 1927 and headquartered in Warsaw, Indiana, Zimmer designs, develops, manufactures and markets orthopaedic reconstructive, spinal and trauma devices, dental implants, and related surgical products. Zimmer has operations in more than 25 countries around the world and sells products in more than 100 countries. Zimmer's 2011 sales were approximately $4.5 billion. The Company is supported by the efforts of more than 8,500 employees worldwide.
Zimmer Safe Harbor Statement
This press release contains forward-looking statements within the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 based on current expectations, estimates, forecasts and projections about the orthopaedics industry, management's beliefs and assumptions made by management. Forward-looking statements may be identified by the use of forward-looking terms such as "may," "will," "expects," "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "estimates," "projects," "assumes," "guides," "targets," "forecasts," and "seeks" or the negative of such terms or other variations on such terms or comparable terminology. These statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions that could cause actual outcomes and results to differ materially. For a list and description of such risks and uncertainties, see our periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We disclaim any intention or obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as may be set forth in our periodic reports. Readers of this document are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements, since, while we believe the assumptions on which the forward-looking statements are based are reasonable, there can be no assurance that these forward-looking statements will prove to be accurate. This cautionary statement is applicable to all forward-looking statements contained in this document.


