ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Overview Tyson Foods is the worlds largest protein company and the second largest publicly traded food company in the Fortune 500 with one of the most recognized brand names in the food industry. Tyson produces, distributes and markets chicken, beef, pork and prepared foods and related allied products. The Companys primary operations are conducted in four segments: Chicken, Beef, Pork and Prepared Foods. Some of the key factors that influence the Companys business are customer demand for the Companys products, the ability to maintain and grow relationships with customers and introduce new and innovative products to the marketplace, accessibility of international markets, market prices for the Companys chicken, beef and pork products, the cost of live cattle and hogs, raw materials and grain and operating efficiencies of the Companys facilities. Earnings for fiscal 2005 were $372 million, or $1.04 per diluted share, compared to $403 million, or $1.13 per diluted share, in fiscal 2004. Pretax earnings for fiscal 2005 included $33 million of costs related to a legal settlement involving the Companys live swine operations, $14 million of costs for plant closings, $8 million of losses related to Hurricane Katrina, $12 million received in connection with vitamin antitrust litigation and a gain of $8 million from the sale of the Companys remaining interest in Specialty Brands, Inc. Additionally, earnings included a non recurring income tax net benefit of $15 million. The net benefit includes the reversal of tax reserves, partially offset by an income tax charge related to the repatriation of foreign income. The effective tax rate of the Company was further impacted by the federal income tax effect of the Medicare Part D subsidy in fiscal 2005 of $55 million since this amount is not subject to federal income tax. Combined, these items increased fiscal 2005 diluted earnings per share by $0.03. Pretax earnings for fiscal 2004 included $40 million of costs for plant closings, $61 million of BSE related charges and $46 million of fixed asset write downs and intangible asset impairments. Combined, these items decreased fiscal 2004 diluted earnings per share by $0.26. Operations for fiscal 2005 benefited from higher average sales prices in the Companys Chicken, Pork and Prepared Food segments, product mix improvements and decreased grain costs in the Companys Chicken segment. These benefits were partially offset by losses from the Companys commodity risk management activities related to grain purchases as compared to prior year gains from commodity risk management activities on grain positions. Operating income was also negatively impacted by higher energy costs, higher live hog prices in the Pork segment and higher raw material costs in the Prepared Foods segment. Additionally, earnings for fiscal 2005 were negatively impacted by the Companys Beef segment operating loss, primarily due to lower domestic cattle supplies and restrictions on imports of Canadian cattle for most of the year, which resulted in lower production volumes and raised the operating cost per head. Also, the Beef segments operating results were negatively impacted by limited access to export markets. In fiscal 2005, the Company continued to generate strong cash flow. This allowed the Company to pay down debt by $367 million, and exceed the Companys debt to capital ratio goal of 40% by reaching 39% at year end. The Company began construction of a third fully dedicated case ready plant in fiscal 2005. This plant is scheduled to begin operating in fiscal 2006, and once fully operational, it is expected to increase case ready capacity by one third. Additionally, in fiscal 2005, the Company continued construction of facilities at its Corporate Center, as well as a variety of other projects that will increase automation and support value added product growth. The Companys accounting cycle resulted in a 52 week year for fiscal years 2005 and 2003, and a 53 week year for fiscal 2004. Outlook As the Company begins fiscal 2006, its intent is to continue to focus on the three primary elements of the Companys strategy. The first element of the strategy is to continue to increase the sales mix of value added products. The Companys goal for fiscal 2006 is to increase its mix of value added product sales to $12 billion, an increase of approximately $900 million as compared to fiscal 2005. 22 TYSON FOODS, INC. The second element of the strategy is to continue to improve operating efficiencies. For fiscal 2006, the Company anticipates spending approximately $232 million on cost savings and income producing projects, which are expected to result in annual after tax savings of approximately $72 million. The third element of the strategy is to expand the Companys presence in international markets. The Companys goal for fiscal 2006 is to increase its in country presence in at least one foreign market. In fiscal 2006, the Company expects the Chicken segment results to remain solid. Currently, grain prices are expected to be favorable in fiscal 2006 as compared to fiscal 2005, and the Company anticipates good demand for chicken going into the start of fiscal 2006. The Company anticipates operating income will be negatively impacted in fiscal 2006 by higher energy costs. Although there have been recent developments in the beef export market that are encouraging, the Company believes the Beef segment will continue to face difficult operating conditions in fiscal 2006, especially in the first two quarters of the year. The Company anticipates the supply of live hogs to increase slightly in fiscal 2006, which should generate more normal returns in the Pork segment. Additionally, the Company anticipates improved market share in the Prepared Foods segment in fiscal 2006. 2005 vs. 2004 Certain reclassifications have been made to prior periods to conform to current presentations. Sales decreased $427 million or 1.6%, with a 0.7% increase in average sales price and a 2.3% decrease in volume. The decrease in sales was primarily due to reduced sales in the Companys Beef segment, resulting from the effects of import and export restrictions. Additionally, sales were negatively impacted by decreased sales volumes in each of the Companys protein segments, primarily due to one less week of sales in fiscal 2005. These declines were partially offset by higher average sales prices in the Companys Chicken, Pork and Prepared Foods segments. Cost of sales decreased $276 million or 1.1%. As a percent of sales, cost of sales increased from 92.8% to 93.3%. The decrease in cost of sales was primarily due to decreased grain costs of approximately $312 million in fiscal 2005 as compared to the same period last year, partially offset by higher live costs in the Pork segment, higher raw material costs in the Prepared Foods segment and higher energy costs. Additionally, the Chicken segment recorded losses of $27 million in fiscal 2005 resulting from the Companys commodity risk management activities related to grain purchases as compared to gains of $127 million in fiscal 2004. The fiscal 2004 gains were due in part to grain commodity risk management activities that were not designated as SFAS No. 133 hedges. Also, lower domestic cattle supplies and restrictions on imports of Canadian cattle for most of the year caused lower production volumes and higher operating cost per head. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $48 million or 5.5%. As a percent of sales, selling, general and administrative expenses increased from 3.3% to 3.6%. The increase was primarily due to an increase of approximately $28 million in corporate advertising expenses, which was primarily related to the Companys Powered by Tyson campaign. In addition, there were increases in personnel related costs and contributions and donations. Other charges included $33 million related to a legal settlement involving the Companys live swine operations and $14 million in plant closing costs, primarily related to the closings of the Companys Cleveland Street Forest, Mississippi, Portland, Maine, and Bentonville, Arkansas, operations. In July 2005, the Company announced it had agreed to settle a lawsuit which had resulted from the restructuring of its live swine operations. The settlement resulted in the Company recording an additional $33 million of costs in the third quarter of fiscal 2005. In July 2005, the Company announced its decision to make improvements to one of its Forest, Mississippi, facilities, which will include more product lines, enabling the plant to increase its production of processed and marinated chicken. When the project is complete, the Company will close the Cleveland Street Forest, Mississippi, poultry operation and transfer production and employees to the newly upgraded facilities. Also in July 2005, the Company announced its decision to close its Bentonville, Arkansas, facility. The production from this facility was transferred to the Companys Russellville, Arkansas, poultry plant, where an expansion enabled the facility to absorb the Bentonville facilitys production. In December 2004, the Company 23 TYSON FOODS, INC. announced its decision to close its Portland, Maine, facility. The plant ceased operations February 4, 2005, and the production from this facility was transferred to other locations. Other charges in fiscal 2004 included $40 million in plant closing costs, primarily related to the closings of the Companys Jackson, Mississippi, Manchester, New Hampshire, Augusta, Maine, and Berlin, Maryland, operations. Also included in other charges for fiscal 2004 were $25 million in charges related to intangible asset impairments and $21 million related to fixed asset write downs. Interest expense decreased $48 million or 17.5%, primarily resulting from an 8.7% decrease in the Companys average indebtedness. In addition, the Company incurred $13 million of expenses in fiscal 2004, related to the buy back of bonds at attractive prices and the early redemption of Tyson de Mexico preferred shares. Excluding these charges, the overall weighted average borrowing rate decreased from 7.4% to 7.1%. Other expense decreased $5 million as compared to fiscal 2004, primarily resulting from improvements in foreign exchange gain/loss activity of approximately $9 million, primarily from the Companys Canadian operations, and an $8 million gain recorded in fiscal 2005 from the sale of the Companys remaining interest in Specialty Brands, Inc. These items were partially offset by increased losses of $13 million from the disposal of fixed assets. The effective tax rate decreased from 36.6% in fiscal 2004 to 29.5% in fiscal 2005. The fiscal 2005 effective rate reflects a reduction of 4.1% due to the release of income tax reserves that management deemed were no longer required. The fiscal 2005 effective rate also reflects a reduction of 3.6% due to the federal income tax effect of the Medicare Part D subsidy in fiscal 2005 since this amount is not subject to federal income tax. In addition, the rate reflects an increase of 4.2% relating to the repatriation of earnings of foreign subsidiaries as allowed by the American Jobs Creation Act, offset by 2.9% relating to the reversal of certain international tax reserves that were no longer needed due to the effects of the repatriation under the American Jobs Creation Act. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company repatriated $404 million of foreign earnings invested outside the United States under the American Jobs Creation Act. See Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these issues. The estimated Extraterritorial Income Exclusion (ETI) amount reduced the fiscal 2005 effective tax rate by 2.6% compared to 0.5% in fiscal 2004. The increase in the fiscal 2005 estimated ETI benefit resulted from an increase in the estimated fiscal 2005 profit from export sales primarily due to increased profit on export sales, along with an adjustment to the estimated fiscal 2004 benefit. Segment Information Tyson operates in five business segments: Chicken, Beef, Pork, Prepared Foods and Other. The Company measures segment profit as operating income. Chicken segment is involved primarily in the processing of live chickens into fresh, frozen and value added chicken products. The Chicken segment markets its products domestically to food retailers, foodservice distributors, restaurant operators and noncommercial foodservice establishments such as schools, hotel chains, healthcare facilities, the military and other food processors, as well as to international markets throughout the world. The Chicken segment also includes sales from allied products and the chicken breeding stock subsidiary. Beef segment is involved primarily in the processing of live fed cattle and fabrication of dressed beef carcasses into primal and sub primal meat cuts and case ready products. It also involves deriving value from allied products such as hides and variety meats for sale to further processors and others. The Beef segment markets its products domestically to food retailers, foodservice distributors, restaurant operators and noncommercial foodservice establishments such as schools, hotel chains, healthcare facilities, the military and other food processors, as well as to international markets throughout the world. Allied products are also marketed to manufacturers of pharmaceuticals and technical products. Pork segment is involved primarily in the processing of live market hogs and fabrication of pork carcasses into primal and sub primal meat cuts and case ready products. This segment also represents the Companys live swine group and related allied product 24 TYSON FOODS, INC. processing activities. The Pork segment markets its products domestically to food retailers, foodservice distributors, restaurant operators and noncommercial foodservice establishments such as schools, hotel chains, healthcare facilities, the military and other food processors, as well as to international markets throughout the world. It also sells allied products to pharmaceutical and technical products manufacturers, as well as live swine to pork producers. Prepared Foods segment includes the Companys operations that manufacture and market frozen and refrigerated food products. Products include pepperoni, beef and pork pizza toppings, pizza crusts, flour and corn tortilla products, appetizers, prepared meals, ethnic foods, soups, sauces, side dishes and meat dishes, and processed meats. The Prepared Foods segment markets its products domestically to food retailers, foodservice distributors, restaurant operators and noncommercial foodservice establishments such as schools, hotel chains, healthcare facilities, the military and other food processors, as well as to international markets throughout the world. Other segment includes the logistics group and other corporate activities not identified with specific protein groups. Sales by Segment in millions Sales 2005 Sales 2004 Sales Change Volume Change Average Sales Price Change Chicken $ 8,295 $ 8,363 $ (68 ) (2.6 )% 1.8 % Beef 11,618 11,951 (333 ) (0.0 )% (2.8 )% Pork 3,247 3,185 62 (4.6 )% 6.9 % Prepared Foods 2,801 2,891 (90 ) (6.7 )% 3.8 % Other 53 51 2 N/A N/A Total $ 26,014 $ 26,441 $ (427 ) (2.3 )% 0.7 % Operating Income by Segment in millions Operating Income 2005 Operating Income 2004 Operating Income Change Operating Margin 2005 Operating Margin 2004 Chicken $ 582 $ 548 $ 34 7.0 % 6.6 % Beef (12 ) 127 (139 ) (0.1 )% 1.1 % Pork 47 140 (93 ) 1.4 % 4.4 % Prepared Foods 78 28 50 2.8 % 1.0 % Other 70 82 (12 ) N/A N/A Total $ 765 $ 925 $ (160 ) 2.9 % 3.5 % Chicken segment sales decreased 0.8% in fiscal 2005 as compared to the same period last year. The decline in sales was primarily due to lower volumes, caused largely by one less week of sales, partially offset by higher average sales prices and improved product mix. Chicken segment operating income increased $34 million in fiscal 2005, as compared to the same period last year. Excluding fiscal 2005 charges of $12 million related to plant closing accruals and $8 million of hurricane losses, and fiscal 2004 charges of $13 million related to fixed asset write downs and $13 million of plant closing related accruals, operating income increased $28 million. Fiscal 2005 operating income was positively impacted by decreased grain costs of $312 million. However, the current year benefits from decreased grain costs were partially offset by the effect of the Company realizing a loss of $27 million in fiscal 2005 as compared to a gain of $127 million in fiscal 2004 from the Companys commodity risk management activities. Additionally, fiscal 2005 operating income was negatively impacted by higher energy costs. 25 TYSON FOODS, INC. Beef segment sales decreased 2.8% in fiscal 2005 as compared to the same period last year. The decline in sales primarily resulted from the effects of import and export restrictions. Those restrictions contributed to lower international sales volumes and lower average domestic sales prices due in part to the mix of products allowed for export. Additionally, the current year had one less week of sales. Fiscal 2005 operating income decreased $215 million as compared to the prior year, excluding $10 million received in connection with vitamin antitrust litigation in fiscal 2005, prior year BSE related charges of $61 million and $5 million of charges related to intangible asset impairments and fixed asset write downs recorded in fiscal 2004. The decrease in operating income was primarily due to lower domestic cattle supplies and restrictions on imports of Canadian cattle for most of the year, which resulted in lower production volumes and raised the operating cost per head. Additionally, operating income was negatively impacted by decreased volumes and margins at the Companys Lakeside operation in Canada. Pork segment sales increased 1.9% in fiscal 2005 as compared to the same period last year. The increase in sales resulted primarily from higher average sales prices, both domestically and internationally, as compared to the same period last year. The higher average sales prices, driven primarily by higher average live hog prices, were partially offset by a decrease in volumes, caused largely by one less week of sales. Fiscal 2005 operating income decreased $63 million as compared to the prior year, excluding current year costs of $33 million related to a legal settlement involving the Companys live swine operations, $2 million received in fiscal 2005 in connection with vitamin antitrust litigation and $1 million of charges recorded in fiscal 2004 related to fixed asset write downs. The decrease in operating income was primarily due to higher average live hog prices and lower volumes, which increased the operating cost per head and more than offset the increase in average sales prices. Prepared Foods segment sales decreased 3.1% in fiscal 2005 as compared to the same period last year. The decline in sales was primarily due to lower volumes, caused largely by one less week of sales and the rationalization of lower margin product lines, partially offset by higher average sales prices. Fiscal 2005 operating income decreased $2 million as compared to the prior year, excluding plant closing related accruals of $2 million and $27 million recorded in fiscal years 2005 and 2004, respectively, and excluding $27 million of fixed asset write downs and intangible asset impairments recorded in fiscal 2004. The decrease in the Prepared Foods segments operating income was primarily due to increased raw material prices. 2004 vs. 2003 Certain reclassifications have been made to prior periods to conform to current presentations. Sales increased $1.9 billion or 7.7%, with a 9.4% increase in average sales price and a 1.5% decrease in volume. The increase in sales primarily was due to higher average selling prices. Volumes declined due to a reduction in international export activity related to the Chicken and Beef segments resulting from import restrictions imposed by various countries. Additionally, the Companys Beef segment domestic volumes decreased due to tightened supply of live cattle, the effects of higher beef pricing and significant competing protein supplies in the marketplace. Cost of sales increased $1.7 billion or 7.7%. As a percent of sales, cost of sales decreased from 92.9% to 92.8%. The increase in cost of sales primarily was due to increases in grain costs in the Chicken segment, which were partially offset by gains resulting from the Companys commodity risk management activities related to grain purchases, and in the Beef segment, higher live cattle prices and BSE related charges. Also included in fiscal 2004 cost of sales was $18 million to reduce self insurance reserves to the actuarially determined range. The reserves are compared to actuarial estimates quarterly. Fiscal 2003 had a $6 million reduction in self insurance reserves. Additionally, fiscal 2003 cost of sales included $167 million received in connection with vitamin antitrust litigation. 26 TYSON FOODS, INC. Selling, general and administrative expenses increased $49 million or 5.9%. As a percent of sales, selling, general and administrative expenses decreased from 3.4% to 3.3%. The increase in expenses primarily was due to an increase in personnel and incentive based compensation of approximately $40 million, an increase of approximately $20 million related to information system technology improvements, an increase of approximately $21 million in employee benefit costs, primarily due to fiscal 2003 actuarial gains of $13 million related to certain retiree medical benefit plans and fiscal 2004 increases in healthcare related costs. The increases were partially offset by a reduction in auditing, legal and professional fees of approximately $27 million, which included $12 million received in fiscal 2004 related to legal settlements from the Companys insurance providers. Other charges included plant closing costs of $40 million and $76 million recorded in fiscal years 2004 and 2003, respectively. Fiscal 2004 costs primarily were related to the closings of the Companys Jackson, Mississippi, Manchester, New Hampshire, Augusta, Maine, and Berlin, Maryland, facilities. As part of its on going plant rationalization efforts, the Company announced in February 2004 its decision to consolidate its manufacturing operations in Jackson, Mississippi, into the Companys Carthage, Mississippi, facility. The Company acquired the Carthage facility when it purchased Choctaw Maid Farms in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2003. In December 2003, the Company announced its decision to close its Manchester, New Hampshire, and Augusta, Maine, Prepared Foods operations to further improve long term manufacturing efficiencies. After thorough analysis, the Company determined the amount of capital required to bring the Manchester and Augusta facilities to a competitive level and to maintain appropriate food safety standards, would be better spent to accommodate production in newer more modern facilities. The majority of the Manchester and Augusta production was consolidated into other Company facilities. Fiscal 2003 costs were related to the closings of the Companys Berlin, Maryland, Stilwell, Oklahoma, and Jacksonville, Florida, facilities. Also included in other charges for fiscal 2004 were $25 million in charges related to the impairment of various intangible assets and $21 million related to fixed asset write downs. The impairment charges apply primarily to trademarks acquired in the acquisition of Tyson Fresh Meats, Inc. (TFM) in 2001. These impairment charges primarily resulted from lower product sales under some of the Companys regional trademarks as products are increasingly being sold under the Tyson trademark. The fair value of the Companys trademarks is determined using a royalty rate method based on expected revenues by trademark. The trademarks, as well as all other intangible assets, are reviewed at least annually for impairment. The fixed asset write downs were the result of the Company implementing a control whereby all plant facilities conduct fixed asset inventories on a recurring basis. Interest expense decreased $21 million or 7.1%, primarily resulting from an 8.2% decrease in the Companys average indebtedness. The Company incurred $13 million of expenses in each fiscal year of 2004 and 2003, related to the buy back of bonds at attractive prices when available in the market and to the early redemption of Tyson de Mexico preferred shares. The overall weighted average borrowing rate increased to 7.7% from 7.4%, primarily due to the fiscal 2004 reduction of short term debt, which carried lower interest rates. Other expense decreased $3 million as compared to fiscal 2003, primarily resulting from the $10 million write down related to the impairment of an equity interest in a live swine operation recorded in fiscal 2003. This decrease was partially offset by increased foreign exchange losses of approximately $9 million from the Companys Canadian operation in fiscal 2004. The effective tax rate increased from 35.5% in fiscal 2003 to 36.6% in fiscal 2004. The estimated ETI amount reduced the fiscal 2004 effective tax rate by 0.5%, compared to 1.9% in fiscal 2003. The decrease in the fiscal 2004 estimated ETI benefit resulted from a reduction in the estimated fiscal 2004 profit from export sales primarily due to the effects of BSE and avian influenza, along with an adjustment to the estimated fiscal 2003 benefit. The fiscal 2004 estimated rate also increased due to the expiration of certain general business credits. 27 TYSON FOODS, INC. Sales by Segment in millions Sales 2004 Sales 2003 Sales Change Volume Change Average Sales Price Change Chicken $ 8,363 $ 7,389 $ 974 3.5 % 9.4 % Beef 11,951 11,935 16 (9.8 )% 11.0 % Pork 3,185 2,470 715 7.3 % 20.2 % Prepared Foods 2,891 2,700 191 0.3 % 6.8 % Other 51 55 (4 ) N/A N/A Total $ 26,441 $ 24,549 $ 1,892 (1.5 )% 9.4 % Operating Income by Segment in millions Operating Income 2004 Operating Income 2003 Operating Income Change Operating Margin 2004 Operating Margin 2003 Chicken $ 548 $ 156 $ 392 6.6 % 2.1 % Beef 127 320 (193 ) 1.1 % 2.7 % Pork 140 75 65 4.4 % 3.0 % Prepared Foods 28 59 (31 ) 1.0 % 2.2 % Other 82 227 (145 ) N/A N/A Total $ 925 $ 837 $ 88 3.5 % 3.4 % Chicken segment sales increased 13.2% in fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003. Excluding plant closing related accruals of $13 million and $76 million recorded in fiscal years 2004 and 2003, respectively, and fixed asset write downs of $13 million recorded in fiscal 2004, operating income increased $342 million. Sales and operating income increased primarily due to increased average sales prices and sales volumes, as well as improvements in product mix and operating efficiencies. Operating income was negatively impacted by approximately $239 million of increased grain costs, partially offset by a benefit of approximately $127 million from the Companys commodity risk management activities related to grain purchases. The increase in the Companys domestic Chicken segment sales volumes in fiscal 2004 were partially offset by decreased international sales volumes due to import restrictions by various countries caused by the avian influenza outbreaks in the United States. Beef segment sales increased 0.1% in fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003. Operating income for fiscal 2004 included BSE related charges of $61 million and $5 million of charges related to intangible asset impairments and fixed asset write downs. Additionally, operating income was negatively impacted by increases in live cattle prices, production declines and decreased capacity utilization. These decreases were partially offset by higher average selling prices and increased volumes and margins at the Companys Lakeside operation in Canada. Pork segment sales increased 28.9% in fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003. The increase in the Pork segments operating income primarily was due to higher average sales prices and increased demand, as pork benefited from stronger domestic and international markets, more than offsetting increases in average live hog prices. Operating income was negatively impacted by approximately $1 million related to fixed asset write downs recorded in fiscal 2004. 28 TYSON FOODS, INC. Prepared Foods segment sales increased 7.1% in fiscal 2004 as compared to fiscal 2003. Fiscal 2004 operating income increased $23 million, excluding plant closing costs of approximately $27 million, intangible asset impairments of $22 million and fixed asset write downs of $5 million, all of which were recorded in fiscal 2004. The increase in the Prepared Foods segments operating income primarily was due to higher average sales prices and increased volumes, partially offset by increased raw material prices. Other segment operating income decreased $145 million primarily due to settlements of $167 million received in fiscal 2003 in connection with vitamin antitrust litigation. Additionally in fiscal 2003, operating income was affected positively by actuarial gains of $13 million resulting from certain retiree medical benefit plans. ACQUISITION In September 2003, the Company purchased Choctaw Maid Farms, Inc. (Choctaw), an integrated poultry processor. Since 1992, Tyson had been purchasing all of Choctaws production under a cost plus supply agreement, which was scheduled to expire in 2007. The Company previously had negotiated a purchase option with Choctaws owners, which initially became exercisable in 2002. The Company decided to exercise its purchase option rather than continue under the cost plus arrangement of the supply agreement. The acquisition was recorded as a purchase in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 141, Business Combinations (SFAS No. 141). Accordingly, the assets and liabilities were adjusted for fair values with the remainder of the purchase price, $18 million, recorded as goodwill. The purchase price consisted of $1 million cash to exercise the purchase option in Tysons supply agreement with Choctaw and the settlement of $85 million owed to Tyson by Choctaw. In addition, the Company assumed approximately $4 million of Choctaws debt to a third party. In June 2003, the Company exercised a $74 million purchase option to acquire assets leased from a third party which the Company had subleased to Choctaw. Pro forma operating results reflecting the acquisition of Choctaw would not be materially different from the Companys actual results of operations. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Cash provided by operations continues to be the Companys primary source of funds to finance operating requirements and capital expenditures. In fiscal 2005, net cash of $999 million was provided by operating activities, up $67 million from fiscal 2004. The increase is primarily due to cash from working capital items of $186 million in fiscal 2005, as compared to cash used by working capital items of $47 million in fiscal 2004, partially offset by a $132 million decrease in net income, excluding the non cash effect of deferred income taxes, as compared to the prior year. The positive working capital for fiscal 2005 is primarily due to an increase in income taxes payable resulting primarily from timing of payments of federal and state estimated payments and improvements in the cash cycle around accounts receivable, accounts payable and inventory. The Company used cash, primarily from operations, to reduce debt by $367 million, to fund $571 million of property, plant and equipment additions, to pay dividends of $55 million and to repurchase $45 million of the Companys Class A common stock in the open market. The Companys foreseeable cash needs for operations growth and capital expenditures are expected to continue to be met through cash flows provided by operating activities. Additionally, at October 1, 2005, the Company had borrowing capacity of $1.5 billion consisting of $746 million available under its $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility and $750 million under its accounts receivable securitization. At October 1, 2005, the Company had construction projects in progress that will require approximately $521 million to complete. Capital spending for fiscal 2006 is expected to be in the range of $600 million to $650 million. Cash Provided by Operating Activities in millions 2005 2004 2003 $ 999 $ 932 $ 820 29 TYSON FOODS, INC. Total debt at October 1, 2005, was $3.0 billion, a decrease of $367 million from October 2, 2004. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company restructured its revolving credit facilities into one facility, which now consists of a $1.0 billion unsecured revolving credit facility that expires in September 2010. This facility supports the Companys commercial paper program, letters of credit and other short term funding needs. At October 1, 2005, there were no borrowings outstanding under this facility. Outstanding debt at October 1, 2005, consisted of $2.5 billion of senior notes and notes, a $345 million term loan and other indebtedness of $121 million. Total Capitalization in millions (Restated) 2005 2004 2003 Debt $ 2,995 $ 3,362 $ 3,604 Equity 4,671 4,292 3,954 The revolving credit facility, senior notes, notes and accounts receivable securitization contain various covenants, the more restrictive of which contain a maximum allowed leverage ratio and a minimum required interest coverage ratio. The Company was in compliance with all of such covenants at fiscal year end. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS The Company does not have any off balance sheet arrangements that are material to its financial position or results of operations. The off balance sheet arrangements the Company has are guarantees of debt of outside third parties involving a lease, grower loans and residual value guarantees covering certain operating leases for various types of equipment. See Note 9, Commitments of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussions of these guarantees. CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS The following table summarizes the Companys contractual obligations as of October 1, 2005: in millions Payments Due by Period Less Than One to Three to More Than One Year Three Years Five Years Five Years Total Debt and capital lease obligations: Principal payments (1) $ 126 $ 912 $ 595 $ 1,362 $ 2,995 Interest payments (2) 128 290 283 340 1,041 Guarantees (3) 7 18 21 41 87 Operating lease obligations (4) 82 78 21 6 187 Purchase obligations (5) 313 17 4 4 338 Capital expenditures (6) 457 54 10 521 Other long term liabilities (7) 4 8 7 47 66 Total contractual commitments $ 1,117 $ 1,377 $ 941 $ 1,800 $ 5,235 30 TYSON FOODS, INC. (1) In the event of a default on payment or violation of debt covenants, acceleration of the principal payments could occur. At October 1, 2005, the Company was in compliance with all of its debt covenants. (2) Interest payments include only interest payments on fixed rate and fixed term debt, based on the expected payment dates. The Company has other interest obligations on variable rate, non term debt; however, these obligations have been excluded, as the timing of payments and expected interest rates cannot be reasonably estimated. (3) Amounts included are for the guarantees of debt of outside third parties, which involve a lease and grower loans, all of which are substantially collateralized by the underlying assets. The amounts included are the maximum potential amount of future payments. (4) Amounts included in operating lease obligations are minimum lease payments under lease agreements, as well as residual value guarantee amounts. (5) Amounts included in purchase obligations are agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding on the Company that specifies all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. The purchase obligations amount includes items, such as future purchase commitments for corn, soybeans, livestock and natural gas contracts that provide terms that meet the above criteria. The Company has excluded future purchase commitments for contracts that do not meet these criteria. Purchase orders have not been included in the table, as a purchase order is an authorization to purchase and is not considered an enforceable and legally binding contract. Contracts for goods or services that contain termination clauses without penalty have also been excluded. (6) Amounts included in capital expenditures are estimated amounts to complete construction projects in progress as of October 1, 2005. (7) Amounts included in other long term liabilities are items that meet the definition of a purchase obligation and are recorded in the Companys Consolidated Balance Sheets. RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS In March 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Interpretation No. 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations, an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143 (the Interpretation). Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 143, Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations (SFAS No. 143), was issued in June 2001 and requires an entity to recognize the fair value of a liability for an asset retirement obligation in the period in which it is incurred if a reasonable estimate of fair value can be made. SFAS No. 143 applies to legal obligations associated with the retirement of a tangible long lived asset that resulted from the acquisition, construction, development and (or) the normal operation of a long lived asset. The associated asset costs are capitalized as part of the carrying amount of the long lived asset. The Interpretation clarifies that the term conditional asset retirement obligation as used in SFAS No. 143, refers to a legal obligation to perform an asset retirement activity in which the timing and (or) method of settlement are conditional on a future event that may or may not be within the control of the entity. The Interpretation requires an entity to recognize a liability for the fair value of a conditional asset retirement obligation if the fair value of the liability can be reasonably estimated. Uncertainty about the timing and (or) method of settlement of a conditional asset retirement obligation should be factored into the measurement of the liability when sufficient information exists. SFAS No. 143 acknowledges that in some cases, sufficient information may not be available to reasonably estimate the fair value of an asset retirement obligation. The Interpretation is effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2005. The Company is currently in the process of evaluating any potential effects of the Interpretation but does not believe its adoption will have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. In December 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123R, Share Based Payment (SFAS No. 123R), which is a revision of FASB Statement No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation (SFAS No. 123). SFAS No. 123R supersedes Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees, and amends FASB Statement No. 95, Statement of Cash Flows. The revision requires companies to measure and recognize compensation expense for all share based payments to employees, including grants of employee stock options, in the financial statements based on 31 TYSON FOODS, INC. the fair value at the date of the grant. SFAS No. 123R permits companies to adopt its requirements using either the modified prospective method or the modified retrospective method. Under the modified prospective method, compensation cost is recognized beginning with the effective date for all share based payments granted after the effective date and for all awards granted to employees prior to the effective date of SFAS No. 123R that remain unvested on the effective date. The modified retrospective method includes the requirements of the modified prospective method, but also permits entities to restate either all prior periods presented or prior interim periods of the year of adoption for the impact of adopting this standard. The Company will apply the modified prospective method upon adoption. In April 2005, the Securities and Exchange Commission announced it would provide for phased in implementation of SFAS No. 123R. As a result, SFAS No. 123R is effective for the first interim or annual reporting period of the registrants first fiscal year beginning on or after June 15, 2005. The Company estimates that compensation expense related to employee stock options for fiscal 2006 is expected to be in the range of $10 $15 million. SFAS No. 123R also requires the benefits of tax deductions in excess of recognized compensation costs to be reported as financing cash flow, rather than as an operating cash flow as required under current literature. This requirement will reduce net operating cash flows and increase net financing cash flows in periods after adoption. The Company believes this reclass will not have a material impact on its Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. In December 2004, the FASB issued Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 151, "Inventory Costs" (SFAS No. 151). SFAS No. 151 requires abnormal amounts of inventory costs related to idle facility, freight handling and wasted material expenses to be recognized as current period charges. Additionally, SFAS No. 151 requires that allocation of fixed production overheads to the costs of conversion be based on the normal capacity of the production facilities. The standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2005. The Company believes the adoption of SFAS No. 151 will not have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. In October 2004, the President signed into law the American Jobs Creation Act (the AJC Act). The AJC Act provides for the elimination of the ETI and allows for a federal income tax deduction for a percentage of income earned from certain domestic production activities. The Companys domestic, or U.S., production activities will qualify for the deduction. Based on the effective date of this provision of the AJC Act, the Company will be eligible for this deduction beginning in fiscal 2006. This provision will be phased in from fiscal 2006 through fiscal 2011 and provides for a deduction of between 3% and 9% of qualifying domestic production income over that period. Additionally, on December 21, 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position 109 1, Application of FASB Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes (SFAS No. 109), to the Tax Deduction on Qualified Production Activities Provided by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (FSP 109 1). FSP 109 1, which was effective upon issuance, states the deduction under this provision of the AJC Act should be accounted for as a special deduction in accordance with SFAS No. 109. The Company has not yet quantified the impact that will be realized from these provisions of the AJC Act. The AJC Act also allows for an 85% dividends received deduction on the repatriation of certain earnings of foreign subsidiaries. On December 21, 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position 109 2, Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earnings Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (FSP 109 2). FSP 109 2, which was effective upon issuance, allows companies time beyond the financial reporting period of enactment to evaluate the effect of the AJC Act on its plan for reinvestment or repatriation of foreign earnings for purposes of applying SFAS No. 109. Additionally, FSP 109 2 provides guidance regarding the required disclosures surrounding a companys reinvestment or repatriation of foreign earnings. Additionally, the Internal Revenue Service issued three notices relating to the repatriation, which clarify the provisions of the Act. The latest in the series of notices was IRS Notice 2005 64, which was issued during the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005. During fiscal 2005, the Company repatriated foreign earnings using the provision of the act as discussed in Note 17, Income Taxes of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 32 TYSON FOODS, INC. In December 2003, the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003 (the Act) was signed. The Act allows a possible subsidy to retirement health plan sponsors to help offset the costs of participant prescription drug benefits. In March 2004, the FASB issued Staff Position No. 106 2, Accounting and Disclosure Requirements Related to the Act (the Position). The Position was effective for interim or annual periods beginning after June 15, 2004. The Position allowed plan sponsors to recognize or defer recognizing the effects of the Act in its financial statements until specific accounting guidance for this federal subsidy was issued. In the fourth quarter of fiscal 2005, the Company concluded the prescription drug benefits included in its postretirement medical plan is actuarially equivalent to Medicare Part D under the Act. In accordance with FASB Staff Position 106 2, the Company decreased its accumulated postretirement obligation and recognized an actuarial gain of approximately $55 million related to the present value of all future subsidies expected to be received. This gain was more than offset by actuarial losses primarily related to increased claims costs, resulting in a net actuarial loss of approximately $9 million from the Companys postretirement health plan. Under the Act, the subsidy is not subject to federal income tax expense, resulting in a reduction in the Companys effective tax rate by 3.6%, or approximately $19 million. It is the Companys policy to fully recognize experience gains and losses of its postretirement plans in the year in which they occur. There was no effect on service or interest cost in the current period. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES The preparation of consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The following is a summary of certain accounting estimates considered critical by the Company. Financial instruments: The Company is a purchaser of certain commodities, such as corn, soybeans, livestock and natural gas in the course of normal operations. The Company uses derivative financial instruments to reduce its exposure to various market risks. Generally, contract terms of a hedge instrument closely mirror those of the hedged item, providing a high degree of risk reduction and correlation. Contracts that are designated and highly effective at meeting the risk reduction and correlation criteria are recorded using hedge accounting, as defined by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (SFAS No. 133), as amended. If a derivative instrument is a hedge, as defined by SFAS No. 133, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of the instrument will be either offset against the change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. The ineffective portion of an instruments change in fair value will be immediately recognized in earnings as a component of cost of sales. Instruments the Company holds as part of its risk management activities that do not meet the criteria for hedge accounting, as defined by SFAS No. 133, as amended, are marked to fair value with unrealized gains or losses reported currently in earnings. The Company generally does not hedge anticipated transactions beyond 12 months. Contingent liabilities: The Company is subject to lawsuits, investigations and other claims related to wage and hour/labor, livestock procurement, securities, environmental, product, taxing authorities and other matters, and is required to assess the likelihood of any adverse judgments or outcomes to these matters, as well as potential ranges of probable losses. A determination of the amount of reserves and disclosures required, if any, for these contingencies are made after considerable analysis of each individual issue. These reserves may change in the future due to changes in the Companys assumptions, the effectiveness of strategies or other factors beyond the Companys control. Accrued self insurance: Insurance expense for health and welfare, workers compensation, auto liability and general liability risks are estimated using historical experience and actuarial estimates. The assumptions used to arrive at periodic expenses are reviewed regularly by management. However, actual expenses could differ from these estimates, which could result in adjustments to amounts recorded. 33 TYSON FOODS, INC. Impairment of long lived assets: The Company is required to assess potential impairments to its long lived assets, which are primarily property, plant and equipment. If impairment indicators are present, the Company must measure the fair value of the assets in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment of Disposal of Long Lived Assets, to determine if adjustments are to be recorded. Goodwill and other intangible asset impairment: In assessing the recoverability of the Companys goodwill and other intangible assets, management must make assumptions regarding estimated future cash flows and other factors to determine the fair value of the respective assets. If these estimates and related assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to record impairment charges not previously recorded. The Company assesses its goodwill and other intangible assets for impairment at least annually in accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets. Marketing and advertising costs: The Company incurs advertising, retailer incentive and consumer incentive costs to promote its products through its marketing programs. These programs include cooperative advertising, volume discounts, in store display incentives, coupons and other programs. The recognition of the costs related to these programs requires management judgment in estimating the potential performance and redemption of each program. These estimates are based on many factors, including historical experience of similar promotional programs. Actual expenses may differ if the performance and redemption rates vary from the estimated rates. Income taxes: The Company estimates its total income tax expense based on statutory tax rates and tax planning opportunities available to the Company in various jurisdictions in which the Company earns income. Federal income taxes include an estimate for taxes on earnings of foreign subsidiaries that are expected to be remitted to the United States and be taxable, but not for earnings that are considered permanently invested in the foreign subsidiary. Deferred income taxes are recognized for the future tax effects of temporary differences between financial and income tax reporting using tax rates in effect for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. Valuation allowances are recorded when it is more likely than not that a tax benefit will not be realized for a deferred tax asset. NON GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES This report and other public communications issued by the Company from time to time include certain non GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) financial measures, which are defined as numerical measures of a companys financial performance, financial position or cash flows that exclude (or include) amounts that are included in (or excluded from) the most directly comparable measures calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP in the Companys financial statements. Non GAAP financial measures utilized by the Company include presentations of operating income and other GAAP measures of operating performance that exclude or include the effect of the closings of selected operations, BSE related charges, dispositions of assets or investments, fixed asset write downs, impairment charges related to various intangible assets, litigation settlements, natural disaster related charges, non recurring income tax adjustments and other similar events. The Companys management believes these non GAAP financial measures provide useful information to investors by removing the effect of variances in GAAP reported results of operations that are not indicative of fundamental changes in the Companys earnings. Management also believes the presentation of these non GAAP financial measures is consistent with its past practice, as well as industry practice in general, and will enable investors and analysts to compare current non GAAP measures with non GAAP measures presented in prior periods. The non GAAP financial measures used by the Company should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for measures of performance prepared in accordance with GAAP. 34 TYSON FOODS, INC. ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISKS MARKET RISKS Market risks relating to the Companys operations result primarily from changes in commodity prices, interest rates and foreign exchange rates, as well as credit risk concentrations. To address certain of these risks, the Company enters into various derivative transactions as described below. If a derivative instrument is a hedge, as defined by SFAS No. 133, as amended, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair value of the instrument will be either offset against the change in fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings, or recognized in other comprehensive income (loss) until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. The ineffective portion of an instruments change in fair value, as defined by SFAS No. 133, as amended, will be immediately recognized in earnings as a component of cost of sales. Additionally, the Company holds certain positions, primarily in grain and livestock futures, which do not meet the criteria for SFAS No. 133 hedge accounting. These positions are marked to fair value and the unrealized gains and losses are reported in earnings at each reporting date. The changes in market value of derivatives used in the Companys risk management activities surrounding inventories on hand or anticipated purchases of inventories are recorded in cost of sales. The changes in market value of derivatives used in the Companys risk management activities surrounding forward sales contracts are recorded in sales. The sensitivity analyses presented below are the measures of potential losses of fair value resulting from hypothetical changes in market prices related to commodities. Sensitivity analyses do not consider the actions management may take to mitigate the Companys exposure to changes, nor do they consider the effects that such hypothetical adverse changes may have on overall economic activity. Actual changes in market prices may differ from hypothetical changes. Commodities Risk: The Company is a purchaser of certain commodities, such as corn, soybeans, livestock and natural gas in the course of normal operations. The Company uses commodity futures to reduce the effect of changing prices and as a mechanism to procure the underlying commodity. However, as the commodities underlying the Companys derivative financial instruments can experience significant price fluctuations, any requirement to mark to market the positions that have not been designated or do not qualify as hedges under SFAS No. 133 could result in volatility in the Companys results of operations. Generally, contract terms of a hedge instrument closely mirror those of the hedged item providing a high degree of risk reduction and correlation. Contracts that are designated and highly effective at meeting this risk reduction and correlation criteria are recorded using hedge accounting. The following table presents a sensitivity analysis resulting from a hypothetical change of 10% in market prices as of October 1, 2005, and October 2, 2004, respectively, on fair value of open positions. The fair value of such positions is a summation of the fair values calculated for each commodity by valuing each net position at quoted futures prices. The market risk exposure analysis includes hedge and non hedge positions. The underlying commodities hedged have a correlation to price changes of the derivative positions such that the values of the commodities hedged based on differences between commitment prices and market prices and the value of the derivative positions used to hedge these commodity obligations are inversely correlated. The following sensitivity analysis reflects the impact on earnings for changes in the fair value of open positions. 35 TYSON FOODS, INC. Effect of 10% change in fair value in millions 2005 2004 Livestock: Cattle $ 3 $ 12 Hogs 13 18 Grain 15 5 Natural Gas 12 13 Interest Rate Risk: The Company has exposure to changes in interest rates on its fixed rate, long term debt. Market risk for fixed rate, long term debt is estimated as the potential increase in fair value, resulting from a hypothetical 10% decrease in interest rates, and amounts to approximately $47 million at October 1, 2005, and $51 million at October 2, 2004. The fair values of the Companys long term debt were estimated based upon quoted market prices and or published interest rates. The Company hedges exposure to changes in interest rates on certain of its financial instruments. Under the terms of various leveraged equipment loans, the Company enters into interest rate swap agreements to effectively lock in a fixed interest rate for these borrowings. The maturity dates of these leveraged equipment loans range from fiscal years 2006 to 2009 with interest rates ranging from 4.7% to 6.0%. Because of the positions taken with respect to these swap agreements, an increase in interest rates would have a minimal effect on the fair value for fiscal years 2005 and 2004. Foreign Currency Risk: The Company has non cash foreign exchange gain/loss exposure from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates as a result of certain receivables and payable balances. The primary currency exchanges the Company has exposure to are the Canadian dollar, the Mexican peso, the European euro, the British pound sterling and the Brazilian real. The Company periodically enters into foreign exchange forward contracts to hedge some of its foreign currency exposure. There were no significant contracts outstanding at October 1, 2005, and October 2, 2004. Concentrations of Credit Risk: The Companys financial instruments that are exposed to concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash equivalents and trade receivables. The Companys cash equivalents are in high quality securities placed with major banks and financial institutions. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to receivables are limited due to the large number of customers and their dispersion across geographic areas. The Company performs periodic credit evaluations of its customers financial condition and generally does not require collateral. At October 1, 2005, and October 2, 2004, approximately 13.0% and 15.0%, respectively, of the Companys net accounts receivable balance was due from one customer. No other single customer or customer group represents greater than 10% of net accounts receivable. 36 TYSON FOODS, INC. 
 
