Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes which appear elsewhere in this report. It contains forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Please see Forward Looking Statements and Risk Factors for more information. Our actual results could differ materially from those anticipated in these forward looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed below and elsewhere in this report, particularly under the headings Item 1A Risk Factors and Forward Looking Statements. General On April 1, 2006, the Company separated its Assurant Solutions segment into two segments: Assurant Solutions and Assurant Specialty Property. In addition, concurrent with the creation of the new Assurant Solutions and Assurant Specialty Property segments, the Company realigned the Preneed segment under the new Assurant Solutions segment. We report our results through five segments: Assurant Solutions, Assurant Specialty Property, Assurant Health, Assurant Employee Benefits, and Corporate and Other. The Corporate and Other segment includes activities of the holding company, financing expenses, net realized gains (losses) on investments, interest income earned from short term investments held, interest income from excess surplus of insurance subsidiaries not allocated to other segments, run off Asbestos business, and additional costs associated with excess of loss reinsurance and ceded to certain subsidiaries in the London market between 1995 and 1997. The Corporate and Other segment also includes the amortization of deferred gains associated with the portions of the sales of FFG and LTC. FFG and LTC were sold through reinsurance agreements as described below. Critical Factors Affecting Results Our results depend on the adequacy of our product pricing, underwriting and the accuracy of our methodology for the establishment of reserves for future policyholder benefits and claims, returns on invested assets and our ability to manage our expenses. Therefore, factors affecting these items may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. For a listing of those factors see Item 1A Risk Factors. 47 Table of Contents Revenues We generate our revenues primarily from the sale of our insurance policies and, to a lesser extent, fee income by providing administrative services to certain clients. Sales of insurance policies are recognized in revenue as earned premiums while sales of administrative services are recognized as fee income. In late 2000, the majority of Assurant Solutions domestic credit insurance clients began a transition from the purchase of our credit insurance products, from which we earned premium revenue, to debt protection administration programs, from which we earn fee income. Debt protection administration programs include services for non insurance products that cancel or defer the required monthly payment on outstanding loans when covered events occur. Effective January 1, 2009, new preneed life insurance policies in which death benefit increases are determined at the discretion of the Company will be accounted for as universal life contracts under FAS 97. For contracts sold prior to January 1, 2009, these types of preneed life insurance sales were accounted for and will continue to be accounted for under FAS 60. The difference between reporting in accordance with FAS 60 and FAS 97 is not material. In addition, this change will not materially impact our results of operations in the future, but will result in us recording policy fee income instead of net earned premiums and incurred losses. Our premium and fee income is supplemented by income earned from our investment portfolio. We recognize revenue from interest payments, dividends and sales of investments. Currently, our investment portfolio is primarily invested in fixed maturity securities. Both investment income and realized capital gains on these investments can be significantly impacted by changes in interest rates. Interest rate volatility can increase or reduce unrealized gains or unrealized losses in our portfolios. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Fluctuations in interest rates affect our returns on, and the market value of, fixed maturity and short term investments. The fair market value of the fixed maturity securities in our portfolio and the investment income from these securities fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. The fair market value generally increases or decreases in an inverse relationship with fluctuations in interest rates, while net investment income realized by us from future investments in fixed maturity securities will generally increase or decrease with interest rates. We also have investments that carry pre payment risk, such as mortgage backed and asset backed securities. Actual net investment income and or cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk may differ from estimates at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. In periods of declining interest rates, mortgage prepayments generally increase and mortgage backed securities, commercial mortgage obligations and bonds are more likely to be prepaid or redeemed as borrowers seek to borrow at lower interest rates. Therefore, we may be required to reinvest those funds in lower interest bearing investments. Expenses Our expenses are primarily policyholder benefits, selling, underwriting and general expenses and interest expense. Our profitability depends in part on accurately predicting policyholder benefits, claims and other costs. It also depends on our ability to manage future policyholder benefits and other costs through product design, underwriting criteria, utilization review or claims management catastrophe reinsurance coverage and, in health and dental insurance, negotiation of favorable provider contracts. Changes in the composition of the kinds of work available in the economy, market conditions and numerous other factors may also materially adversely affect our ability to manage claim costs. As a result of one or more of these factors or other factors, claims could substantially exceed our expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 48 Table of Contents Selling, underwriting and general expenses consist primarily of commissions, premium taxes, licenses, fees, amortization of deferred acquisition costs (DAC) and value of business acquired (VOBA) and general operating expenses. For a description of DAC and VOBA, see Notes 2, 9 and 11 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report. We incur expenses related to our debt and mandatorily redeemable preferred stock. Critical Accounting Estimates There are certain accounting policies that we consider to be critical due to the amount of judgment and uncertainty inherent in the application of those policies. In calculating financial statement estimates, the use of different assumptions could produce materially different estimates. In addition, if factors such as those described above or in Item 1A Risk Factors cause actual events to differ from the assumptions used in applying the accounting policies and calculating financial estimates, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. The following critical accounting policies require significant estimates. The actual amounts realized could ultimately be materially different from the amounts currently provided for in our consolidated financial statements. Reserves Reserves are established according to GAAP using generally accepted actuarial methods and are based on a number of factors. These factors include experience derived from historical claim payments and actuarial assumptions to arrive at loss development factors. Such assumptions and other factors include trends, the incidence of incurred claims, the extent to which all claims have been reported and internal claims processing charges. The process used in computing reserves cannot be exact, particularly for liability coverages, since actual claim costs are dependent upon such complex factors as inflation, changes in doctrines of legal liabilities and damage awards. The methods of making such estimates and establishing the related liabilities are periodically reviewed and updated. Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of exposure, but instead represent our best estimates, generally involving actuarial projections at a given time of what we expect the ultimate settlement and administration of a claim or group of claims will cost based on our assessment of facts and circumstances then known. The adequacy of reserves will be impacted by future trends in claims severity, frequency, judicial theories of liability and other factors. These variables are affected by both external and internal events, such as: changes in the economic cycle, changes in the social perception of the value of work, emerging medical perceptions regarding physiological or psychological causes of disability, emerging health issues and new methods of treatment or accommodation, inflation, judicial trends, legislative changes and claims handling procedures. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis. Reserve estimates are refined as experience develops. Adjustments to reserves, both positive and negative, are reflected in the statement of operations of the period in which such estimates are updated. Because establishment of reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates of future losses, there can be no certainty that ultimate losses will not exceed existing claims reserves. Future loss development could require reserves to be increased, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings in the periods in which such increases are made. 49 Table of Contents The following table provides reserve information by our major lines of business for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007: December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Claims and BenefitsPayable Claims and BenefitsPayable FuturePolicyBenefits andExpenses UnearnedPremiums CaseReserves IncurredBut NotReportedReserves FuturePolicyBenefits andExpenses UnearnedPremiums CaseReserve IncurredBut NotReportedReserves Long Duration Contracts: Preneed funeral life insurance policies and investment type annuity contracts $ 3,432,583 $ 4,815 $ 11,664 $ 3,796 $ 3,479,115 $ 3,877 $ 11,559 $ 3,991 Life insurance no longer offered 498,945 735 1,516 349 511,093 765 1,414 509 Universal life and other products no longer offered 288,981 300 208 7,682 307,930 1,689 267 8,211 FFG, LTC and other disposed businesses 2,764,874 41,771 25,764 352,344 2,756,059 44,414 26,994 278,497 Medical 105,236 14,688 12,627 19,826 130,005 18,564 14,712 30,998 All other 5,026 288 18,194 7,664 5,294 316 14,174 6,248 Short Duration Contracts: Group term life 6,265 212,745 43,517 6,659 231,534 49,509 Group disability 2,392 1,325,418 147,584 2,806 1,363,098 161,733 Medical 109,759 96,702 181,158 109,755 115,198 201,601 Dental 4,642 3,610 21,580 5,035 3,479 17,419 Property and Warranty 1,887,510 228,920 332,930 1,816,436 192,307 312,091 Credit Life and Disability 395,091 85,312 72,665 494,118 102,151 87,373 Extended Service Contract 2,788,327 2,187 65,769 2,768,048 4,606 40,736 All other 151,276 6,861 14,139 138,227 9,678 12,997 Total $ 7,095,645 $ 5,407,859 $ 2,031,728 $ 1,271,003 $ 7,189,496 $ 5,410,709 $ 2,091,171 $ 1,211,913 For a description of our reserving methodology, see Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report. The following discusses the reserving process for our major long duration product line. Long Duration Contracts Reserves for future policy benefits are recorded as the present value of future benefits to policyholders and related expenses less the present value of future net premiums. Reserve assumptions are selected using best estimates for expected investment yield, inflation, mortality and withdrawal rates. These assumptions reflect current trends, are based on our experience and include a provision for possible unfavorable deviation. We also record an unearned revenue reserve which represents the balance of the excess of gross premiums over net premiums that is still to be recognized in future years income in a constant relationship to insurance in force. Risks related to the reserves recorded for contracts from FFG and LTC disposed businesses have been 100% ceded via reinsurance. While the Company has not been released from the contractual obligation to the policyholders, changes in and deviations from economic and mortality assumptions used in the calculation of these reserves will not directly affect our results of operations unless there is a default by the assuming reinsurer. Premium deficiency testing is performed annually and reviewed quarterly. Such testing involves the use of best estimate assumptions to determine if the net liability position (all liabilities less DAC) exceeds the minimum liability needed. Any premium deficiency would first be addressed by removing the provision for adverse deviation. To the extent a premium deficiency still remains, it would be recognized immediately by a charge to the statement of operations and a corresponding reduction in DAC. Any additional deficiency would be recognized as a premium deficiency reserve. 50 Table of Contents Historically, premium deficiency testing has not resulted in a material adjustment to DAC or reserves. Such adjustments would occur only if economic or mortality conditions significantly deteriorated. Short Duration Contracts For short duration contracts, claims and benefits payable reserves are reported when insured events occur. The liability is based on the expected ultimate cost of settling the claims. The claims and benefits payable reserves include (1) case reserves for known but unpaid claims as of the balance sheet date; (2) IBNR reserves for claims where the insured event has occurred but has not been reported to us as of the balance sheet date; and (3) loss adjustment expense reserves for the expected handling costs of settling the claims. Periodically, we review emerging experience and make adjustments to our case reserves and assumptions where necessary. Below are further discussions on the reserving process for our major short duration products. Group Disability and Group Term Life Case or claim reserves are set for active individual claims on group long term disability policies and for disability waiver of premium benefits on group term life policies. Assumptions considered in setting such reserves include disabled life mortality and claim recovery rates, claim management practices, awards for social security and other benefit offsets and yield rates earned on assets supporting the reserves. Group long term disability and group term life waiver of premium reserves are discounted because the payment pattern and ultimate cost are fixed and determinable on an individual claim basis. Factors considered when setting IBNR reserves include patterns in elapsed time from claim incidence to claim reporting, and elapsed time from claim reporting to claim payment. Key sensitivities at December 31, 2008 for group long term disability claim reserves include the discount rate and claim termination rates. Claims andBenefits Payable Claims andBenefits Payable Group disability, discount rate decreased by 100 basis points $ 1,546,983 Group disability, claim terminationrate 10% lower $ 1,511,169 Group disability, as reported $ 1,473,002 Group disability, as reported $ 1,473,002 Group disability, discount rate increased by 100 basis points $ 1,405,172 Group disability, claim terminationrate 10% higher $ 1,435,026 The discount rate is also a key sensitivity for group term life waiver of premium reserves. Claims and Benefits Payable Group term life, discount rate decreased by 10% $ 266,090 Group term life, as reported $ 256,262 Group life, discount rate increased by 10% $ 247,447 Medical IBNR reserves represent the largest component of reserves estimated for claims and benefits payable in our Medical line of business, and the primary methods we use in their estimation are the loss development method and the projected claim method for recent claim periods. Under the loss development method, we estimate ultimate losses for each incident period by multiplying the current cumulative losses by the appropriate loss development factor. Under the projected claim method, we use ultimate loss ratios when development methods do not provide enough data to reliably estimate reserves. In addition, we use variations on each method as well as a blend of the two. The primary variation is the use of projected claims using differing experience periods. We primarily use these two methods in our Medical line of business because of the limitations of relying exclusively on a single method. 51 Table of Contents We develop the best estimate of expected outstanding liabilities for medical IBNR reserves using generally accepted actuarial principles. The various product lines are evaluated using experience data of sufficient detail to allow for the compilation of historical loss patterns including but not limited to claim lag factors, projected claims per member and restated development factors. If sufficient experience data is not available, experience data from other similar blocks may be used. Industry data provides additional benchmarks when historical experience is too limited. This information is used to provide a range in which the expected outstanding liabilities may fall. The selection of the ultimate loss estimate varies by product line as the credibility of certain methods differs depending upon the in force volume, the products claim volatility and the method itself. The selection is also influenced by other available information that may indicate that historical experience data may not be appropriate to use for current liability estimates. Examples of such information include but are not limited to changes in claims inventory levels, changes in provider negotiated rates or cost savings initiatives, increasing or decreasing medical cost trends, product changes and demographic changes in the underlying insured population. The development of prior period estimates is also reviewed to assist in establishing the current periods loss reserves. The short claim lag time inherent in many of our Medical products allows for emerging trends to be identified quickly. We evaluate all pertinent information and indicated ranges using experience and actuarial judgment to establish our best estimate for the associated liabilities. Key sensitivities as of December 31, 2008 for medical reserves include claims processing levels, claims under case management, medical inflation, seasonal effects, medical provider discounts and product mix. Claims and Benefits Payable Medical, loss development factors 1% lower $ 291,860 * Medical, as reported $ 277,860 Medical, loss development factors 1% higher $ 265,860 * This refers to loss development factors for the most recent four months. Our historical claims experience indicates that approximately 87% of medical claims are paid within four months of the incurred date. None of the changes in incurred claims from prior years in our Medical line of business were attributable to any change in our reserve methods or assumptions. Property and Warranty We develop the best estimate of loss reserves for our Property and Warranty line of business on a product line basis using generally accepted actuarial principles. Our Property and Warranty line of business includes creditor placed homeowners, manufactured housing homeowners, credit property, credit unemployment and warranty insurance and some longer tail coverages (e.g., asbestos, environmental, other general liability and personal accident). Our Property and Warranty loss reserves consist of case, IBNR and development on case reserves. The method we most often use in setting our Property and Warranty reserves is the loss development method. Under this method, we estimate ultimate losses for each accident period by multiplying the current cumulative losses by the appropriate loss development factor. We then calculate the reserve as the difference between the estimate of ultimate losses and the current case incurred losses (paid losses plus case reserves). We select loss development factors based on a review of historical averages, and we consider recent trends and business specific matters such as current claims payment practices. The loss development method involves aggregating loss data (paid losses and case incurred losses) by accident quarter (or accident year) and accident age in quarters (or years) for each product or product grouping. As the data ages, we compile loss development factors that measure emerging claim development patterns between reporting periods. By selecting the most appropriate loss development factors, we project the known losses to an ultimate incurred basis for each accident period. 52 Table of Contents The data is typically analyzed using quarterly paid losses and or quarterly case incurred losses. Some product groupings may also use annual paid loss and or annual case incurred losses, as well as other methods such the expected loss ratio and Bornhuetter Ferguson loss development methods. Each of these reserve methodologies produces an indication of the loss reserves for the product or product grouping. The process to select the best estimate differs across lines of business. The single best estimate is determined based on many factors, including but not limited to: the nature and extent of the underlying assumptions; the quality and applicability of historical data whether it be internal or industry data; current and future market conditions the economic environment will often impact the development of loss triangles; the extent of data segmentation data should be homogenous yet credible enough for loss development methods to apply, and the past variability of loss estimates the loss estimates on some product lines will vary from actual loss experience more than others. We review operational and claims activity to gather additional pertinent information. After reviewing all additional pertinent information, a final IBNR amount for each product grouping is selected. We may use other methods depending on data credibility and product line. We use the estimates generated by the various methods to establish a range of reasonable estimates. The best estimate of Property and Warranty reserves is generally selected from the middle to upper end of the third quartile of the range of reasonable estimates. Most of our credit insurance business is written on a retrospective commission basis, which permits management to adjust commissions based on claims experience. Thus, any adjustment to prior years incurred claims in this line of business is partially offset by a change in contingent commissions, which is included in the selling, underwriting and general expenses line in our results of operations. While management has used its best judgment in establishing its estimate of required reserves, different assumptions and variables could lead to significantly different reserve estimates. Two key measures of loss activity are loss frequency, which is a measure of the number of claims per unit of insured exposure, and loss severity, which is a measure of the average size of claims. Factors affecting loss frequency include the effectiveness of loss controls and safety programs and changes in economic activity or weather patterns. Factors affecting loss severity include changes in policy limits, retentions, rate of inflation and judicial interpretations. If the actual level of loss frequency and severity are higher or lower than expected, the ultimate reserves will be different than managements estimate. The effect of higher and lower levels of loss frequency and severity levels on our ultimate costs for claims occurring in 2008 would be as follows: Change in both loss frequency and severity for all Property and Warranty Ultimate cost of claimsoccurring in 2008 Change in cost of claimsoccurring in 2008 3% higher $ 596,067 $ 34,217 2% higher $ 584,549 $ 22,699 1% higher $ 573,143 $ 11,293 Base scenario $ 561,850 1% lower $ 550,557 $ (11,293 ) 2% lower $ 539,151 $ (22,699 ) 3% lower $ 527,633 $ (34,217 ) 53 Table of Contents Reserving for Asbestos and Other Claims Our property and warranty line of business includes exposure to asbestos, environmental and other general liability claims arising from our participation in various reinsurance pools from 1971 through 1985. This exposure arose from a short duration contract that we discontinued writing many years ago. We carry case reserves, as recommended by the various pool managers, and IBNR reserves totaling $32,000 (before reinsurance) and $30,300 (net of reinsurance) at December 31, 2008. We believe the balance of case and IBNR reserves for these liabilities are adequate. However, any estimation of these liabilities is subject to greater than normal variation and uncertainty due to the general lack of sufficiently detailed data, reporting delays and absence of a generally accepted actuarial methodology for those exposures. There are significant unresolved industry legal issues, including such items as whether coverage exists and what constitutes an occurrence. In addition, the determination of ultimate damages and the final allocation of losses to financially responsible parties are highly uncertain. However, based on information currently available, and after consideration of the reserves reflected in the financial statements, we believe that any changes in reserve estimates for these claims are not reasonably likely to be material. One of our subsidiaries, American Reliable Insurance Company (ARIC), participated in certain excess of loss reinsurance programs in the London market and, as a result, reinsured certain personal accident, ransom and kidnap insurance risks from 1995 to 1997. ARIC and a foreign affiliate ceded a portion of these risks to retrocessionaires. ARIC ceased reinsuring such business in 1997. However, certain risks continued beyond 1997 due to the nature of the reinsurance contracts written. ARIC and some of the other reinsurers involved in the programs are seeking to avoid certain treaties on various grounds, including material misrepresentation and non disclosure by the ceding companies and intermediaries involved in the programs. Similarly, some of the retrocessionaires are seeking avoidance of certain treaties with ARIC and the other reinsurers and some reinsureds are seeking collection of disputed balances under some of the treaties. The disputes generally involve multiple layers of reinsurance, and allegations that the reinsurance programs involved interrelated claims spirals devised to disproportionately pass claims losses to higher level reinsurance layers. Many of the companies involved in these programs, including ARIC, are currently involved in negotiations, arbitrations and or litigation between multiple layers of retrocessionaries, reinsurers, ceding companies and intermediaries, including brokers, in an effort to resolve these disputes. Many of the disputes involving ARIC and an affiliate, Bankers Insurance Company Limited (BICL), relating to the 1995 and 1997 program years, were resolved by settlement or arbitration. Negotiations, arbitrations and litigation are still ongoing or will be scheduled for the remaining disputes. On February 28, 2006, there was a settlement relating to the 1996 program. In 2007, there were two settlements relating to parts of the 1997 program. During 2008, there was a $35,000 settlement relating to the 1997 program. Loss accruals previously established relating to the 1996 and 1997 programs were adequate. As of December 31, 2008, we have $24,046 in loss reserves accrued. We believe, based on information currently available, that the amounts accrued are adequate. However, the inherent uncertainty of arbitrations and lawsuits, including the uncertainty of estimating whether any settlements we may enter into in the future would be on favorable terms, makes it difficult to predict the outcomes with certainty. DAC The costs of acquiring new business that vary with and are primarily related to the production of new business are deferred to the extent that such costs are deemed recoverable from future premiums or gross profits. Acquisition costs primarily consist of commissions, policy issuance expenses, premium tax and certain direct marketing expenses. Premium deficiency testing is performed annually and reviewed quarterly. Such testing involves the use of best estimate assumptions, including the anticipation of interest income to determine if anticipated future policy premiums are adequate to recover all DAC and related claims, benefits and expenses. To the extent a premium 54 Table of Contents deficiency exists, it is recognized immediately by a charge to the statement of operations and a corresponding reduction in DAC. If the premium deficiency is greater than unamortized DAC, a liability will be accrued for the excess deficiency. Long Duration Contracts Acquisition costs for preneed life insurance policies and life insurance policies (no longer offered) are deferred and amortized in proportion to anticipated premiums over the premium paying period. These acquisition costs consist primarily of first year commissions paid to agents and sales and policy issue costs. For preneed investment type annuities, universal life insurance policies and investment type annuity contracts that are (no longer offered), DAC is amortized in proportion to the present value of estimated gross margins or profits from investment, mortality, expense margins and surrender charges over the estimated life of the policy or contract. The assumptions used for the estimates are consistent with those used in computing the policy or contract liabilities. Acquisition costs relating to worksite group disability which typically has high front end costs and are expected to remain in force for an extended period of time consist primarily of first year commissions to brokers and one time policy transfer fees and costs of issuing new certificates. These acquisition costs are front end loaded, thus they are deferred and amortized over the estimated terms of the underlying contracts. Acquisition costs relating to the majority of individual medical contracts issued prior to 2003, a limited number of individual medical contracts issued from 2003 through 2006 in certain jurisdictions, and individual voluntary limited benefit health policies issued in 2007 and later, are deferred and amortized over the estimated average terms of the underlying contracts. These acquisition costs relate to commissions and policy issuance expenses. Commissions represent the majority of deferred costs and result from commission schedules that pay significantly higher rates in the first year. The majority of deferred policy issuance expenses are the costs of separately underwriting each individual medical contract. Short Duration Contracts Acquisition costs relating to property contracts, warranty and extended service contracts and single premium credit insurance contracts are amortized over the term of the contracts in relation to premiums earned. Acquisition costs relating to monthly pay credit insurance business consist mainly of direct marketing costs and are deferred and amortized over the estimated average terms and balances of the underlying contracts. Acquisition costs relating to group term life, group disability and group dental consist primarily of compensation to sales representatives. These acquisition costs are front end loaded; thus, they are deferred and amortized over the estimated terms of the underlying contracts. Acquisition costs on the majority of individual medical contracts issued from 2003 through 2006, all medical contracts issued after 2006 and all small group medical contracts consist primarily of commissions to agents and brokers and compensation to representatives. These contracts are considered short duration because the terms of the contract are not fixed at issue and they are not guaranteed renewable. As a result, these costs are not deferred, but rather are recorded in the statement of operations in the period in which they are incurred. Investments We regularly monitor our investment portfolio to ensure that investments that may be other than temporarily impaired are identified in a timely fashion, properly valued and any impairments are charged against earnings in the proper period. The determination that a security has incurred an other than temporary decline in value requires the judgment of management. 55 Table of Contents Securities whose market price is equal to 80% or less of their original purchase price or which had a discrete credit event resulting in the debtor defaulting or seeking bankruptcy protection are added to a potential write down list, which is discussed at quarterly meetings attended by members of our investment, accounting and finance departments. Any security whose price decrease is deemed other than temporary is written down to its then current market level with the amount of the impairment reported as a realized loss in that period. Assessment factors include, but are not limited to, the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than cost, the financial condition and rating of the issuer, whether any collateral is held and the intent and ability of the Company to retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for recovery. Inherently, there are risks and uncertainties involved in making these judgments. Changes in circumstances and critical assumptions such as a continued weak economy, a more pronounced economic downturn or unforeseen events which affect one or more companies, industry sectors or countries could result in additional impairments in future periods for other than temporary declines in value. See also Investments in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report and Item 1A Risk Factors Our investment portfolio is subject to several risks that may diminish the value of our invested assets and affect our profitability and Investments contained later in this item. Realized gains and losses on sales of investments are recognized on the specific identification basis. Reinsurance Reinsurance recoverables include amounts related to paid benefits and estimated amounts related to unpaid policy and contract claims, future policyholder benefits and policyholder contract deposits. The cost of reinsurance is accounted for over the terms of the underlying reinsured policies using assumptions consistent with those used to account for the policies. Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with claim and claim adjustment expense reserves or future policy benefits reserves and are reported in our consolidated balance sheets. The ceding of insurance does not discharge our primary liability to our insureds. An estimated allowance for doubtful accounts is recorded on the basis of periodic evaluations of balances due from reinsurers, reinsurer solvency, managements experience and current economic conditions. The following table sets forth our reinsurance recoverables as of the dates indicated: As ofDecember 31, 2008 As ofDecember 31, 2007 Reinsurance recoverables $ 4,010,170 $ 3,904,348 We have used reinsurance to exit certain businesses, such as the dispositions of FFG and LTC. The reinsurance recoverables relating to these dispositions amounted to $2,616,622 and $2,544,685 at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. In the ordinary course of business, we are involved in both the assumption and cession of reinsurance with non affiliated companies. The following table provides details of the reinsurance recoverables balance for the years ended December 31: 2008 2007 Ceded future policyholder benefits and expense $ 2,672,754 $ 2,662,654 Ceded unearned premium 637,528 643,792 Ceded claims and benefits payable 637,103 540,615 Ceded paid losses 62,785 57,287 Total $ 4,010,170 $ 3,904,348 56 Table of Contents We utilize reinsurance for loss protection and capital management, business dispositions and, in Assurant Solutions, client risk and profit sharing. See also Item 1A Risk Factors Reinsurance may not be available or adequate to protect us against losses and we are subject to the credit risk of insurers, and Item 7AQuantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Credit Risk. Retirement and Other Employee Benefits We sponsor a pension and a retirement health benefit plan covering our employees who meet specified eligibility requirements. The reported expense and liability associated with these plans requires an extensive use of assumptions which include the discount rate, expected return on plan assets and rate of future compensation increases. We determine these assumptions based upon currently available market and industry data, and historical performance of the plan and its assets, to aid us in selecting appropriate assumptions and valuing our related liabilities. The actuarial assumptions used in the calculation of our aggregate projected benefit obligation may vary and include an expectation of long term market appreciation in equity markets which is not changed by minor short term market fluctuations, but does change when large interim deviations occur. The assumptions we use may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates or longer or shorter life spans of the participants. See Note 21 to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our retirement and other employee benefits, including a sensitivity analysis for changes in the assumed health care cost trend rates. Contingencies We follow the requirements of FAS No. 5, Accounting for Contingencies (FAS 5). This requires management to evaluate each contingent matter separately. A loss is reported if reasonably estimable and probable. We establish reserves for these contingencies at the best estimate, or, if no one estimated number within the range of possible losses is more probable than any other, we report an estimated reserve at the low end of the estimated range. Contingencies affecting the Company include litigation matters which are inherently difficult to evaluate and are subject to significant changes. Deferred Taxes Deferred income taxes are recorded for temporary differences between the financial reporting and income tax bases of assets and liabilities, based on enacted tax laws and statutory tax rates applicable to the periods in which the Company expects the temporary differences to reverse. A valuation allowance is established for deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that an amount will not be realized. The Company has significant deferred tax assets resulting from capital loss carryforwards and other temporary differences that may reduce taxable income in future periods. The detailed components of our deferred tax assets, liabilities and valuation allowance are included in Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements. FAS No.109, Accounting for Income Taxes (FAS 109) states that a deferred tax asset should be reduced by a valuation allowance if, based on the weight of all available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. The valuation allowance should be sufficient to reduce the deferred tax asset to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In determining whether the Companys deferred tax asset is realizable, the Company weighed all available evidence, including both positive and negative evidence. The realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the existence of sufficient taxable income of the same character during the carryback or carryforward period. The Company has considered all sources of taxable income available to realize the deferred tax asset, including the future reversal of existing temporary differences, future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carry forwards, taxable income in carry back years and tax planning strategies. The Company has concluded that it is not more likely than not that it will generate sufficient taxable income of the same character in the foreseeable future to realize all of its deferred tax assets related to capital loss carryovers. During 2008, the Company realized a tax benefit of $174,864 upon the sale of a non operating 57 Table of Contents subsidiary, United Family Life Insurance Company (UFLIC), reflecting the tax benefit of prior goodwill impairments. After utilizing all carryback capacity of capital gains, a valuation allowance of $152,343 was established in the second quarter of 2008 to reduce the deferred tax asset for the remaining capital loss carryforward. The gross deferred tax asset for cumulative realized and unrealized capital losses as of December 31, 2008 is $629,700, including the carryover from the loss on the sale of UFLIC in the second quarter of 2008. The gross deferred tax asset of $629,700 has been reduced by a valuation allowance of $90,000 as of December 31, 2008 because it is not more likely than not that this deferred tax asset will be realized in its entirety in the foreseeable future. This resulted in a reduction of the valuation allowance of $62,343 in the fourth quarter of 2008 related to deferred tax assets on capital loss carryovers. This reduction was recorded as a benefit in the statement of operations in the fourth quarter of 2008. Certain tax planning strategies were identified by the company during the fourth quarter of 2008 as a result of the Signal acquisition, which owns a group of companies. While no specific strategies were identified at the time of the acquisition, and while no commitments to implement any strategy have been made, prudent and feasible strategies could generate taxable capital gain income in the foreseeable future and were considered in the realization to the Companys deferred tax assets and the reduction of the valuation allowance. The realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the existence of sufficient taxable income of the same character during the carry back or carryforward period. U.S. tax rules mandate that capital losses can only be recovered against capital gains. An example of capital gains would be gains from the sale of investments. The Company is dependent upon having capital gain income in the foreseeable future to use the capital loss carryforward in its entirety. To support the deferred tax asset during the fourth quarter, the Company was able to rely on future taxable capital gain income from gross unrealized gains in its investment portfolio, which had increased from earlier quarters of unprecedented market declines. The Company was also able to rely on the use of various tax planning strategies to forecast taxable capital gains in the foreseeable future. FAS 109 indicates that a tax planning strategy is an action that management ordinarily might not take but would take, if necessary, to realize a tax benefit for a carryforward before it expires. These are actions that are prudent and feasible and would result in the realization of deferred tax assets. Examples include, but are not limited to, changing the character of taxable or deductible amounts from ordinary income or loss to capital gain or loss or accelerating taxable amounts. The gross deferred tax asset related to net operating loss carryforwards on international subsidiaries is $28,863. It is more likely than not that some of this asset will not be realized in the foreseeable future. As such, a cumulative valuation allowance of $7,466 was recorded as of December 31, 2008, including a valuation allowance against the net operating losses of the Companys Denmark subsidiary, which we plan to close during 2009. The Company is dependent on income of the same character in the same jurisdiction to support the deferred tax assets related to net operating loss carryforwards of international subsidiaries. The Company believes it is more likely than not that the remainder of its deferred tax assets will be realized in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, other than noted herein for capital loss carryovers and international subsidiaries, a valuation allowance has not been established. Future reversal of the valuation allowance will be recognized either when the benefit is realized or when it has been determined that it is more likely than not that the benefit will be realized. Depending on the nature of the taxable income that results in a reversal of the valuation allowance, and on managements judgment, the reversal will be recognized either through other comprehensive (loss) income or through continuing operations in the statement of operations. Likewise, if the Company determines that it is not more likely than not that it would be able to realize all or part of the deferred tax asset in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance would be recorded through a charge to continuing operations in the statement of operations in the period such determination is made. In determining the appropriate valuation allowance, certain judgments are made by management relating to recoverability of deferred tax assets, use of tax loss and tax credit carryforwards, levels of expected future taxable income and available tax planning strategies. The assumptions in making these judgments are updated 58 Table of Contents periodically by management based on current business conditions that affect the Company and overall economic conditions. These management judgments are therefore subject to change based on factors that include, but are not limited to, changes in expected capital gain income in the foreseeable future and the ability of the Company to successfully execute its tax planning strategies. Valuation and Recoverability of Goodwill Goodwill represented $1,001,899 and $832,656 of our $24,514,586 and $26,750,316 total assets as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We review our goodwill annually in the fourth quarter for impairment, or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist. We regularly assess whether any indicators of impairment exist. Such indicators include, but are not limited to: a sustained significant decline in our share price and market capitalization or a significant decline in our expected future cash flows due to changes in company specific factors or the broader business climate. The evaluation of such factors requires considerable management judgment. Any adverse change in these factors could have a significant impact on the recoverability of goodwill and could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. When required, we test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level. Following the guidance of FAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (FAS 142), we have concluded that our reporting units for goodwill testing are equivalent to our reported operating segments, excluding the Corporate and Other segment. The following table illustrates the amount of goodwill assigned to each reporting unit: December 31, 2008 2007 Assurant Solutions (1) $ 372,792 $ 203,549 Assurant Specialty Property 239,726 239,726 Assurant Health 204,303 204,303 Assurant Employee Benefits 185,078 185,078 Total $ 1,001,899 $ 832,656 (1) The increase in the amount of goodwill assigned to the Assurant Solutions reporting unit is primarily the result of the Companys fourth quarter 2008 acquisition of Signal Holdings, Inc. For each reporting unit, we first compare its fair value with its net book value. If the fair value exceeds its net book value, goodwill is deemed not to be impaired, and no further testing is necessary. If the net book value exceeds its fair value, we would perform a second test to measure the amount of impairment if any. To determine the amount of any impairment, we would determine the implied fair value of goodwill in the same manner as if the reporting unit were being acquired in a business combination. Specifically, we would determine the fair value of all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, including any unrecognized intangible assets, in a hypothetical calculation that would yield the implied fair value of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill were less than the recorded goodwill, we would record an impairment charge for the difference. The following describes the valuation methodologies used in both 2008 and 2007 to derive the fair value of the reporting units. For each reporting unit we identify a group of peer companies, which have operations that are as similar as possible to the reporting unit. Certain of our reporting units have a very limited number of peer companies. A Public Company Analysis is then used to value the reporting unit based upon its relative performance to its peer companies, based on several measures, including price to trailing 12 month earnings, price to projected earnings, price to tangible net worth and return on equity. A Discounted Cash Flow Analysis (DCF) is used to value the reporting unit based upon the expected earnings available for distribution over future periods. Free cash flows are projected to equal future earnings, less 59 Table of Contents the amount of capital required for the business. This cash flow stream is discounted back to its present value by the reporting units cost of capital factor, including a terminal value for potential dividend expectations after the projected period, to arrive at an indicated value. Earnings and required capital used in the projections are based on best estimate projections of revenue growth, loss experience, investment income, expenses, and rating agency formulas for major products lines written in the reporting unit. The cost of capital assumed for each reporting unit reflects our estimates of the risks inherent in the forecasts. An Acquisition Analysis values the reporting unit based on comparisons to relevant insurance industry acquisitions over the previous three years. For Assurant Health, health insurance industry acquisitions were emphasized in determining the Assurant Health segment valuation multiples. The remaining reporting units used a broad selection of insurance industry acquisitions. While all three valuation methodologies are considered in assessing fair value, the DCF received the highest weighting of the three methodologies due to the recent dislocations in the economy, the scarcity of M&A transactions in the insurance marketplace (particularly during 2008), and the relative lack of directly comparable companies for certain of our reporting units, particularly Assurant Solutions. In the fourth quarters of 2008 and 2007, we conducted our annual assessments of goodwill using the methodologies discussed above. Based on the results of these assessments, we concluded that the fair value of the reporting units exceeded their respective net book values. Therefore, the second step of the FAS 142 goodwill impairment test to determine the implied fair value of goodwill was not necessary. The determination of fair value of the reporting units requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions primarily include, but are not limited to, earnings and required capital projections discussed above, discount rates, terminal growth rates, operating income and dividend forecasts for each reporting unit and the weighting assigned to the results of each of the three valuation methods described above. Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making these estimates, actual results could differ materially from those estimates. We evaluated the significant assumptions used to determine the fair values of each reporting unit, both individually and in the aggregate and concluded they are reasonable. Changes in certain assumptions could have a significant impact on the goodwill impairment assessment. For example, an increase of the discount rate of 139 basis points and 176 basis points for the Assurant Solutions and Assurant Employee Benefits, respectively, would result in their respective fair values being less than their net book values as of December 31, 2008. Likewise, a reduction in projected free cash flows for the Assurant Solutions and Assurant Employee Benefits of 22% and 20% respectively, would result in their respective fair values being less than their net book values as of December 31, 2008. It would take more significant movements in our estimates and assumptions in order for Assurant Health and Assurant Specialty Propertys fair values to be less than their net book values. During the fourth quarter of 2008, we experienced a significant decline in our stock price, which during the quarter reached its lowest point since our IPO. Our market capitalization was approximately $6,500,000 at September 30, 2008, but declined significantly during the fourth quarter amidst the unprecedented volatility in the capital markets before rising to approximately $3,500,000 at December 31, 2008. Our market capitalization at December 31, 2008 was approximately 94% of our book value. As demonstrated in the graph and table in Item 5. Market for Registrants Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities, our stock price has historically outperformed various stock indices and has consistently traded at prices well above those of the fourth quarter of 2008. Should current market conditions continue for an extended period, or should the operating results of any of our reporting units decline substantially compared to projected results, we could determine that we need to record a non cash impairment charge related to goodwill. Any such charge would have no effect on either the Companys cash balance or future cash flows. 60 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements Adopted On January 1, 2008, the Company adopted FAS No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (FAS 157) which defines fair value, addresses how companies should measure fair value when they are required to use a fair value measure for recognition or disclosure purposes under GAAP and expands disclosures about fair value measurements. FAS 157 is applied prospectively for financial assets and liabilities measured on a recurring basis as of January 1, 2008 except for certain financial assets that were measured at fair value using a transaction price. For these financial instruments, FAS 157 requires limited retrospective adoption and thus the difference between the fair values using a transaction price and the fair values using an exit price of the relevant financial instruments will be shown as a cumulative effect adjustment to the January 1, 2008 retained earnings balance. At adoption, the Company recognized a $4,400 decrease to other assets, and a corresponding decrease of $2,860 (after tax) to retained earnings. Effective September 30, 2008, the Company adopted Financial Statement of Position (FSP) FAS 157 3, Determining the Fair Value of a Financial Asset in a Market That Is Not Active (FSP FAS 157 3). FSP FAS 157 3 clarifies the application of FAS 157 regarding the pricing of securities in an inactive market. The adoption of FSP FAS 157 3 did not have an impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. See Note 6 for further information regarding FAS 157. On January 1, 2008, the Company adopted FAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (FAS 159). FAS 159 provides a choice to measure many financial instruments and certain other items at fair value on specified election dates and requires disclosures about the election of the fair value option. Unrealized gains and losses on items for which the fair value option has been elected are reported in earnings. The Company has chosen not to elect the fair value option for any financial or non financial instruments as of the adoption date, thus the adoption of FAS 159 did not have an impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. On January 1, 2008, the Company adopted Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) Issue No. 06 10, Accounting for Deferred Compensation and Postretirement Benefit Aspects of Collateral Assignment Split Dollar Life Insurance Arrangements (EITF 06 10). EITF 06 10 provides guidance regarding the employers recognition of the liability and the related compensation costs for collateral assignment split dollar life insurance arrangements that provide a benefit to an employee that extends into postretirement periods. This consensus concludes that for a collateral assignment split dollar life insurance arrangement, an employer should recognize a liability for future benefits in accordance with FAS No. 106, Employers Accounting For Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions, (if, in substance, a postretirement benefit plan exists) or Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 12, Deferred Compensation Contracts, (APB 12) (if the arrangement is, in substance, an individual deferred compensation contract) based on the substantive agreement with the employee. The Company has been recording its liability for future benefits in accordance with APB 12, thus the adoption of EITF 06 10 did not have an impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In December 2007, the FASB issued FAS No. 141R, Business Combinations (FAS 141R). FAS 141R replaces FAS No. 141, Business Combinations (FAS 141). FAS 141R retains the fundamental requirements of FAS 141 that the acquisition method of accounting be used for all business combinations, that an acquirer be identified for each business combination and for goodwill to be recognized and measured as a residual. FAS 141R expands the definition of transactions and events that qualify as business combinations to all transactions and other events in which one entity obtains control over one or more other businesses. FAS 141R broadens the fair value measurement and recognition of assets acquired, liabilities assumed, and interests transferred as a result of business combinations. FAS 141R also increases the disclosure requirements for business combinations in the financial statements. FAS 141R is effective for fiscal periods beginning after December 15, 2008. Therefore, the Company is required to adopt FAS 141R on January 1, 2009. The adoption of FAS 141R will not have an impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. However, any business combination entered into beginning in 2009 may have a significantly different impact on our financial position and results of operations compared with its impact as recorded under FAS 141. Earnings volatility could result, depending on the terms of acquisition. 61 Table of Contents In December 2007, the FASB issued FAS No. 160, Non Controlling Interest in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51 (FAS 160). FAS 160 requires that a non controlling interest in a subsidiary be separately reported within equity and the amount of consolidated net income attributable to the non controlling interest be presented in the statement of operations. FAS 160 also calls for consistency in reporting changes in the parents ownership interest in a subsidiary and necessitates fair value measurement of any non controlling equity investment retained in a deconsolidation. FAS 160 is effective for fiscal periods beginning after December 15, 2008. Therefore, the Company is required to adopt FAS 160 on January 1, 2009. The adoption of FAS 160 will not have an impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. In February 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 157 2, Effective Date of FAS 157 (FSP FAS 157 2). FSP FAS 157 2 deferred the effective date of FAS 157 for all non financial assets and non financial liabilities measured or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a non recurring basis to fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2008, and interim periods within those fiscal years, which for the Company is January 1, 2009. The Company will apply the requirements of FAS 157 to its non financial assets measured at fair value on a non recurring basis which include goodwill and intangible assets. The Company does not currently have any non financial liabilities which are required to be measured at fair value on a non recurring basis. In a business combination, the Company would initially measure at fair value the non financial assets and liabilities of the acquired company. The requirements of FAS 157 include using an exit price based on an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date assuming the highest and best use of the asset by market participants. The Company will use a market, income or cost approach valuation technique to perform the valuations. Since the Company performs its scheduled impairment analyses of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets in the fourth quarter of each year, FSP FAS 157 2 will not have an impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations upon adoption. However, there may be an impact on the Companys financial position and results of operations from FSP FAS 157 2 when the Company performs its impairment analyses of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets due to the difference in fair value methodology required under FAS 157. In June 2008, the FASB issued FSP EITF No. 03 6 1, Determining Whether Instruments Granted in Share Based Payment Transactions Are Participating Securities (FSP EITF 03 6 1). FSP EITF 03 6 1 requires companies to treat unvested share based payment awards that have non forfeitable rights to dividends or dividend equivalents as participating securities. Therefore, these financial instruments need to be included in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share under the two class method described in FAS No. 128, Earnings Per Share. All prior period EPS data presented will be adjusted retrospectively. FSP EITF 03 6 1 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Therefore, the Company is required to adopt FSP EITF 03 6 1 on January 1, 2009. The adoption of FSP EITF 03 6 1 will not have a material impact on the Companys basic and diluted earnings per share calculations. In December 2008, the FASB issued FSP FAS 132R 1, Employers Disclosures About Postretirement Plan Benefit Assets (FSP FAS 132R 1). FSP FAS 132R 1 will require entities that are subject to the disclosure requirements of FAS 132R, Employers Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits An Amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, and 106, to make additional disclosures about plan assets for defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The additional disclosure requirements of FSP FAS 132R 1 include how investment allocation decisions are made, the major categories of plan assets and the inputs and valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of plan assets. FSP FAS 132R 1 will be effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2009. Therefore, the Company is required to adopt FSP FAS 132R 1 on December 31, 2009. The adoption of FSP FAS 132R 1 will not have an impact on the Companys financial position and results of operations. 62 Table of Contents Results of Operations Assurant Consolidated Overview The table below presents information regarding our consolidated results of operations: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Revenues: Net earned premiums and other considerations $ 7,925,348 $ 7,407,730 $ 6,843,775 Net investment income 774,347 799,073 736,686 Net realized (losses) gains on investments (428,679 ) (62,220 ) 111,865 Amortization of deferred gains on disposal of businesses 29,412 33,139 37,300 Fees and other income 300,800 275,793 340,958 Total revenues 8,601,228 8,453,515 8,070,584 Benefits, losses and expenses: Policyholder benefits 4,019,147 3,712,711 3,535,521 Selling, underwriting and general expenses (1) 3,957,850 3,668,586 3,378,078 Interest expense 60,953 61,178 61,243 Total benefits, losses and expenses 8,037,950 7,442,475 6,974,842 Income before provision for income taxes and cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 563,278 1,011,040 1,095,742 Provision for income taxes 115,482 357,294 379,871 Net income before cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 447,796 653,746 715,871 Cumulative effect of change in accounting principle 1,547 Net income $ 447,796 $ 653,746 $ 717,418 (1) Includes amortization of DAC and VOBA and underwriting, general and administrative expenses. The following discussion provides a general overall analysis of how the consolidated results were affected by our four operating segments and our Corporate and Other segment for the twelve months ended December 31, 2008 (Twelve Months 2008), twelve months ended December 31, 2007 (Twelve Months 2007) and twelve months ended December 31, 2006 (Twelve Months 2006). Please see the discussion that follows, for each of these segments, for a more detailed analysis of the fluctuations. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2007 Net income decreased $205,950 or 32% to $447,796 for Twelve Months 2008 from $653,746 for Twelve Months 2007. The decrease was primarily due to our Corporate and Other segment, which had $278,641 (after tax) of net realized losses on investments in 2008, compared with $40,443 (after tax) of net realized losses on investments in 2007. The net realized losses in 2008 and 2007 include $221,099 (after tax) and $31,320 (after tax), respectively, of realized losses from the write down of other than temporary declines in our investment portfolio. These declines were partially offset by an increase of $86,928 in Twelve Months 2008, consisting of a $2,064 gain (after tax) and a $84,864 related tax benefit, associated with the sale of UFLIC, during 2008. 63 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2006 Net income decreased $63,672, or 9%, to $653,746 for Twelve Months 2007 from $717,418 for Twelve Months 2006. The decrease was primarily due to our Corporate and Other segment, which had $40,443 (after tax) of net realized losses on investments in 2007, compared with $72,712 (after tax) of net realized gains on investments in 2006. The net realized losses in 2007 include $31,320 (after tax) of realized losses from the write down of other than temporary declines in our investment portfolio, while net realized gains in 2006 include a $63,900 (after tax) gain from the sale of our investment in PHCS. Also in 2006 our Assurant Solutions segment had a favorable legal settlement of $40,500 (after tax) and one time fee income recognized from a closed block of extended service contract business. Partially offsetting these items was the continued strong performance of our Assurant Specialty Property segment, which continued to experience strong premium growth and excellent combined ratios in its creditor placed homeowners insurance business, mainly due to exceptionally mild weather and our ability to leverage the benefits of scale. 64 Table of Contents Assurant Solutions Overview The table below presents information regarding Assurant Solutions segment results of operations: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Revenues: Net earned premiums and other considerations $ 2,813,407 $ 2,530,445 $ 2,371,605 Net investment income 420,615 427,331 392,510 Fees and other income 182,508 159,211 221,751 Total revenues 3,416,530 3,116,987 2,985,866 Benefits, losses and expenses: Policyholder benefits 1,198,758 1,073,858 998,770 Selling, underwriting and general expenses 2,041,892 1,830,709 1,689,776 Total benefits, losses and expenses 3,240,650 2,904,567 2,688,546 Segment income before provision for income taxes 175,880 212,420 297,320 Provision for income taxes 63,697 68,499 98,427 Segment net income $ 112,183 $ 143,921 $ 198,893 Net earned premiums and other considerations: Domestic: Credit $ 279,497 $ 303,231 $ 368,712 Service contracts 1,364,886 1,156,991 1,040,770 Other (1) 60,159 62,709 81,283 Total Domestic 1,704,542 1,522,931 1,490,765 International: Credit 368,442 376,709 394,482 Service contracts 355,248 249,803 99,494 Other (1) 20,175 39,144 66,729 Total International 743,865 665,656 560,705 Preneed 365,000 341,858 320,135 Total $ 2,813,407 $ 2,530,445 $ 2,371,605 Fees and other income: Domestic: Debt protection $ 34,459 $ 31,093 $ 54,053 Service contracts 79,298 70,709 66,427 Other (1) 26,661 25,039 80,072 Total Domestic 140,418 126,841 200,552 International 32,919 22,168 16,943 Preneed 9,171 10,202 4,256 Total $ 182,508 $ 159,211 $ 221,751 Gross written premiums (2): Domestic: Credit $ 604,101 $ 656,975 $ 714,791 Service contracts 1,530,284 1,828,048 1,600,588 Other (1) 71,393 85,005 108,569 Total Domestic 2,205,778 2,570,028 2,423,948 International: Credit 827,457 833,894 680,097 Service contracts 477,652 422,669 341,886 Other (1) 27,381 46,590 44,655 Total International 1,332,490 1,303,153 1,066,638 Total $ 3,538,268 $ 3,873,181 $ 3,490,586 Preneed (face sales) $ 445,313 $ 395,790 $ 433,510 Combined ratio (3): Domestic 100.6 % 101.1 % 99.4 % International 108.2 % 105.1 % 99.2 % 65 Table of Contents (1) This includes emerging products and run off products lines. (2) Gross written premiums does not necessarily translate to an equal amount of subsequent net earned premiums since Assurant Solutions reinsures a portion of its premiums to insurance subsidiaries of its clients. (3) The combined ratio is equal to total benefits, losses and expenses divided by net earned premiums and other considerations and fees and other income excluding the preneed business. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2007 Net Income Segment net income decreased $31,738, or 22%, to $112,183 for Twelve Months 2008 from $143,921 for Twelve Months 2007. Twelve Months 2008 net income decreased due to charges associated with client bankruptcies of $8,058 (after tax) and costs associated with our decision to exit business operations in Denmark of $9,651 (after tax). The comparative decrease is also due in part to $12,600 (after tax) of income recognized during 2007 related to settlement fees received from the sale of marketing rights for the independent U.S. preneed business and $8,900 (after tax) from the completed clients commission reconciliation project partially offset by a settlement with a client of $3,431. Absent these unusual items, net income increased $4,040 due to improved underwriting results from our domestic businesses partially offset by less favorable loss experience in our international businesses, specifically our United Kingdom (UK) operations, and continued costs to support our international expansion. Net investment income decreased $4,365 (after tax) primarily attributable to reduced investment income from lower distributions from real estate joint venture partnerships of approximately $9,300 (after tax) partially offset by an increase of approximately $5,000 (after tax) resulting from higher average invested assets attributable to growth in our international and domestic service contract business. The decrease in real estate joint venture partnership income is due to greater sales of underlying properties in Twelve Months 2007 compared with Twelve Months 2008 given more favorable real estate market conditions in 2007. These decreases were partially offset by earnings from acquisitions made in our domestic service contract business in the latter part of 2008. On September 26, 2008, the Company acquired the Warranty Management Group business from GE. The Company paid GE $140,000 in cash for the sale, transfer and conveyance of certain assets and assumed certain liabilities. As part of the acquisition, the Company entered into a new 10 year agreement to market extended warranties and service contracts on GE branded major appliances in the U.S. In a separate transaction, GE paid the Company $115,000 in cash and the Company eliminated DAC by $106,000 and a receivable from GE of $9,000 in connection with the termination of the existing strategic alliance. Under the pre existing relationship, the Company sold extended warranties directly to GE appliance purchasers and through leading retailers and paid commissions to GE. After the acquisition, the Company assumed full responsibility for operating the extended warranty business it previously co managed and shared with GE. Total Revenues Total revenues increased $299,543, or 10%, to $3,416,530 for Twelve Months 2008 from $3,116,987 for Twelve Months 2007. The increase in revenues is primarily attributable to increased net earned premiums and other considerations of $282,962. This increase is primarily due to growth in our domestic and international service contract businesses. The growth is driven by higher earnings from extended service contract premiums written in prior periods. We also experienced growth in our preneed business due to the acquisition of Mayflower in late 2007 and earnings from the existing exclusive distribution partnership with SCI funeral homes. These increases were partially offset by the continued runoff of our domestic credit insurance and the preneed independent US businesses. Also contributing to the increase in revenues was an increase in fees and other income of $23,297, or 15%, primarily from various international acquisitions made during the latter part of 2007 combined with the continued growth of our service contract businesses. Net investment income decreased $6,716, or 2%, due primarily to net investment income of $15,724 recognized in Twelve Months of 2007 from 66 Table of Contents real estate joint venture partnerships compared with $1,450 in Twelve Months ended 2008. Absent this investment income from real estate joint venture partnerships, net investment income increased $7,558, or 2%, primarily attributable to higher average invested assets from growth in our domestic and international service contract businesses. Gross written premiums decreased $334,913, or 9%, to $3,538,268 for Twelve Months 2008 from $3,873,181 for Twelve Months 2007. Gross written premiums from our domestic service contract business decreased $297,764, primarily due to closings of certain client retail stores and the impact of lower retail sales from other clients, partially offset by increases in premium from new clients. Gross written premiums from our domestic credit insurance business decreased $52,874 due to the continued runoff of this product line. Gross written premiums from our international credit business decreased $6,437 primarily driven by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates as the U.S. dollar strengthened against international currencies and slowdown in the UK mortgage market due to credit difficulties. This was partially offset by growth in other countries from increased marketing efforts and strong client production. Gross written premiums in our international service contract business increased $54,983 attributable to growth with both new and existing clients, which is consistent with our international expansion. We experienced an increase in preneed face sales of $49,523 primarily due to new business generated from former Alderwoods funeral homes and growth from our existing exclusive distribution partnership with SCI. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses increased $336,083, or 12%, to $3,240,650 for Twelve Months 2008 from $2,904,567 for Twelve Months 2007. Policyholder benefits increased $124,900, primarily driven by growth in net earned premiums from our domestic and international service contract and preneed businesses, combined with unfavorable loss experience in a credit life product in Brazil and unfavorable loss experience in the UK market driven by higher unemployment rates. Selling, underwriting and general expenses increased $211,183. Commissions, taxes, licenses and fees, of which amortization of DAC is a component, increased $133,263, primarily due to an increase in the overall commission rates caused by the change in business mix. This was evidenced by higher earnings in our service contract business, which has higher commission rates, compared to the lower commission rates on the decreasing domestic credit business. In addition, contributing to the increase was approximately $14,000 of income recorded in Twelve Months 2007 from our completed client commission reconciliation project and a charge to commissions expense related to our decision to exit the Denmark market in Fourth Quarter 2008. General expenses increased $68,284, partially due to higher expenses associated with the growth of the domestic service contract business as well as higher expenses associated with continued investment in international expansion and increased expenses from acquisitions made during the latter part of 2007 through end of 2008. Additionally, expenses increased due to a receivable charge of $9,632 resulting from client bankruptcies and a clients announcement of a court ordered liquidation of assets. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2006 Net Income Segment net income decreased $54,972, or 28%, to $143,921 for Twelve Months 2007 from $198,893 for Twelve Months 2006. The decrease was primarily due to a legal settlement of $40,500 (after tax) and fee income of $5,041 (after tax), from a closed block of extended service contract business, both recognized in the prior year. Absent these items, net income declined $9,431 in 2007 compared with 2006 primarily as a result of continued investments made to support the segments international expansion as well as a client related settlement expense of $3,431 (after tax). The results also included $6,560 (after tax) of unfavorable loss experience due to a claims backlog reported by a client and a resulting DAC write off in a credit life product in Brazil, which has since been re priced for some clients and discontinued for other clients. These declines were partially offset by an increase of $8,817 (after tax) in net investment income from real estate partnerships, the receipt of $3,510 (after tax) of contract settlement fees related to the sale of marketing rights for the independent U.S. preneed business, and $9,144 (after tax) of income stemming from our completed clients commission reconciliation project. 67 Table of Contents Total Revenues Total revenues increased $131,121, or 4%, to $3,116,987 for Twelve Months 2007 from $2,985,866 for Twelve Months 2006. This increase was due to an increase in net earned premiums and other considerations of $158,840, primarily attributable to growth in our domestic and international extended service contract business as well as growth in our preneed business, mainly due to the acquisition of Mayflower National Life Insurance Company (Mayflower) during 2007. These increases were partially offset by the decrease in net earned premiums from the continued runoff of our domestic credit insurance business. The increase in revenues was also due to an increase in net investment income of $34,821, or 9%, primarily due to an increase in investment income from real estate joint venture partnerships of $13,000 and higher average invested assets. Fees and other income decreased $62,541, or 28%, primarily attributable to one time amounts totaling $70,056 due to a legal settlement and income from a closed block of extended service contract business, both recognized in the prior year. Absent these transactions, Assurant Solutions fee income increased $7,515, or 5%, primarily driven by continued growth of our extended service contract business due to acquisitions and $5,400 from the sale of the marketing rights of the independent U.S. preneed business. These increases were partially offset by the loss of a debt deferment client. We experienced gross written premium growth in most of our core product lines, with the exception of our domestic credit insurance and preneed businesses. Gross written premiums from our international credit business increased $153,797 primarily as a result of growth in Canada from existing clients. This growth was primarily due to increased marketing efforts and strong performance from clients which lead to greater outstanding credit card balances. Gross written premiums in our international service contract business increased $80,783, mainly due to increased premiums from existing clients and greater international penetration, which is consistent with our strategic international expansion plan. Gross written premiums in our domestic service contract business increased $227,460 due to the addition of new clients and growth generated from existing clients. Gross written premiums from our domestic credit insurance business decreased $57,816 due to the continued runoff of this product line and the loss of a client. We experienced a decrease of $37,720 in our preneed business due to the sale of the U.S. Independent distribution channel, however, this was partially offset by growth in the business from the Mayflower acquisition. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses increased $216,021, or 8%, to $2,904,567 for Twelve Months 2007 from $2,688,546 for Twelve Months 2006. This increase was primarily due to an increase in selling, underwriting and general expenses of $140,933. Commissions, taxes, licenses and fees, of which amortization of DAC is a component, increased $123,846 primarily due to the overall commission rate increases caused by the change in the mix of business as evidenced by our growing service contract business, which has higher commission rates compared to the lower commission rates on the decreasing domestic credit business. Additionally, we had unfavorable loss experience due to a claims backlog reported by a client and a resulting DAC write off in a credit life product in Brazil, which has since been repriced for some clients and discontinued for other clients. Partially offsetting these increases was income stemming from our completed client commission reconciliation project. General expenses increased $17,087 due to the continued investment in international expansion as well as costs associated with growth of the domestic service contract business. Policyholder benefits increased $75,088 primarily driven by growth in our international and domestic service contract businesses. This was partially offset by decreased policyholder benefits resulting from the runoff of domestic credit insurance and the terminated accidental death business. 68 Table of Contents Assurant Specialty Property Overview The table below presents information regarding Assurant Specialty Propertys segment results of operations: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Revenues: Net earned premiums and other considerations $ 2,048,238 $ 1,682,266 $ 1,208,311 Net investment income 123,043 100,210 74,501 Fees and other income 50,000 51,256 49,424 Total revenues 2,221,281 1,833,732 1,332,236 Benefits, losses and expenses: Policyholder benefits 785,403 548,873 408,721 Selling, underwriting and general expenses 817,848 701,958 553,452 Total benefits, losses and expenses 1,603,251 1,250,831 962,173 Segment income before provision for income tax 618,030 582,901 370,063 Provision for income taxes 212,827 203,661 128,942 Segment net income $ 405,203 $ 379,240 $ 241,121 Net earned premiums and other considerations by major product groupings: Homeowners (creditor placed and voluntary) $ 1,471,012 $ 1,188,090 $ 753,169 Manufactured housing (creditor placed and voluntary) 225,209 209,104 214,461 Other (1) 352,017 285,072 240,681 Total $ 2,048,238 $ 1,682,266 $ 1,208,311 Ratios: Loss ratio (2) 38.3 % 32.6 % 33.8 % Expense ratio (3) 39.0 % 40.5 % 44.0 % Combined ratio (4) 76.4 % 72.2 % 76.5 % (1) This primarily includes flood, miscellaneous specialty property and renters insurance products. (2) The loss ratio is equal to policyholder benefits divided by net earned premiums and other considerations. (3) The expense ratio is equal to selling, underwriting and general expenses divided by net earned premiums and other considerations and fees and other income. (4) The combined ratio is equal to total benefits, losses and expenses divided by net earned premiums and other considerations and fees and other income. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2007 Net Income Segment net income increased $25,963, or 7%, to $405,203 for Twelve Months 2008 from $379,240 for Twelve Months 2007. The increase in net income is primarily due to higher net earned premiums from our creditor placed homeowners insurance and our ability to leverage the benefits of scale. Net income also improved due to an increase in net investment income of $14,841 (after tax) as a result of higher average invested assets resulting from the continued growth of the business. Net income for Twelve Months 2008 increased despite $86,200 (after tax), net of reinsurance, of losses from hurricanes Gustav and Ike and $8,600 (after tax) in catastrophe reinsurance reinstatement premiums. In addition, losses from California wildfires for Twelve Months 2008 were $17,115 (after tax) less than in Twelve Months 2007. 69 Table of Contents Total Revenues Total revenues increased $387,549, or 21%, to $2,221,281 for Twelve Months 2008 from $1,833,732 for Twelve Months 2007. The increase in revenues is primarily due to increased net earned premiums of $365,972, or 22%. The increase is attributable to the growth of creditor placed homeowners insurance which was primarily driven by an increase in average insured value of properties and increased percentage of policies placed per loans tracked. Partially offsetting these factors was a net decrease in tracked loans due to continued market consolidation, and an overall decline in sub prime loans. Also, net investment income increased $22,833, or 23% in Twelve Months 2008 compared to Twelve Months 2007, due to higher average invested assets. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses increased $352,420, or 28%, to $1,603,251 for Twelve Months 2008 from $1,250,831 for Twelve Months 2007. This increase was due to an increase in policyholder benefits of $236,530 and higher selling, underwriting, and general expenses of $115,890. The increase in policyholder benefits is primarily attributable to losses incurred relating to hurricanes Gustav and Ike of $132,600, net of reinsurance, and corresponding growth in creditor placed homeowners insurance. This was partially offset by $26,331 of lower losses from California wildfires in Twelve Months 2008 compared with Twelve Months 2007. The combined ratio increased to 76.4% from 72.2% due to the losses from hurricanes Gustav and Ike, partially offset by our continued ability to leverage benefit of scale. Commissions, taxes, licenses and fees increased $67,435, primarily due to the associated increase in net earned premiums. General expenses increased $48,455 primarily due to increases in employment related expenses consistent with business growth. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2006 Net Income Segment net income increased $138,119, or 57%, to $379,240 for Twelve Months 2007 from $241,121 for Twelve Months 2006. This increase in net income was primarily due to higher net earned premiums from continued growth in our creditor placed homeowners insurance business and continued excellent combined ratios driven by mild weather and our ability to leverage the benefits of scale. Net income also improved due to an increase of $16,711 (after tax) in net investment income as a result of higher average invested assets resulting from the continued growth of the business. These increases were partially offset by an increase in net catastrophe losses of $17,770 (after tax). Total Revenues Total revenues increased $501,496, or 38%, to $1,833,732 for Twelve Months 2007 from $1,332,236 for Twelve Months 2006. The increase in revenues is mainly due to increased net earned premiums of $473,955, or 39%. The increase is attributable to the growth of the creditor placed homeowners insurance, through both organic growth and acquisitions. The organic growth was primarily driven by the increase in average insured value for property and increased policy placement rates. The increase in net earned premiums was partially offset by increased catastrophe reinsurance premiums of $54,000. Also, net investment income increased $25,709 or 35%, due to higher average invested assets. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses increased $288,658, or 30%, to $1,250,831 for Twelve Months 2007 from $962,173 for Twelve Months 2006. This increase was due to an increase in policyholder benefits of $140,152 and higher selling, underwriting, and general expenses of $148,506. The combined ratio improved to 72.2% from 76.5% primarily due to the benefits of scale and favorable loss experience. The increase in policyholder benefits is primarily attributable to the corresponding growth in creditor placed homeowners insurance, as well as $27,300 of higher net catastrophe losses mainly attributable to the California wildfires. The increase is also the result of $10,500 of lower National Flood Insurance Program reimbursements in 2007, compared with 2006, which are recorded against policyholder benefits and an $8,500 favorable settlement with 70 Table of Contents two former clients in 2006. These policyholder benefit increases were partially offset by favorable loss experience, absent catastrophe losses. Commissions, taxes, licenses and fees, of which amortization of DAC is a component, increased $89,445, primarily due to the associated increase in net earned premiums. General expenses increased $59,061 due primarily to increases in employment related expenses consistent with business growth and additional operating expenses associated with the Safeco Financial Institution Services acquisition. Assurant Health Overview The table below presents information regarding Assurant Healths segment results of operations: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Revenues: Net earned premiums and other considerations $ 1,951,955 $ 2,050,280 $ 2,083,957 Net investment income 57,464 66,634 75,215 Fees and other income 38,917 40,583 41,560 Total revenues 2,048,336 2,157,497 2,200,732 Benefits, losses and expenses: Policyholder benefits 1,258,188 1,295,441 1,300,817 Selling, underwriting and general expenses 604,605 627,348 641,328 Total benefits, losses and expenses 1,862,793 1,922,789 1,942,145 Segment income before provision for income tax 185,543 234,708 258,587 Provision for income taxes 65,289 82,965 90,668 Segment net income $ 120,254 $ 151,743 $ 167,919 Net earned premiums and other considerations: Individual Markets: Individual medical $ 1,276,743 $ 1,283,321 $ 1,213,677 Short term medical 101,435 96,837 101,454 Subtotal 1,378,178 1,380,158 1,315,131 Small employer group: 573,777 670,122 768,826 Total $ 1,951,955 $ 2,050,280 $ 2,083,957 Membership by product line: Individual Markets: Individual medical 578 619 641 Short term medical 92 87 87 Subtotal 670 706 728 Small employer group: 131 165 207 Total 801 871 935 Ratios: Loss ratio (1) 64.5 % 63.2 % 62.4 % Expense ratio (2) 30.4 % 30.0 % 30.2 % Combined ratio (3) 93.6 % 92.0 % 91.4 % (1) The loss ratio is equal to policyholder benefits divided by net earned premiums and other considerations. (2) The expense ratio is equal to selling, underwriting and general expenses divided by net earned premiums and other considerations and fees and other income. (3) The combined ratio is equal to total benefits, losses and expenses divided by net earned premiums and other considerations and fees and other income. 71 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2007 Net Income Segment net income decreased $31,489, or 21%, to $120,254 for Twelve Months 2008 from $151,743 for Twelve Months 2007. The decrease is primarily attributable to less favorable results in the individual medical business and the continuing decline in small employer group net earned premiums. Total Revenues Total revenues decreased $109,161, or 5%, to $2,048,336 for Twelve Months 2008 from $2,157,497 for Twelve Months 2007. Net earned premiums and other considerations from our individual medical business decreased $6,578, or less than 1%, due to reduced membership, partially offset by premium rate increases. Net earned premiums and other considerations from our small employer group business decreased $96,345, or 14%, due to a decline in members, partially offset by premium rate increases. The decline in small employer group members is due to increased competition and our adherence to strict underwriting guidelines. Also, net investment income decreased $9,170 due to lower investment income from real estate joint venture partnerships and lower average invested assets. The decrease in real estate joint venture partnership income is due to greater sales of underlying properties in Twelve Months 2007 compared with Twelve Months 2008 given the more favorable real estate market conditions in 2007. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses decreased $59,996, or 3%, to $1,862,793 for Twelve Months 2008 from $1,922,789 for Twelve Months 2007. Policyholder benefits decreased $37,253, or 3%, primarily due to the decrease in small employer group business in Twelve Months 2008 compared to Twelve Months 2007. Although policyholder benefits decreased, the benefit loss ratio increased to 64.5% from 63.2%. The increase in the benefit loss ratio was primarily due to higher claims experience on individual medical business coupled with a non proportionate decline in net earned premiums. Our small employer group business had more favorable loss experience in Twelve Months 2008 compared to Twelve Months 2007. Selling, underwriting and general expenses decreased $22,743, or 4%, primarily due to lower commission expenses for both individual medical and small employer group business associated with the decline in net earned premium. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2006 Net Income Segment net income decreased $16,176, or 10%, to $151,743 for Twelve Months 2007 from $167,919 for Twelve Months 2006. The decrease in segment net income was primarily attributable to our small employer group business which experienced continuing declines in net earned premiums and higher claim experience. Also contributing to the decline was lower net investment income, due to lower investment income from real estate joint venture partnerships and lower average invested assets. Total Revenues Total revenues decreased $43,235, or 2%, to $2,157,497 for Twelve Months 2007 from $2,200,732 for Twelve Months 2006. Net earned premiums and other considerations from our individual medical business, our targeted growth area, increased $69,644, or 6%, due to new member sales and higher premiums per member. However, this market has become increasingly competitive as established players and new regional entrants are more aggressively targeting this growing segment of the health insurance market. Net earned premiums and other considerations from our small employer group business decreased $98,705, or 13%, due to a decline in members, partially offset by premium rate increases. The decline in small employer group members is due to increased competition and our adherence to strict underwriting guidelines. Also, net investment income decreased $8,581 due to lower real estate investment income from joint venture partnerships and lower average invested assets. 72 Table of Contents Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses decreased $19,356, or 1%, to $1,922,789 for Twelve Months 2007 from $1,942,145 for Twelve Months 2006. Policyholder benefits decreased $5,376, or less than 1%. This decrease is consistent with the decrease in net earned premiums. Our small employer group business had less favorable loss experience in 2007 compared with 2006. This was partially offset by our individual medical business which had favorable loss experience. Selling, underwriting and general expenses decreased $13,980, or 2%, primarily due to lower staffing costs and externally contracted services. Assurant Employee Benefits Overview The table below presents information regarding Assurant Employee Benefits segment results of operations: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Revenues: Net earned premiums and other considerations $ 1,111,748 $ 1,144,739 $ 1,179,902 Net investment income 147,027 166,955 158,525 Fees and other income 26,139 23,997 27,541 Total revenues 1,284,914 1,335,691 1,365,968 Benefits, losses and expenses: Policyholder benefits 775,684 790,570 827,208 Selling, underwriting and general expenses 400,816 411,868 410,446 Total benefits, losses and expenses 1,176,500 1,202,438 1,237,654 Segment income before provision for income tax 108,414 133,253 128,314 Provision for income taxes 37,857 46,232 44,711 Segment net income $ 70,557 $ 87,021 $ 83,603 Ratios: Loss ratio (1) 69.8 % 69.1 % 70.1 % Expense ratio (2) 35.2 % 35.2 % 34. 0 % Net earned premiums and other considerations: By major product groupings: Group dental $ 435,115 $ 412,810 $ 428,218 Group disability single premiums for closed blocks (3) 11,447 49,456 46,313 All other group disability 459,208 467,490 480,924 Group life 205,978 214,983 224,447 Total $ 1,111,748 $ 1,144,739 $ 1,179,902 (1) The loss ratio is equal to policyholder benefits divided by net earned premiums and other considerations. (2) The expense ratio is equal to selling, underwriting and general expenses divided by net earned premiums and other considerations and fees and other income. (3) This represents single premium on closed blocks of group disability business. For closed blocks of business we receive a single, upfront premium and in turn we record a virtually equal amount of claim reserves. We then manage the claims using our claim management practices. 73 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2007 Net Income Segment net income decreased 19% to $70,557 for Twelve Months 2008 from $87,021 for Twelve Months 2007. The decrease in net income was primarily driven by a decrease in net investment income from real estate joint venture partnerships of $9,192 (after tax) and less favorable dental experience. The decrease in real estate joint venture partnership income is due to greater sales of underlying properties in Twelve Months 2007 compared with Twelve Months 2008 given the more favorable real estate market conditions during 2007. Twelve Months 2008 also included a reserve release of $3,485 (after tax) due to favorable reserve adequacy studies. Total Revenues Total revenues decreased 4% to $1,284,914 for Twelve Months 2008 from $1,335,691 for Twelve Months 2007. Excluding single premiums on closed blocks of business, net earned premiums and other considerations increased $5,018 as we have begun to see overall growth in net earned premiums, specifically in our small case business. Net investment income decreased $19,928 primarily because Twelve Months 2007 included $15,436 in real estate joint venture partnership investment income while Twelve Months 2008 included $1,294. Also contributing to the decrease in net investment income during Twelve Months 2008 were lower average invested assets and slightly lower yields. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses decreased 2% to $1,176,500 for Twelve Months 2008 from $1,202,438 for Twelve Months 2007. The decrease was driven by favorable disability experience during 2008 due to continued good incidence, and recoveries. Dental experience is less favorable when compared to 2007, while life experience in 2008 was consistent with 2007. We completed our annual reserve studies in the fourth quarter of 2008 which led to a release of $5,362, resulting in a reduction to benefits. The expense ratio remained consistent at 35.2%. Excluding the single premiums on closed blocks of business, the expense ratio decreased to 35.6% from 36.8% due to a decrease in credited interest rates paid on deposit funds along with a focus on expense management. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2006 Net Income Segment net income increased $3,418 or 4% to $87,021 for Twelve Months 2007 from $83,603 for Twelve Months 2006. The increase in net income was primarily driven by additional net investment income of $5,479 (after tax) in 2007 compared with 2006 and continued favorable loss experience, in our group disability business. Partially offsetting these increases were slightly less favorable results in our group life and group dental business. Total Revenues Total revenues decreased $30,277 or 2% to $1,335,691 for Twelve Months 2007 from $1,365,968 for Twelve Months 2006. The decrease was primarily a result of lower persistency of large cases over the past several quarters, as the business continues to implement its small case strategy. The decrease in net earned premiums was partially offset by an increase in net investment income of $8,429, or 5%, primarily due to an increase in net investment income from real estate joint venture partnerships. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses decreased $35,216 or 3% to $1,202,438 for the Twelve Months 2007 from $1,237,654 for the Twelve Months 2006. The loss ratio decreased to 69.1% in 2007 from 70.1% in 2006. Our group disability business benefited from favorable loss experience in the current year, driven by continued 74 Table of Contents good incidence and favorable disability recovery rates, which includes claimants who return to work. Group life and group dental experienced slightly less favorable results in 2007 than 2006. The expense ratio increased to 35.2% in 2007 from 34.0% in 2006, due to a decline in net earned premiums as the total amount of expenses remained relatively flat year over year. Corporate and Other The table below presents information regarding the Corporate and Other segments results of operations: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Revenues: Net investment income $ 26,198 $ 37,943 $ 35,935 Net realized (losses) gains on investments (428,679 ) (62,220 ) 111,865 Amortization of deferred gains on disposal of businesses 29,412 33,139 37,300 Fees and other income 3,236 746 682 Total revenues (369,833 ) 9,608 185,782 Benefits, losses and expenses: Policyholder benefits 1,114 3,969 5 Selling, underwriting and general expenses 92,689 96,703 83,076 Interest expense 60,953 61,178 61,243 Total benefits, losses and expenses 154,756 161,850 144,324 Segment (loss) income before (benefit) provision for income taxes (524,589 ) (152,242 ) 41,458 (Benefit) provision for income taxes (264,188 ) (44,063 ) 17,123 Segment net (loss) income $ (260,401 ) $ (108,179 ) $ 24,335 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2007 Net Loss Segment net loss increased $152,222, or 141%, to $(260,401) for Twelve Months 2008 compared with $(108,179) for Twelve Months 2007. Segment net loss increased mainly due to additional realized losses on investments of $238,198 (after tax) and a decline of $7,634 (after tax) in net investment income. These declines in Twelve Months 2008 were partially offset by a $86,928 gain (after tax) and related tax benefit associated with the sale of UFLIC during 2008, and $3,859 (after tax) of income from the reimbursement of certain SEC investigation expenses from our director and executive officer (D&O) insurance coverage. In addition, Twelve Months 2007 included a $1,856 (after tax) reserve strengthening charge for asbestos and environmental liabilities related to certain previously discontinued products. Total Revenues Total revenues decreased $379,441, to $(369,833) for Twelve Months 2008 compared with $9,608 for Twelve Months 2007. The decline in revenues was mainly due to an additional $366,459 of net realized losses on investments in Twelve Months 2008 compared with Twelve Months 2007. Also, net investment income declined $11,745 as a result of lower short term interest rates and lower average invested assets. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total expenses decreased $7,094 or 4%, to $154,756 for Twelve Months 2008 compared with $161,850 for Twelve Months 2007. The decrease in expenses was mainly due to reimbursements of $5,938 through our D&O insurance coverage for certain SEC investigation related expenses in Twelve Months 2008. Twelve Months 2007 included a $2,580 reserve strengthening charge for asbestos and environmental liabilities related to certain previously discontinued products. 75 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 Net (Loss) Income Segment results decreased $132,514 to a net loss of $(108,179) for the Twelve Months 2007 from net income of $24,335 for the Twelve Months 2006. This deterioration was mainly due to net realized losses on investments of $40,443, (after tax) which includes $31,320 (after tax) of write downs of other than temporary declines in our investment portfolio in 2007 compared with 2006 which had net realized gains on investments of $72,712 (after tax) including a gain of $63,900 (after tax) from the sale of our investment in PHCS. Also, results were negatively impacted by $2,580 (after tax) asbestos and environmental reserve increase related to discontinued products, costs related to an ongoing SEC investigation regarding certain loss mitigation products, additional externally contracted services and tax expense related to the change in certain tax liabilities. In addition, there was a continued decline in the amortization of deferred gains on disposal of businesses due to continued runoff of the businesses sold and a reduction in net investment income due to lower investment income from real estate joint venture in 2006. Total Revenues Total revenues decreased $176,174, or 95%, to $9,608 for the Twelve Months 2007 from $185,782 for the Twelve Months 2006. The decline was mainly due to the net realized losses on investments in 2007 compared with net realized gains on investments in 2006, discussed above. In addition, amortization of deferred gains on disposal of businesses declined $4,161, in connection with the runoff of the businesses sold and net investment income decreased due to $4,856 of investment income in 2006 from a real estate joint venture. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses increased $17,526, or 12%, to $161,850 for the Twelve Months 2007 from $144,324 for the Twelve Months 2006. This decline was primarily due to $11,503 of expenses related to an ongoing SEC investigation regarding certain loss mitigation products, an additional $8,730 of externally contracted services for various ongoing projects and a $3,969 asbestos and environmental reserve increase related to discontinued products. These negative variances were partially offset by a $3,343 reduction in compensation expenses. Investments The following tables show the cost or amortized cost, gross unrealized gains and losses and fair value of our fixed maturity and equity securities as of the dates indicated: December 31, 2008 Cost orAmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses Fair Value Fixed maturity securities: United States Government and government agencies and authorities $ 136,725 $ 13,784 $ (22 ) $ 150,487 States, municipalities and political subdivisions 874,134 14,122 (14,676 ) 873,580 Foreign governments 503,620 19,391 (9,693 ) 513,318 Public utilities 1,162,447 23,868 (59,604 ) 1,126,711 Mortgage backed 981,275 29,887 (46,877 ) 964,285 All other corporate 5,546,027 79,407 (662,549 ) 4,962,885 Total fixed maturity securities $ 9,204,228 $ 180,459 $ (793,421 ) $ 8,591,266 Equity securities: Industrial, miscellaneous and all other $ 5,384 $ 283 $ (1,618 ) $ 4,049 Non sinking fund preferred stocks 571,972 11,114 (112,262 ) 470,824 Total equity securities $ 577,356 $ 11,397 $ (113,880 ) $ 474,873 76 Table of Contents December 31, 2007 Cost orAmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses Fair Value Fixed maturity securities: United States Government and government agencies and authorities $ 287,064 $ 10,236 $ (22 ) $ 297,278 States, municipalities and political subdivisions 630,196 16,931 (578 ) 646,549 Foreign governments 680,097 28,815 (4,666 ) 704,246 Public utilities 1,123,043 32,356 (10,006 ) 1,145,393 Mortgage backed 1,052,664 12,644 (6,716 ) 1,058,592 All other corporate 6,253,291 143,103 (122,037 ) 6,274,357 Total fixed maturity securities $ 10,026,355 $ 244,085 $ (144,025 ) $ 10,126,415 Equity securities: Industrial, miscellaneous and all other $ 21,193 $ 1,283 $ $ 22,476 Non sinking fund preferred stocks 681,505 3,830 (71,810 ) 613,525 Total equity securities $ 702,698 $ 5,113 $ (71,810 ) $ 636,001 The industry categories that comprise our All other corporate and Public Utilities fixed maturity securities captions above as of the dates indicated are: December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Fair Value NetUnrealized(Loss) Gain Fair Value NetUnrealizedGain(Loss) Industry Category: Consumer cyclical $ 891,923 $ (112,339 ) $ 984,229 $ 664 Consumer non cyclical 302,847 (12,697 ) 364,006 6,745 Energy 604,332 (65,668 ) 730,301 30,042 Financials 1,671,617 (228,940 ) 2,274,551 (28,004 ) Health care 290,201 (15,594 ) 383,799 2,302 Industrials 859,641 (100,011 ) 1,000,547 12,135 Materials 220,934 (41,477 ) 300,447 (257 ) Technology 124,490 (6,579 ) 189,095 2,165 Telecommunications 367,051 (11,610 ) 403,953 16,006 Utilities 750,551 (23,792 ) 730,391 6,471 Other corporate 374 11 747 1 Collaterized debt obligations 5,635 (182 ) 57,684 (4,854 ) Total all other corporate and public utilities $ 6,089,596 $ (618,878 ) $ 7,419,750 $ 43,416 The following table shows the carrying value of our investments by type of security as of the dates indicated: December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Fixed maturity securities $ 8,591,266 71 % $ 10,126,415 73 % Equity securities 474,873 4 % 636,001 5 % Commercial mortgage loans on real estate 1,506,694 12 % 1,433,626 10 % Policy loans 58,096 1 % 57,107 1 % Short term investments 703,402 6 % 410,878 3 % Collateral held under securities lending 234,027 2 % 541,650 4 % Other investments 498,434 4 % 541,474 4 % Total investments $ 12,066,792 100 % $ 13,747,151 100 % 77 Table of Contents The following table shows the credit quality of our fixed maturity securities portfolio as of the dates indicated: As of Fixed Maturity Securities by Credit Quality (Fair Value) December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Aaa / Aa / A $ 5,706,913 66.4 % $ 6,917,249 68.3 % Baa 2,364,693 27.5 % 2,570,640 25.4 % Ba 402,942 4.7 % 492,822 4.9 % B and lower 116,718 1.4 % 145,704 1.4 % Total $ 8,591,266 100 % $ 10,126,415 100.0 % Net unrealized losses on fixed maturity securities increased $713,022 to December 31, 2008 from December 31, 2007. The increase in net unrealized losses on fixed maturity securities was primarily due to widening credit spreads across many sectors primarily during the third and fourth quarters of 2008. Net unrealized losses on equity securities increased $35,786 from December 31, 2007 to December 31, 2008. The increase was primarily due to credit spreads widening in the preferred stock sector. Major categories of net investment income were as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Fixed maturity securities $ 582,869 $ 564,369 $ 517,744 Equity securities 47,618 47,264 49,779 Commercial mortgage loans on real estate 95,013 91,702 90,000 Policy loans 3,717 3,967 3,669 Short term investments 16,256 17,327 11,575 Other investments 27,395 59,998 57,836 Cash and cash equivalents 26,990 40,026 30,836 Total investment income 799,858 824,653 761,439 Investment expenses (25,511 ) (25,580 ) (24,753 ) Net investment income $ 774,347 $ 799,073 $ 736,686 Net investment income decreased $24,726, or 3%, to $774,347 at December 31, 2008 from $799,073 at December 31, 2007. The decrease is due to lower distributions from real estate joint venture partnerships and lower yields. The decrease in investment income from real estate joint venture partnerships is due to greater sales of underlying properties in 2007 compared with 2008 given the more favorable real estate market conditions in 2007. Additionally, the yield on average invested assets and cash and cash equivalents, which excludes investment income from real estate partnerships, was 5.50% in 2008 compared to 5.69% in 2007. Net investment income increased $62,387, or 8%, to $799,073 at December 31, 2007 from $736,686 at December 31, 2006. The increase is primarily the result of an increase in average invested assets and $37,173 of investment income from real estate joint venture partnerships in 2007 compared to $18,578 in 2006. The yield on average invested assets and cash and cash equivalents was 5.69% in 2007 compared to 5.67% in 2006. Over the last six months of 2007 and during 2008 the fixed maturity and equity security markets experienced significant volatility. This volatility has primarily been due to declines in the housing market, credit availability, as well as a general economic slowdown. As a result, certain securities directly exposed to these factors have had significant market value declines. 78 Table of Contents In connection with this volatility, we recorded net realized losses, including other than temporary impairments, in the statement of operations as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Net realized (losses) gains related to sales: Fixed maturity securities $ (22,701 ) $ (13,884 ) $ 663 Equity securities (47,845 ) (10,767 ) (3,742 ) Commercial mortgage loans on real estate 326 (532 ) 15,178 Other investments (4,819 ) 11,147 100,576 (1) Collateral held under securities lending (13,487 ) Total net realized (losses) gains related to sales (88,526 ) (14,036 ) 112,675 Net realized losses related to other than temporary impairments: Fixed maturity securities (201,296 ) (31,703 ) (810 ) Equity securities (133,333 ) (16,481 ) Other investments (5,524 ) Total net realized losses related to other than temporary impairments (340,153 ) (48,184 ) (810 ) Total net realized (losses) gains $ (428,679 ) $ (62,220 ) $ 111,865 (1) Includes a $98,342 realized gain relating to the sale of PHCS. The industry breakdown of our 2008 other than temporary impairments were as follows: Financial $ 144,380 Agency/Sovereign Government 97,667 Collateralized debt obligations 36,418 Sub prime mortgage backed securities 30,200 Consumer cyclical 20,021 Materials 6,541 All other 4,926 Total other than temporary impairments $ 340,153 The top 10 creditors that are included in our 2008 other than temporary impairments were as follow: Federal National Mortgage Association $ 49,932 Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 47,735 American International Group 23,658 PNC Financial Services * 17,923 Lehman Brothers Holding Inc. 13,290 CIT Group, Inc. 11,538 Washington Mutual Inc. 11,339 Avis Budget Group, Inc. 9,966 Istar Financial Inc. 8,598 Suntrust Banks, Inc. 6,951 All other creditors 72,605 Sub total 273,535 Collateralized debt obligations 36,418 Sub prime mortgage backed securities 30,200 Total other than temporary impairments $ 340,153 * Includes $12,200 of losses associated with National City Corporation prior to their acquisition by PNC Financial Services. 79 Table of Contents We regularly monitor our investment portfolio to ensure that investments that may be other than temporarily impaired are identified in a timely fashion, properly valued, and any impairments are charged against earnings in the proper period. The determination that a security has incurred an other than temporary decline in value requires the judgment of management. Assessment factors include, but are not limited to, the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than cost, the financial condition and rating of the issuer, whether any collateral is held, and the intent and ability of the Company to retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for recovery. Inherently, there are risks and uncertainties involved in making these judgments. Changes in circumstances and critical assumptions such as a continued weak economy, a more pronounced economic downturn or unforeseen events which affect one or more companies, industry sectors, or countries could result in additional impairments in future periods for other than temporary declines in value. Any security whose price decrease is deemed other than temporary is written down to its then current market level with the amount of the impairment reported as a realized loss in that period. Realized gains and losses on sales of investments are recognized on the specific identification basis. When we determine that there is an other than temporary impairment, we write down the value of the security to the current market value, which reduces the cost basis. In periods subsequent to the recognition of an other than temporary impairment, we generally accrete into net investment income the discount (or amortize the reduced premium) resulting from the reduction in cost basis, based upon the amount and timing of the expected future cash flows over the remaining life of the security. The investment category and duration of our gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity securities and equity securities at December 31, 2008 were as follows: Less than 12 months 12 Months or More Total Fair Value UnrealizedLosses Fair Value UnrealizedLosses Fair Value UnrealizedLosses Fixed maturity securities: United States Government and government agencies and authorities $ 983 $ (22 ) $ $ $ 983 $ (22 ) States, municipalities and political subdivisions 361,383 (12,397 ) 27,545 (2,279 ) 388,928 (14,676 ) Foreign governments 117,133 (5,853 ) 28,478 (3,840 ) 145,611 (9,693 ) Public utilities 474,251 (34,099 ) 185,491 (25,505 ) 659,742 (59,604 ) Mortgage backed 155,781 (27,512 ) 84,046 (19,365 ) 239,827 (46,877 ) All other corporate 2,430,886 (346,331 ) 1,140,375 (316,218 ) 3,571,261 (662,549 ) Total fixed maturity securities $ 3,540,417 $ (426,214 ) $ 1,465,935 $ (367,207 ) $ 5,006,352 $ (793,421 ) Equity securities: Industrial, miscellaneous and all other $ 3,366 $ (1,618 ) $ $ $ 3,366 $ (1,618 ) Non sinking fund preferred stocks 171,637 (49,291 ) 212,669 (62,971 ) 384,306 (112,262 ) Total equity securities $ 175,003 $ (50,909 ) $ 212,669 $ (62,971 ) $ 387,672 $ (113,880 ) 80 Table of Contents The investment category and duration of our gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity securities and equity securities at December 31, 2007 were as follows: Less than 12 months 12 Months or More Total Fair Value UnrealizedLosses Fair Value UnrealizedLosses Fair Value UnrealizedLosses Fixed maturity securities: United States Government and government agencies and authorities $ 1,108 $ (1 ) $ 10,189 $ (21 ) $ 11,297 $ (22 ) States, municipalities and political subdivisions 98,544 (525 ) 6,031 (53 ) 104,575 (578 ) Foreign governments 99,985 (2,966 ) 47,285 (1,700 ) 147,270 (4,666 ) Public utilities 300,588 (5,887 ) 113,311 (4,119 ) 413,899 (10,006 ) Mortgage backed 133,557 (3,699 ) 240,273 (3,017 ) 373,830 (6,716 ) All other corporate 2,111,222 (89,989 ) 683,766 (32,048 ) 2,794,988 (122,037 ) Total fixed maturity securities $ 2,745,004 $ (103,067 ) $ 1,100,855 $ (40,958 ) $ 3,845,859 $ (144,025 ) Equity securities: Non sinking fund preferred stocks $ 399,160 $ (58,427 ) $ 106,487 $ (13,383 ) $ 505,647 $ (71,810 ) The total unrealized losses represent less than 17% and 5% of the aggregate fair value of the related securities at December 31, 2008 and 2007. Approximately 53% and 75% of these unrealized losses have been in a continuous loss position for less than twelve months in 2008 and 2007, respectively. The total unrealized losses are comprised of 1,409 and 1,282 individual securities in 2008 and 2007, respectively. At December 31, 2008, 39%, 14% and 13% of the unrealized losses for fixed maturity and equity securities were concentrated in the financial, consumer cyclical and industrial industries, respectively, with no exposure to any single creditor in excess of 7%, 7% and 9%, of those industries respectively. The cost or amortized cost and fair value of available for sale fixed maturity securities in an unrealized loss position at December 31, 2008, by contractual maturity, is shown below: Cost or Amortized Cost Fair Value Due in one year or less $ 120,645 $ 117,653 Due after one year through five years 1,257,379 1,136,287 Due after five years through ten years 1,506,303 1,292,618 Due after ten years 2,628,742 2,219,967 Total 5,513,069 4,766,525 Mortgage backed securities 286,704 239,827 Total $ 5,799,773 $ 5,006,352 As of December 31, 2008, the Company owns $270,635 of securities guaranteed by financial guarantee insurance companies. Included in this amount were $226,266 of municipal securities whose credit rating was A+ with or without the financial guarantee. With the credit rating downgrades of the financial guarantee insurance companies in 2008, their financial guarantee is providing minimal or no value in the current market environment. 81 Table of Contents The following table represents our exposure to sub prime and related mortgages within our fixed maturity security portfolio as well as the current net unrealized loss position at December 31, 2008. MarketValue Portfolio (Loss)Gain Fixed maturity portfolio: Sub prime first lien mortgages $ 13,551 0.16 % $ (928 ) Second lien mortgages (including sub prime second lien mortgages) 8,838 0.10 % 407 Total exposure to sub prime collateral $ 22,389 0.26 % $ (521 ) The following table represents our exposure to sub prime and related mortgages within our fixed maturity portfolio as well as the current net unrealized loss position at December 31, 2007. MarketValue PercentageofPortfolio NetUnrealized(Loss)Gain Fixed maturity portfolio: Sub prime first lien mortgages $ 52,918 0.52 % $ (2,405 ) Second lien mortgages (including sub prime second lien mortgages) 24,644 0.25 % 91 Total exposure to sub prime collateral $ 77,562 0.77 % $ (2,314 ) At December 31, 2008 and 2007, approximately 2.3% and 7.6% of the mortgage backed holdings had exposure to sub prime mortgage collateral. This represented approximately 0.3% and 0.8% of the total fixed maturity portfolio and 0.1% and 1.6% of the total unrealized loss position at December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Of the securities with sub prime exposure, approximately 84% are rated as investment grade. We have no sub prime exposure to collateralized debt obligations as of December 31, 2008 and 2007. All mortgage backed securities, including those with sub prime exposure, are reviewed as part of the ongoing other than temporary impairment monitoring process. As required by FAS 157, the Company has identified and disclosed its financial assets in a fair value hierarchy, which consists of the following three levels: Level 1 inputs utilize quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Company has the ability to access. Financial assets and liabilities utilizing Level 1 inputs include certain U.S. mutual funds, money market funds, common stock and certain foreign securities. Level 2 inputs utilize other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset. Level 2 inputs include quoted prices for similar assets in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are not active and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable in the marketplace for the asset. The observable inputs are used in valuation models to calculate the fair value for the asset. Financial assets utilizing Level 2 inputs include corporate, municipal, foreign government and public utilities bonds, private placement bonds, U.S. Government and agency securities, mortgage and asset backed securities, preferred stocks and certain U.S. and foreign mutual funds. Level 3 inputs are unobservable but are significant to the fair value measurement for the asset, and include situations where there is little, if any, market activity for the asset. These inputs reflect managements own assumptions about the assumptions a market participant would use in pricing the asset. Financial assets utilizing Level 3 inputs include certain preferred stocks, corporate bonds and mortgage backed securities that were quoted by brokers that could not be corroborated by Level 2 inputs and derivatives. 82 Table of Contents A review of fair value hierarchy classifications is conducted on a quarterly basis. Changes in the observability of valuation inputs may result in a reclassification of levels for certain securities within the fair value hierarchy. The following table presents the Companys fair value hierarchy for those recurring basis assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2008. Financial Assets Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Fixed maturity securities $ 8,591,266 $ 2,398 $ 8,427,643 $ 161,225 Equity securities 474,873 3,165 (a) 455,352 16,356 Short term investments 703,402 611,460 91,942 Collateral held under securities lending 159,028 54,192 104,836 Other investments 239,605 56,296 (b) 176,285 (c) 7,024 (c) Cash equivalents 674,390 674,390 Other assets 7,080 7,080 Assets held in separate accounts 1,701,996 1,523,024 (a) 178,972 Total financial assets $ 12,551,640 $ 2,924,925 $ 9,435,030 $ 191,685 Financial Liabilities Other liabilities $ 56,296 $ 56,296 (b) $ $ (a) Mainly includes mutual fund investments (b) Comprised of Assurant Incentive Plan investments and related liability which are invested in mutual funds (c) Consists of invested assets associated with a modified coinsurance arrangement Level 1 and Level 2 securities are valued using various observable market inputs obtained from a pricing service. The pricing service prepares estimates of fair value measurements for our Level 2 securities using proprietary valuation models based on techniques such as matrix pricing which include observable market inputs. FAS 157 defines observable market inputs as the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed on market data obtained from sources independent of the Company. The extent of the use of each observable market input for a security depends on the type of security and the market conditions at the balance sheet date. Depending on the security, the priority of the use of observable market inputs may change as some observable market inputs may not be relevant or additional inputs may be necessary. The following observable market inputs, listed in the approximate order of priority, are utilized in the pricing evaluation of Level 2 securities: benchmark yields, reported trades, broker/dealer quotes, issuer spreads, two sided markets, benchmark securities, bids, offers and reference data. The pricing service also evaluates each security based on relevant market information including: relevant credit information, perceived market movements and sector news. Valuation models can change period to period, depending on the appropriate observable inputs that are available at the balance sheet date to price a security. When market observable inputs are unavailable, the remaining un priced securities are submitted to independent brokers who provide non binding broker quotes or are priced by other qualified sources and are categorized as Level 3 securities. Management uses the following criteria in order to determine that the market for a financial asset is inactive: The volume and level of trading activity in the asset have declined significantly from historical levels; The available prices vary significantly over time or among market participants; The prices are stale (i.e., not current); and The magnitude of bid ask spread. Illiquidity did not have a material impact in the fair value determination of the Companys financial assets. 83 Table of Contents The Company generally obtains one price for each financial asset. The Company performs a monthly analysis to assess if the evaluated prices represent a reasonable estimate of their fair value. This process involves quantitative and qualitative analysis and is overseen by investment and accounting professionals. Examples of procedures performed include, but are not limited to, initial and on going review of pricing service methodologies, review of the prices received from the pricing service, review of pricing statistics and trends, and comparison of prices for certain securities with two different appropriate price sources for reasonableness. As a result of this analysis, if the Company determines there is a more appropriate fair value based upon available market data, which happens infrequently, the price of a security is adjusted accordingly. The pricing service provides information to indicate which securities were priced using market observable inputs so that the Company can properly categorize our financial assets in the fair value hierarchy. Securities Lending The Company engages in transactions in which fixed maturity securities, especially bonds issued by the United States government, government agencies and authorities, and U.S. corporations, are loaned to select broker/dealers. Cash collateral, greater than or equal to 102% of the fair value of the securities lent plus accrued interest, is received in the form of cash and cash equivalents held by a custodian bank for the benefit of the Company. The use of the cash collateral received is unrestricted. The Company reinvests the cash collateral received, generally in investments which are designated as available for sale under FASB Statement No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities (FAS 115). The Company monitors the fair value of securities loaned and the collateral received, with additional collateral obtained as necessary. The Company is subject to the risk of loss to the extent there is a loss in the investment of cash collateral. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, our collateral held under securities lending, of which its use is unrestricted, was $234,027 and $541,650, respectively, while our liability to the borrower for collateral received was $256,506 and $541,650, respectively. The difference between the collateral held and obligations under securities lending as of December 31, 2008 is recorded as an unrealized loss and is included as part of accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income. The Company has proactively reduced the size of the program to mitigate counter party exposure during the third and fourth quarters of 2008. The Company includes the available for sale investments purchased with the cash collateral in its evaluation of other than temporary impairments. Cash proceeds that the Company receives as collateral for the securities it lends and subsequent repayment of the cash are regarded by the Company as cash flows from financing activities, since the cash received is considered a borrowing. Since the Company reinvests the cash collateral generally in investments which are designated as available for sale under FAS 115, the reinvestment is presented as cash flows from investing activities. Loss Protection and Capital Management As part of our overall risk and capital management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various business segments, including significant individual or catastrophic claims, to free up capital to enable us to write additional business. For those product lines where there is exposure to catastrophes, we closely monitor and manage the aggregate risk exposure by geographic area. We have entered into reinsurance treaties to manage exposure to these types of events. Under indemnity reinsurance transactions in which we are the ceding insurer, we remain liable for policy claims if the assuming company fails to meet its obligations. To limit this risk, we have control procedures to evaluate the financial condition of reinsurers and to monitor the concentration of credit risk to minimize this 84 Table of Contents exposure. The selection of reinsurance companies is based on criteria related to solvency and reliability and, to a lesser degree, diversification, as well as developing strong relationships with our reinsurers for the sharing of risks. Business Dispositions To exit certain businesses, we have used reinsurance to facilitate transactions because the businesses share legal entities with business segments we retain. Assets supporting liabilities ceded relating to these businesses are held in trusts and the separate accounts relating to divested business are still reflected in our consolidated balance sheets. Segments Client Risk and Profit Sharing The Assurant Solutions and Assurant Specialty Property segments write business produced by clients, such as mortgage lenders and servicers and financial institutions, and reinsures all or a portion of such business to insurance subsidiaries of the clients. Such arrangements allow significant flexibility in structuring the sharing of risks and profits on the underlying business. A substantial portion of Assurant Solutions and Assurant Specialty Property reinsurance activities are related to agreements to reinsure premiums and risk related to business generated by certain clients to the clients captive insurance companies or to reinsurance subsidiaries in which the clients have an ownership interest. Through these arrangements, our insurance subsidiaries share some of the premiums and risk related to client generated business with these clients. When the reinsurance companies are not authorized to do business in our insurance subsidiarys domiciliary state, our insurance subsidiary generally obtains collateral, such as a trust or a letter of credit, from the reinsurance company or its affiliate in an amount equal to the outstanding reserves to obtain full statutory financial credit in the domiciliary state for the reinsurance. Our reinsurance agreements do not relieve us from our direct obligation to our insured. Thus, a credit exposure exists to the extent that any reinsurer is unable to meet the obligations assumed in the reinsurance agreements. To minimize our exposure to reinsurance insolvencies, we evaluate the financial condition of our reinsurers and hold substantial collateral (in the form of funds, trusts and letters of credit) as security under the reinsurance agreements. See Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Credit Risk. Liquidity and Capital Resources Regulatory Requirements Assurant, Inc. is a holding company, and as such, has limited direct operations of its own. Our holding company assets consist primarily of the capital stock of our subsidiaries. Accordingly, our future cash flows depend upon the availability of dividends and other statutorily permissible payments from our subsidiaries, such as payments under our tax allocation agreement and under management agreements with our subsidiaries. The ability to pay such dividends and to make such other payments will be limited by applicable laws and regulations of the states in which our subsidiaries are domiciled, which subject our subsidiaries to significant regulatory restrictions. The dividend requirements and regulations vary from state to state and by type of insurance provided by the applicable subsidiary. These laws and regulations require, among other things, our insurance subsidiaries to maintain minimum solvency requirements and limit the amount of dividends these subsidiaries can pay to the holding company. Along with solvency regulations, the primary driver in determining the amount of capital used for dividends is the level of capital needed to maintain desired financial strength ratings from A. M. Best. Given recent economic events that have affected the insurance industry, both regulators and rating agencies could become more conservative in their methodology and criteria, including increasing capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries which, in turn, could negatively affect our capital resources. For 2009, the maximum amount of distributions our subsidiaries could pay, under applicable laws and regulations without prior regulatory approval, is approximately $482,143. 85 Table of Contents Liquidity Dividends and or returns of capital paid by our subsidiaries totaled $453,303, $436,900 and $554,270 for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We used these cash inflows primarily to pay expenses, to make interest payments on indebtedness, to make dividend payments to our stockholders, to make subsidiary capital contributions, to fund acquisitions and to repurchase our outstanding shares. The primary sources of funds for our subsidiaries consist of premiums and fees collected, the proceeds from the sales and maturity of investments and investment income. Cash is primarily used to pay insurance claims, agent commissions, operating expenses and taxes. We generally invest our subsidiaries excess funds in order to generate investment income. We conduct periodic asset liability studies to measure the duration of our insurance liabilities, to develop optimal asset portfolio maturity structures for our significant lines of business and ultimately to assess that cash flows are sufficient to meet the timing of cash needs. These studies are conducted in accordance with formal company wide Asset Liability Management (ALM) guidelines. To complete a study for a particular line of business, models are developed to project asset and liability cash flows and balance sheet items under a large, varied set of plausible economic scenarios. These models consider many factors including the current investment portfolio, the required capital for the related assets and liabilities, our tax position and projected cash flows from both existing and projected new business. Alternative asset portfolio structures are analyzed for significant lines of business. An investment portfolio maturity structure is then selected from these profiles given our return hurdle and risk preference. Sensitivity testing of significant liability assumptions and new business projections is also performed. Given our ALM asset allocation processes and the nature of the products we offer, we have minimal exposure to disintermediation risk. Our liabilities have limited policyholder optionality which results in policyholder behavior that is mainly insensitive to the interest rate environment. In addition, our investment portfolio is largely comprised of highly liquid fixed maturity securities with a sufficient component of such securities invested that are near maturity which may be sold with minimal risk of loss to meet cash needs. Generally, our subsidiaries premiums, fees and investment income, along with planned asset sales and maturities, provide sufficient cash to pay claims and expenses. However, there are instances where unexpected cash needs arise in excess of that available from usual operating sources. In such instances, we have several options to raise needed funds, including selling assets from the subsidiaries investment portfolios, using holding company cash (if available), issuing commercial paper and drawing funds from our revolving credit facility. In addition, on November 6, 2008, we filed an automatically effective shelf registration statement on Form S 3 with the SEC. This registration statement allows us to issue equity, debt, or other types of securities through one or more methods of distribution. The terms of any offering would be established at the time of the offering, subject to market conditions. If we determine to make an offering of securities, we will consider the nature of the cash requirement as well as the cost of capital in determining what type of securities we may offer. On January 23, 2009, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.14 per common share payable on March 9, 2009 to stockholders of record as of February 23, 2009. We paid dividends of $0.14 per common share on December 10, 2008, September 9, 2008, and June 10, 2008, and $0.12 per common share on March 10, 2008. In 2007, we paid dividends of $0.12 per common share on December 10, 2007, September 11, 2007, and June 12, 2007, and $0.10 per common share on March 12, 2007. Any determination to pay future dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will be dependent upon: our subsidiaries payment of dividends and or other statutorily permissible payments to us; our results of operations and cash flows; our financial position and capital requirements; general business conditions; any legal, tax, regulatory and contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends; and any other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant. Management believes that we will have sufficient liquidity to satisfy our needs over the next twelve months, including the ability to pay interest on our senior notes and dividends on our common shares. 86 Table of Contents Retirement and Other Employee Benefits We sponsor a pension plan and a retirement health benefit plan covering our employees who meet specified eligibility requirements. The reported expense and liability associated with these plans requires an extensive use of assumptions which include the discount rate, expected return on plan assets and rate of future compensation increases. We determine these assumptions based upon currently available market and industry data, and historical performance of the plan and its assets, to aid us in selecting appropriate assumptions and valuing our related liabilities. The actuarial assumptions used in the calculation of our aggregate projected benefit obligation may vary and include an expectation of long term market appreciation in equity markets which is not changed by minor short term market fluctuations, but does change when large interim deviations occur. The assumptions we use may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates or longer or shorter life spans of the participants. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA) requires certain qualified plans, like the Assurant Pension Plan ( the Plan), to meet specified funding thresholds beginning with the 2008 plan year. If these funding thresholds are not met, there are negative consequences to the Plan and participants. If the funded percentage falls below 80%, full payment of lump sum benefits as well as implementation of amendments improving benefits are restricted. As of January 1, 2008, the Plans funded percentage is 117% on a PPA calculated basis. Therefore, benefit and payment restrictions did not occur during 2008. The 2008 funded measure will also be used to determine restrictions, if any, that can occur during the first nine months of 2009. Due to the well funded status of the Plan in 2008, no restrictions will exist before October 2009 (the time that the January 1, 2009 actuarial valuation needs to be completed). Also, based on the estimated funded status as of January 1, 2009, we do not anticipate any restrictions on benefits for the remainder of 2009. Our pension plan was under funded by $200,855 at December 31, 2008. We established a funding policy for our qualified pension plan in which service cost plus 15% of plan deficit will be contributed annually. We made $29,695 of discretionary pension plan contributions in 2008. See Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report for the components of the net periodic benefit cost. Commercial Paper Program We maintain a $500,000 commercial paper program, which is available for working capital and other general corporate purposes. Our commercial paper program is rated AMB 2 by A.M. Best, P 2 by Moodys and A2 by S&P. Our subsidiaries do not maintain commercial paper or other borrowing facilities at their level. This program is backed by a $500,000 senior revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks arranged by J.P. Morgan Securities, Inc. and Citigroup Global Market, Inc., which was established on January 30, 2004. In April 2005, we amended and restated our $500,000 senior revolving credit facility with a syndicate of banks arranged by Citibank and JP Morgan Chase Bank. The amended and restated credit facility is unsecured and is available until April 2010, so long as we are in compliance with all the covenants. This facility is also available for general corporate purposes, but to the extent used thereto, would be unavailable to back up the commercial paper program. There were no amounts relating to the commercial paper program outstanding at December 31, 2008. We did not use the revolving credit facility during 2008 and no amounts are outstanding. The $500,000 senior revolving credit facility contains a $30,000 commitment from Lehman Brothers Bank, FSB (Lehman). Based on the financial condition of Lehman, the company is not relying on Lehmans commitment. The revolving credit facility contains restrictive covenants, all of which have been met as of December 31, 2008. These covenants include (but are not limited to): (i) Maintenance of a maximum debt to total capitalization ratio of not greater than 0.35 to 1; and (ii) Maintenance of a consolidated adjusted net worth in an amount not less than the Minimum Amount. For the purpose of this calculation the Minimum Amount is an amount equal to the sum of the base amount ($2,477,212) plus 50% of consolidated net income for each fiscal quarter (if positive) ending after December 31, 2004, and plus 100% of the net proceeds of any issuance of Capital Stock or Hybrid Securities. 87 Table of Contents At December 31, 2008, our ratio of debt to total capitalization was 0.18 to 1, the Minimum Amount consolidated described in (ii) above was $3,706,446 and our actual consolidated adjusted net worth as calculated under the covenant was $4,391,611. In the event of the breach of certain covenants all obligations under the facility, including unpaid principal and accrued interest, may become immediately due and payable. Senior Notes On February 18, 2004, we issued two series of senior notes in an aggregate principal amount of $975,000. The first series is $500,000 in principal amount, bears interest at 5.625% per year and is payable in a single installment due February 15, 2014. The second series is $475,000 in principal amount, bears interest at 6.750% per year and is payable in a single installment due February 15, 2034. Our senior notes are rated bbb by A.M. Best, Baa1 by Moodys and BBB+ by S&P. Interest on our senior notes is payable semi annually on February 15 and August 15 of each year. The senior notes are unsecured obligations and rank equally with all of our other senior unsecured indebtedness. The senior notes are not redeemable prior to maturity. In managements opinion, our subsidiaries cash flow from operations together with our income and gains from our investment portfolio will provide sufficient liquidity to meet our needs in the ordinary course of business. Cash Flows We monitor cash flows at the consolidated, holding company and subsidiary levels. Cash flow forecasts at the consolidated and subsidiary levels are provided on a monthly basis, and we use trend and variance analyses to project future cash needs making adjustments to the forecasts when needed. The table below shows our recent net cash flows: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities (1) $ 976,857 $ 1,212,454 $ 931,424 Investing activities (329,003 ) (1,208,585 ) (84,511 ) Financing activities (412,134 ) (186,577 ) (714,810 ) Net change in cash $ 235,720 $ (182,708 ) $ 132,103 (1) Includes effect of exchange rates changes on cash and cash equivalents. Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2008, 2007, and 2006. Operating activities: Net cash provided by operating activities was $976,857 and $1,212,454 for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities is mainly due to greater claim payments associated with hurricanes Gustav and Ike in 2008 and declines in gross written premium from our domestic insurance businesses in our Assurant Solutions segment, partially offset by cash received from the termination of a previous strategic alliance with GE. 88 Table of Contents Net cash provided by operating activities was $1,212,454 and $931,424 for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The $281,030 increase in net cash provided by operating activities is primarily due to the increase in gross written premiums from our extended service contracts and creditor placed homeowners businesses and lower claim payments related to hurricane losses. Investing Activities: Net cash used in investing activities was $329,003 and $1,208,585 for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The decrease in investing activities is mainly due to a decrease in purchases of fixed maturity securities and changes in collateral held under securities, partially offset by the change in short term investments and the acquisitions of Signal and the GE Warranty Management Group. Net cash used in investing activities was $1,208,585 and $84,511 for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The $1,124,074 increase in net cash used in investing activities is mainly due to net purchases of fixed maturity securities. In addition, the increase is also attributable to changes in collateral held under securities lending and short term investments, as well as the negative impact on cash since it was used for the acquisitions of Centrepoint, Swansure and Mayflower. Financing Activities: Net cash used in financing activities was $412,134 and $186,577 for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The increase in net cash used in financing activities is mainly due to changes in obligation under securities lending, partially offset by a decrease in cash used to re purchase our common stock. During 2008, the Company purchased 1,000,000 shares from Fortis, Inc., its former parent. Net cash used in financing activities was $186,577 and $714,810 for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The $528,233 decrease in cash used in financing activities is primarily due to changes in collateral held under securities lending. The table below shows our cash outflows for interest and dividends for the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 Security Interest paid on mandatory redeemable preferred stock and debt $ 60,859 $ 61,089 $ 61,159 Common stock dividends 63,672 55,038 48,157 Total $ 124,531 $ 116,127 $ 109,316 89 Table of Contents Commitments and Contingencies We have obligations and commitments to third parties as a result of our operations. These obligations and commitments, as of December 31, 2008, are detailed in the table below by maturity date as of the dates indicated: As of December 31, 2008 Total Less than 1 Year 1 3Years 3 5Years More than 5Years Contractual obligations : Insurance liabilities (1) $ 15,882,222 $ 1,768,096 $ 1,552,285 $ 1,356,911 $ 11,204,930 Debt and related interest 1,917,188 60,188 120,375 120,375 1,616,250 Mandatory redeemable preferred stock 11,160 11,160 Operating leases 125,528 35,181 43,178 20,189 26,980 Pension obligations and postretirement benefit 475,440 36,157 70,970 82,796 285,517 Commitments: Investment purchases outstanding: Commercial mortgage loans on real estate 10,000 10,000 Other investments 19,505 19,505 FIN 48 liability 19,604 1,589 13,460 4,555 Total obligations and commitments $ 18,460,647 $ 1,930,716 $ 1,800,268 $ 1,584,826 $ 13,144,837 (1) Insurance liabilities, reflected in the commitments and contingencies table above, include products for which we are currently making periodic payments and products for which we are not making periodic payments, but for which we believe the amount and timing of future payments is essentially fixed and determinable. Amounts included in insurance liabilities reflect estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders. Liabilities for future policy benefits and expenses of $7,095,645 and claims and benefits payable of $3,302,731 have been included in the commitments and contingencies table. Significant uncertainties relating to these liabilities include mortality, morbidity, expenses, persistency, investment returns, inflation, contract terms and the timing of payments. Letters of Credit In the normal course of business, letters of credit are issued primarily to support reinsurance arrangements. These letters of credit are supported by commitments with financial institutions. We had approximately $29,617 and $31,813 of letters of credit outstanding as of December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007, respectively. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company does not have any off balance sheet arrangements that are reasonably likely to have a material effect on the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, or capital resources of the Company. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk As a provider of insurance products, effective risk management is fundamental to our ability to protect both our customers and stockholders interests. We are exposed to potential loss from various market risks, in particular interest rate risk and credit risk. Additionally, we are exposed to inflation risk and to a small extent to foreign currency risk. 90 Table of Contents Interest rate risk is the possibility that the fair value of liabilities will change more or less than the market value of investments in response to changes in interest rates, including changes in the slope or shape of the yield curve and changes in spreads due to credit risks and other factors. Credit risk is the possibility that counterparties may not be able to meet payment obligations when they become due. We assume counterparty credit risk in many forms. A counterparty is any person or entity from which cash or other forms of consideration are expected to extinguish a liability or obligation to us. Primarily, our credit risk exposure is concentrated in our fixed maturity investment portfolio and, to a lesser extent, in our reinsurance recoverables. Inflation risk is the possibility that a change in domestic price levels produces an adverse effect on earnings. This typically happens when only one of invested assets or liabilities is indexed to inflation. Foreign exchange risk is the possibility that changes in exchange rates produce an adverse effect on earnings and equity when measured in domestic currency. This risk is largest when assets backing liabilities payable in one currency are invested in financial instruments of another currency. Our general principle is to invest in assets that match the currency in which we expect the liabilities to be paid. Interest Rate Risk Interest rate risk arises as we invest substantial funds in interest sensitive fixed income assets, such as fixed maturity securities, mortgage backed and asset backed securities and commercial mortgage loans, primarily in the United States and Canada. There are two forms of interest rate risk price risk and reinvestment risk. Price risk occurs when fluctuations in interest rates have a direct impact on the market valuation of these investments. As interest rates rise, the market value of these investments falls, and conversely, as interest rates fall, the market value of these investments rises. Reinvestment risk occurs when fluctuations in interest rates have a direct impact on expected cash flows from mortgage backed and asset backed securities. As interest rates fall, an increase in prepayments on these assets results in earlier than expected receipt of cash flows forcing us to reinvest the proceeds in an unfavorable lower interest rate environment. Conversely, as interest rates rise, a decrease in prepayments on these assets results in later than expected receipt of cash flows forcing us to forgo reinvesting in a favorable higher interest rate environment. We manage interest rate risk by selecting investments with characteristics such as duration, yield, currency and liquidity tailored to the anticipated cash outflow characteristics of our insurance and reinsurance liabilities. Our group long term disability reserves are also sensitive to interest rates. Group long term disability and group term life waiver of premium reserves are discounted to the valuation date at the valuation interest rate. The valuation interest rate is determined by taking into consideration actual and expected earned rates on our asset portfolio. 91 Table of Contents The interest rate sensitivity relating to price risk of our fixed maturity security assets is assessed using hypothetical scenarios that assume several positive and negative parallel shifts of the yield curves. We have assumed that the United States and Canadian yield curve shifts are of equal direction and magnitude. The individual securities are repriced under each scenario using a valuation model. For investments such as callable bonds and mortgage backed and asset backed securities, a prepayment model was used in conjunction with a valuation model. Our actual experience may differ from the results noted below particularly due to assumptions utilized or if events occur that were not included in the methodology. The following table summarizes the results of this analysis for bonds, mortgage backed and asset backed securities held in our investment portfolio: Interest Rate Movement Analysis of Market Value of Fixed Maturity Securities Investment Portfolio As of December 31, 2008 100 50 0 50 100 Total market value $ 9,184,963 $ 8,882,572 $ 8,591,266 $ 8,305,337 $ 8,035,576 % Change in market value from base case 6.91 % 3.39 % 3.33 % 6.47 % $ Change in market value from base case $ 593,697 $ 291,306 $ 285,928 $ 555,690 The interest rate sensitivity relating to reinvestment risk of our fixed maturity security assets is assessed using hypothetical scenarios that assume purchases in the primary market and considers the effects of interest rates on sales. The effects of embedded options including call or put features are not considered. Our actual results may differ from the results noted below particularly due to assumptions utilized or if events occur that were not included in the methodology. The following table summarizes the results of this analysis on our reported portfolio yield: Interest Rate Movement Analysis of Portfolio Yield of Fixed Maturity Securities Investment Portfolio As of December 31, 2008 100 50 0 50 100 Portfolio yield 5.91 % 5.96 % 6.01 % 6.06 % 6.11 % Basis point change in portfolio yield (0.10 )% (0.05 )% 0.05 % 0.10 % Credit Risk We have exposure to credit risk primarily from customers, as a holder of fixed maturity securities and by entering into reinsurance cessions. Our risk management strategy and investment policy is to invest in debt instruments of high credit quality issuers and to limit the amount of credit exposure with respect to any one issuer. We attempt to limit our credit exposure by imposing fixed maturity portfolio limits on individual issuers based upon credit quality. Currently our portfolio limits are 1.5% for issuers rated AA and above, 1% for issuers rated A to A+, 0.75% for issuers rated BBB to BBB+ and 0.38% for issuers rated BB to BB+. These portfolio limits are further reduced for certain issuers with whom we have credit exposure on reinsurance agreements. We use the lower of Moodys or S&Ps ratings to determine an issuers rating. 92 Table of Contents The following table presents our fixed maturity investment portfolio by ratings of the nationally recognized securities rating organizations as of December 31, 2008: Rating Fair Value Percentage ofTotal Aaa/Aa/A $ 5,706,913 66 % Baa 2,364,693 28 % Ba 402,942 5 % B and lower 116,718 1 % Total $ 8,591,266 100 % We are also exposed to the credit risk of our reinsurers. When we reinsure, we are still liable to our insureds regardless of whether we get reimbursed by our reinsurer. As part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various business segments as described above under Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Reinsurance. For at least 50% of our $4,010,170 of reinsurance recoverables at December 31, 2008, we are protected from the credit risk by using various types of risk mitigation mechanisms such as trusts, letters of credit or by withholding the assets in a modified coinsurance or co funds withheld arrangement. For example, reserves of $1,257,727 and $1,355,689 as of December 31, 2008 relating to two large coinsurance arrangements with The Hartford and John Hancock, respectively, related to sales of businesses are held in trusts. If the value of the assets in these trusts falls below the value of the associated liabilities, The Hartford and John Hancock, as the case may be, will be required to put more assets in the trusts. We may be dependent on the financial condition of The Hartford and John Hancock, whose A.M. Best ratings are currently A+ and A++, respectively. However, A.M. Best recently placed a negative outlook on the issuer credit and financial strength ratings of both The Hartford and John Hancock. For recoverables that are not protected by these mechanisms, we are dependent solely on the credit of the reinsurer. Occasionally, the credit worthiness of the reinsurer becomes questionable. See Item 1A Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Company Reinsurance may not be available or adequate to protect us against losses, and we are subject to the credit risk of reinsurers and We have sold businesses through reinsurance that could again become our direct financial and administrative responsibility if the purchasing Companies were to become insolvent. We believe that a majority of our reinsurance exposure has been ceded to companies rated A or better by A.M. Best. Inflation Risk Inflation risk arises as we invest substantial funds in nominal assets, which are not indexed to the level of inflation, whereas the underlying liabilities are indexed to the level of inflation. Approximately 10% of Assurant preneeds insurance policies with reserves of $362,899 as of December 31, 2008 have death benefits that are guaranteed to grow with the CPI. In times of rapidly rising inflation, the credited death benefit growth on these liabilities increases relative to the investment income earned on the nominal assets resulting in an adverse impact on earnings. We have partially mitigated this risk by purchasing contracts with payments tied to the CPI. See Derivatives. In addition, we have inflation risk in our individual and small employer group health insurance businesses to the extent that medical costs increase with inflation, and we have not been able to increase premiums to keep pace with inflation. Foreign Exchange Risk We are exposed to some foreign exchange risk arising from our international operations mainly in Canada. We also have limited foreign exchange risk exposure to currencies other than the Canadian dollar, primarily the British pound and Danish Krone. However, total invested assets denominated in these other currencies were less than 3% of our total invested assets at December 31, 2008. 93 Table of Contents Foreign exchange risk is mitigated by matching our liabilities under insurance policies that are payable in foreign currencies with investments that are denominated in such currency. We have not established any hedge to our foreign currency exchange rate exposure. The foreign exchange risk sensitivity of our fixed maturity securities denominated in Canadian dollars, whose balance was $822,851 of the total, on our entire fixed maturity portfolio is summarized in the following table: Foreign Exchange Movement Analysis of Market Value of Fixed Maturity Securities Assets As of December 31, 2008 Foreign exchange spot rate at December 31,2008, US Dollar to Canadian Dollar 10% 5% 0 5% 10% Total market value $ 8,508,981 $ 8,550,124 $ 8,591,266 $ 8,632,408 $ 8,673,551 % change of market value from base case (0.96 )% (0.48 )% 0.48 % 0.96 % $ change of market value from base case $ (82,285 ) $ (41,142 ) $ 41,142 $ 82,285 The foreign exchange risk sensitivity of our consolidated net income is assessed using hypothetical test scenarios that assume earnings in Canadian dollars are recognized evenly throughout a period. Our actual results may differ from the results noted below particularly due to assumptions utilized or if events occur that were not included in the methodology. For more information on this risk. Please see Item 1A Risk Factors Risk Related to Our Company Fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies may materially and adversely impact our results of operations The following table summarizes the results of this analysis on our reported net income: Foreign Exchange Movement Analysis Of Net Income As of December 31, 2008 Foreign exchange daily average rate for the yearended 2008, US Dollar to Canadian Dollar 10% 5% 0 5% 10% Net income $ 444,658 $ 446,227 $ 447,796 $ 449,365 $ 450,934 % change of net income from base case (0.70 )% (0.35 )% 0.35 % 0.70 % $ change of net income from base case $ (3,138 ) $ (1,569 ) $ 1,569 $ 3,138 Derivatives Derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest rates, foreign exchange rates, financial indices or the prices of securities or commodities. Derivative financial instruments may be exchange traded or contracted in the over the counter market and include swaps, futures, options and forward contracts. Under insurance statutes, our insurance companies may use derivative financial instruments to hedge actual or anticipated changes in their assets or liabilities, to replicate cash market instruments or for certain income generating activities. These statutes generally prohibit the use of derivatives for speculative purposes. We generally do not use derivative financial instruments. We have purchased contracts to cap the inflation risk exposure inherent in some of our preneed insurance policies. In accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Boards Derivatives Implementation Group Statement 133 Implementation Issue No. 36, Embedded Derivatives: Modified Coinsurance Arrangements and Debt Instruments That Incorporate Credit Risk Exposures That Are Unrelated or Only Partially Related to the Creditworthiness of the Obligor under Those Instruments (DIG B36), we have bifurcated the modified coinsurance agreement with The Harford into its debt host and embedded derivative (total return swap) and recorded the embedded derivative at fair value on the consolidated balance sheet. The invested assets related to this modified coinsurance agreement are included in other investments on the consolidated balance sheets. 94 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Reinsurance. For at least 50% of our $4,010,170 of reinsurance recoverables at December 31, 2008, we are protected from the credit risk by using various types of risk mitigation mechanisms such as trusts, letters of credit or by withholding the assets in a modified coinsurance or co funds withheld arrangement. For example, reserves of $1,257,727 and $1,355,689 as of December 31, 2008 relating to two large coinsurance arrangements with The Hartford and John Hancock, respectively, related to sales of businesses are held in trusts. If the value of the assets in these trusts falls below the value of the associated liabilities, The Hartford and John Hancock, as the case may be, will be required to put more assets in the trusts. We may be dependent on the financial condition of The Hartford and John Hancock, whose A.M. Best ratings are currently A+ and A++, respectively. However, A.M. Best recently placed a negative outlook on the issuer credit and financial strength ratings of both The Hartford and John Hancock. For recoverables that are not protected by these mechanisms, we are dependent solely on the credit of the reinsurer. Occasionally, the credit worthiness of the reinsurer becomes questionable. See Item 1A Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Company Reinsurance may not be available or adequate to protect us against losses, and we are subject to the credit risk of reinsurers and We have sold businesses through reinsurance that could again become our direct financial and administrative responsibility if the purchasing Companies were to become insolvent. We believe that a majority of our reinsurance exposure has been ceded to companies rated A or better by A.M. Best. Inflation Risk Inflation risk arises as we invest substantial funds in nominal assets, which are not indexed to the level of inflation, whereas the underlying liabilities are indexed to the level of inflation. Approximately 10% of Assurant preneeds insurance policies with reserves of $362,899 as of December 31, 2008 have death benefits that are guaranteed to grow with the CPI. In times of rapidly rising inflation, the credited death benefit growth on these liabilities increases relative to the investment income earned on the nominal assets resulting in an adverse impact on earnings. We have partially mitigated this risk by purchasing contracts with payments tied to the CPI. See Derivatives. In addition, we have inflation risk in our individual and small employer group health insurance businesses to the extent that medical costs increase with inflation, and we have not been able to increase premiums to keep pace with inflation. Foreign Exchange Risk We are exposed to some foreign exchange risk arising from our international operations mainly in Canada. We also have limited foreign exchange risk exposure to currencies other than the Canadian dollar, primarily the British pound and Danish Krone. However, total invested assets denominated in these other currencies were less than 3% of our total invested assets at December 31, 2008. 93 Table of Contents Foreign exchange risk is mitigated by matching our liabilities under insurance policies that are payable in foreign currencies with investments that are denominated in such currency. We have not established any hedge to our foreign currency exchange rate exposure. The foreign exchange risk sensitivity of our fixed maturity securities denominated in Canadian dollars, whose balance was $822,851 of the total, on our entire fixed maturity portfolio is summarized in the following table: Foreign Exchange Movement Analysis of Market Value of Fixed Maturity Securities Assets As of December 31, 2008 Foreign exchange spot rate at December 31,2008, US Dollar to Canadian Dollar 10% 5% 0 5% 10% Total market value $ 8,508,981 $ 8,550,124 $ 8,591,266 $ 8,632,408 $ 8,673,551 % change of market value from base case (0.96 )% (0.48 )% 0.48 % 0.96 % $ change of market value from base case $ (82,285 ) $ (41,142 ) $ 41,142 $ 82,285 The foreign exchange risk sensitivity of our consolidated net income is assessed using hypothetical test scenarios that assume earnings in Canadian dollars are recognized evenly throughout a period. Our actual results may differ from the results noted below particularly due to assumptions utilized or if events occur that were not included in the methodology. For more information on this risk. Please see Item 1A Risk Factors Risk Related to Our Company Fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies may materially and adversely impact our results of operations The following table summarizes the results of this analysis on our reported net income: Foreign Exchange Movement Analysis Of Net Income As of December 31, 2008 Foreign exchange daily average rate for the yearended 2008, US Dollar to Canadian Dollar 10% 5% 0 5% 10% Net income $ 444,658 $ 446,227 $ 447,796 $ 449,365 $ 450,934 % change of net income from base case (0.70 )% (0.35 )% 0.35 % 0.70 % $ change of net income from base case $ (3,138 ) $ (1,569 ) $ 1,569 $ 3,138 Derivatives Derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest rates, foreign exchange rates, financial indices or the prices of securities or commodities. Derivative financial instruments may be exchange traded or contracted in the over the counter market and include swaps, futures, options and forward contracts. Under insurance statutes, our insurance companies may use derivative financial instruments to hedge actual or anticipated changes in their assets or liabilities, to replicate cash market instruments or for certain income generating activities. These statutes generally prohibit the use of derivatives for speculative purposes. We generally do not use derivative financial instruments. We have purchased contracts to cap the inflation risk exposure inherent in some of our preneed insurance policies. In accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Boards Derivatives Implementation Group Statement 133 Implementation Issue No. 36, Embedded Derivatives: Modified Coinsurance Arrangements and Debt Instruments That Incorporate Credit Risk Exposures That Are Unrelated or Only Partially Related to the Creditworthiness of the Obligor under Those Instruments (DIG B36), we have bifurcated the modified coinsurance agreement with The Harford into its debt host and embedded derivative (total return swap) and recorded the embedded derivative at fair value on the consolidated balance sheet. The invested assets related to this modified coinsurance agreement are included in other investments on the consolidated balance sheets. 94 Table of Contents 
 
