Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes which appear elsewhere in this report. It contains forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed below and elsewhere in this report, particularly under the headings Item 1A Risk Factors and Forward Looking Statements. General We report our results through five segments: Assurant Solutions, Assurant Specialty Property, Assurant Health, Assurant Employee Benefits, and Corporate and Other. The Corporate and Other segment includes activities of the holding company, financing expenses, net realized gains (losses) on investments, interest income earned from short term investments held, interest income from excess surplus of insurance subsidiaries not allocated to other segments, run off Asbestos business, and additional costs associated with excess of loss reinsurance and ceded to certain subsidiaries in the London market between 1995 and 1997. The Corporate and Other segment also includes the amortization of deferred gains associated with the portions of the sales of FFG and LTC, which were sold through reinsurance agreements as described below. Although profits improved in our Assurant Solutions segment year over year, results in the United Kingdom (UK) have continued to deteriorate. We are taking further actions to remedy issues in the UK. We believe that the addition of several new clients effective this year may bring revenue growth. The new clients and distribution channels we are adding will partially offset business lost from client bankruptcies and a slowdown in consumer spending. Our strategy to partner with original equipment manufacturers is producing favorable results. We are benefiting from our Preneed partnership with SCI as they continue to add new funeral homes. 41 Table of Contents We expect continued changes in the mortgage marketplace affecting Assurant Specialty Property. The overall number of U.S. mortgage loans outstanding is declining and we expect this trend to continue until the residential real estate market recovers. We expect the decline to be more pronounced in the subprime sector where policy placement rates are higher. We expect that the movement of portfolios between loan servicers will continue to create quarterly variability in gross written premiums beyond the seasonality we have traditionally experienced in this business. Consolidation of mortgage portfolios by our clients will pressure margins as loans transition to terms found in the most favorable portfolio contract. We expect that the pricing and plan changes we have implemented combined with expense reduction efforts should return the Assurant Health business to profitability by late in 2010. Results are tracking consistent with our assumptions based on our experience in the second half of 2009. We continue to work closely with the industry and with members of Congress to offer constructive suggestions for reform of the health care system in the U.S. We are hopeful that reform will focus on programs that work to reduce costs and provide affordable healthcare options to all Americans. Our focus at Assurant Employee Benefits remains on the small employer, particularly through the sale of worksite or voluntary, employee paid products, which we believe represents a growing segment of the industry. We have taken actions during 2009 to improve our dental results and additional changes are planned for 2010. We recently extended our shared dental network relationship with Aetna through 2012, allowing us to continue to offer small employers one of the largest dental networks in the country in conjunction with our product. Critical Factors Affecting Results Our results depend on the adequacy of our product pricing, underwriting and the accuracy of our methodology for the establishment of reserves for future policyholder benefits and claims, returns on invested assets and our ability to manage our expenses. Therefore, factors affecting these items may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. For a listing of those factors see Item 1A Risk Factors. Revenues We generate revenues primarily from the sale of our insurance policies and service contracts, fee income by providing administrative services to certain clients and investment income from the securities we own. Sales of insurance policies are recognized in revenue as earned premiums while sales of administrative services are recognized as fee income. Effective January 1, 2009, new preneed life insurance policies in which death benefit increases are determined at the discretion of the Company are accounted for as universal life contracts under the universal life insurance accounting guidance, which is within the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Codification (ASC) Topic 944, Financial Services Insurance. For contracts sold prior to January 1, 2009, these types of preneed life insurance sales were accounted for and will continue to be accounted for under limited pay insurance guidance, which is also within ASC Topic 944. The change from reporting certain preneed life insurance policies in accordance with the universal life insurance guidance versus the limited pay insurance guidance is not material to the consolidated statement of operations or balance sheets. In accordance with the universal life insurance guidance, income earned on new preneed life insurance policies is presented within policy fee income. Under the limited pay insurance guidance, the consideration received on preneed policies is presented separately as net earned premiums, with policyholder benefits expense being separately disclosed as incurred losses. As previously noted, the effects on net income for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 were not material. Our premium and fee income is supplemented by income earned from our investment portfolio. We recognize revenue from interest payments, dividends and sales of investments. Currently, our investment 42 Table of Contents portfolio is primarily invested in fixed maturity securities. Both investment income and realized capital gains on these investments can be significantly impacted by changes in interest rates. Interest rate volatility can increase or reduce unrealized gains or unrealized losses in our portfolios. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Fluctuations in interest rates affect our returns on, and the market value of, fixed maturity and short term investments. The fair market value of the fixed maturity securities in our portfolio and the investment income from these securities fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. The fair market value generally increases or decreases in an inverse relationship with fluctuations in interest rates, while net investment income realized by us from future investments in fixed maturity securities will generally increase or decrease with interest rates. We also have investments that carry pre payment risk, such as mortgage backed and asset backed securities. Actual net investment income and or cash flows from investments that carry prepayment risk may differ from estimates at the time of investment as a result of interest rate fluctuations. In periods of declining interest rates, mortgage prepayments generally increase and mortgage backed securities, commercial mortgage obligations and bonds are more likely to be prepaid or redeemed as borrowers seek to borrow at lower interest rates. Therefore, we may be required to reinvest those funds in lower interest bearing investments. Expenses Our expenses are primarily policyholder benefits, selling, underwriting and general expenses and interest expense. Our profitability depends in part on accurately predicting policyholder benefits, claims and other costs. It also depends on our ability to manage future policyholder benefits and other costs through product design, underwriting criteria, utilization review or claims management catastrophe reinsurance coverage and, in health and dental insurance, negotiation of favorable provider contracts. Changes in the composition of the kinds of work available in the economy, market conditions and numerous other factors may also materially adversely affect our ability to manage claim costs. As a result of one or more of these factors or other factors, claims could substantially exceed our expectations, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Selling, underwriting and general expenses consist primarily of commissions, premium taxes, licenses, fees, amortization of deferred acquisition costs (DAC) and value of business acquired (VOBA) and general operating expenses. For a description of DAC and VOBA, see Notes 2, 9 and 12 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report. We incur interest related expenses related to our debt and mandatorily redeemable preferred stock. Critical Accounting Estimates There are certain accounting policies that we consider to be critical due to the amount of judgment and uncertainty inherent in the application of those policies. In calculating financial statement estimates, the use of different assumptions could produce materially different estimates. In addition, if factors such as those described above or in Item 1A Risk Factors cause actual events to differ from the assumptions used in applying the accounting policies and calculating financial estimates, there could be a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and liquidity. 43 Table of Contents The following critical accounting policies require significant estimates. The actual amounts realized could ultimately be materially different from the amounts currently provided for in our consolidated financial statements. Reserves Reserves are established according to GAAP using generally accepted actuarial methods and are based on a number of factors. These factors include experience derived from historical claim payments and actuarial assumptions to arrive at loss development factors. Such assumptions and other factors include trends, the incidence of incurred claims, the extent to which all claims have been reported and internal claims processing charges. The process used in computing reserves cannot be exact, particularly for liability coverages, since actual claim costs are dependent upon such complex factors as inflation, changes in doctrines of legal liabilities and damage awards. The methods of making such estimates and establishing the related liabilities are periodically reviewed and updated. Reserves do not represent an exact calculation of exposure, but instead represent our best estimates, generally involving actuarial projections at a given time of what we expect the ultimate settlement and administration of a claim or group of claims will cost based on our assessment of facts and circumstances then known. The adequacy of reserves will be impacted by future trends in claims severity, frequency, judicial theories of liability and other factors. These variables are affected by both external and internal events, such as: changes in the economic cycle, changes in the social perception of the value of work, emerging medical perceptions regarding physiological or psychological causes of disability, emerging health issues and new methods of treatment or accommodation, inflation, judicial trends, legislative changes and claims handling procedures. Many of these items are not directly quantifiable, particularly on a prospective basis. Reserve estimates are refined as experience develops. Adjustments to reserves, both positive and negative, are reflected in the statement of operations of the period in which such estimates are updated. Because establishment of reserves is an inherently uncertain process involving estimates of future losses, there can be no certainty that ultimate losses will not exceed existing claims reserves. Future loss development could require reserves to be increased, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings in the periods in which such increases are made. 44 Table of Contents The following table provides reserve information of our major product lines for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008: December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Claims and BenefitsPayable Claims and BenefitsPayable FuturePolicyBenefits andExpenses UnearnedPremiums CaseReserves IncurredBut NotReportedReserves FuturePolicyBenefits andExpenses UnearnedPremiums CaseReserve IncurredBut NotReportedReserves Long Duration Contracts: Preneed funeral life insurance policies and investment type annuity contracts $ 3,629,601 $ 37,672 $ 10,431 $ 4,018 $ 3,432,583 $ 4,815 $ 11,664 $ 3,796 Life insurance no longer offered 478,839 681 1,639 339 498,945 735 1,516 349 Universal life and other products no longer offered 263,360 168 233 8,744 288,981 300 208 7,682 FFG, LTC and other disposed businesses 2,879,224 41,531 25,542 421,605 2,764,874 41,771 25,764 352,344 Medical 93,447 11,665 18,137 13,737 105,236 14,688 12,627 19,826 All other 5,162 335 18,197 6,225 5,026 288 18,194 7,664 Short Duration Contracts: Group term life 3,710 218,191 37,419 6,265 212,745 43,517 Group disability 7,705 1,274,378 143,052 2,392 1,325,418 147,584 Medical 112,603 169,260 190,366 109,759 96,702 181,158 Dental 4,334 5,709 19,464 4,642 3,610 21,580 Property and Warranty 1,896,897 173,009 368,242 1,887,510 228,920 332,930 Credit Life and Disability 366,313 81,726 77,581 395,091 85,312 72,665 Extended Service Contracts 2,482,683 2,350 50,207 2,788,327 2,187 65,769 All other 187,267 10,013 16,513 151,276 6,861 14,139 Total $ 7,349,633 $ 5,153,564 $ 2,008,815 $ 1,357,512 $ 7,095,645 $ 5,407,859 $ 2,031,728 $ 1,271,003 For a description of our reserving methodology, see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report. The following discusses the reserving process for our major long duration product line, Preneed, and reserves recorded for our significant discontinued operations, FFG and LTC. Long Duration Contracts Reserves for future policy benefits are recorded as the present value of future benefits to policyholders and related expenses less the present value of future net premiums. Reserve assumptions are selected using best estimates for expected investment yield, inflation, mortality, morbidity, expenses and withdrawal rates. These assumptions reflect current trends, are based on our experience and may include a provision for possible adverse deviation. We also record an unearned revenue reserve which represents the balance of the excess of gross premiums over net premiums that is still to be recognized in future years income in a constant relationship to either estimated gross profits or insurance in force. Premium deficiency testing is performed annually. Such testing involves the use of best estimate assumptions to determine if the net liability position (all liabilities less DAC) exceeds the minimum liability needed to meet our obligations. Any premium deficiency would first be addressed by removing the provision for adverse deviation, if any. To the extent a premium deficiency still remains, it would be recognized immediately by a charge to the statement of operations and a corresponding reduction in DAC. Any additional deficiency would be recognized as a premium deficiency reserve. 45 Table of Contents Historically, premium deficiency testing has not resulted in a material adjustment to DAC or reserves. Such adjustments would occur only if economic or mortality conditions significantly deteriorated. Risks related to the reserves recorded for contracts from FFG and LTC disposed businesses have been 100% ceded via reinsurance. While the Company has not been released from the contractual obligation to the policyholders, changes in and deviations from economic and mortality assumptions used in the calculation of these reserves will not directly affect our results of operations unless there is a default by the assuming reinsurer. Short Duration Contracts For short duration contracts, claims and benefits payable reserves are reported when insured events occur. The liability is based on the expected ultimate cost of settling the claims. The claims and benefits payable reserves include (1) case reserves for known but unpaid claims as of the balance sheet date; (2) IBNR reserves for claims where the insured event has occurred but has not been reported to us as of the balance sheet date; and (3) loss adjustment expense reserves for the expected handling costs of settling the claims. Periodically, we review emerging experience and make adjustments to our case reserves and assumptions where necessary. Below are further discussions on the reserving process for our major short duration products. Group Disability and Group Term Life Case or claim reserves are set for active individual claims on group long term disability policies and for disability waiver of premium benefits on group term life policies. Assumptions considered in setting such reserves include disabled life mortality and claim recovery rates, claim management practices, awards for social security and other benefit offsets and yield rates earned on assets supporting the reserves. Group long term disability and group term life waiver of premium reserves are discounted because the payment pattern and ultimate cost are fixed and determinable on an individual claim basis. Factors considered when setting IBNR reserves include patterns in elapsed time from claim incidence to claim reporting, and elapsed time from claim reporting to claim payment. Key sensitivities at December 31, 2009 for group long term disability claim reserves include the discount rate and claim termination rates. Claims andBenefits Payable Claims andBenefits Payable Group disability, discount rate decreased by 100 basis points $ 1,488,672 Group disability, claim termination rate 10% lower $ 1,451,884 Group disability, as reported $ 1,417,430 Group disability, as reported $ 1,417,430 Group disability, discount rate increased by 100 basis points $ 1,351,718 Group disability, claim termination rate 10% higher $ 1,382,110 The discount rate is also a key sensitivity for group term life waiver of premium reserves. Claims and Benefits Payable Group term life, discount rate decreased by 100 basis points $ 265,159 Group term life, as reported $ 255,610 Group life, discount rate increased by 100 basis points $ 247,032 Medical IBNR reserves represent the largest component of reserves estimated for claims and benefits payable in our Medical line of business, and the primary methods we use in their estimation are the loss development method and the projected claim method for recent claim periods. Under the loss development method, we estimate 46 Table of Contents ultimate losses for each incident period by multiplying the current cumulative losses by the appropriate loss development factor. Under the projected claim method, we use ultimate loss ratios when development methods do not provide enough data to reliably estimate reserves. In addition, we use variations on each method as well as a blend of the two. The primary variation is the use of projected claims using differing experience periods. We primarily use these two methods in our Medical line of business because of the limitations of relying exclusively on a single method. We develop the best estimate of expected outstanding liabilities for medical IBNR reserves using generally accepted actuarial principles. The various product lines are evaluated using experience data of sufficient detail to allow for the compilation of historical loss patterns including but not limited to claim lag factors, projected claims per member and restated development factors. If sufficient experience data is not available, experience data from other similar blocks may be used. Industry data provides additional benchmarks when historical experience is too limited. This information is used to provide a range in which the expected outstanding liabilities may fall. The selection of the ultimate loss estimate varies by product line as the credibility of certain methods differs depending upon the in force volume, the products claim volatility and the method itself. The selection is also influenced by other available information that may indicate that historical experience data may not be appropriate to use for current liability estimates. Examples of such information include but are not limited to changes in claims inventory levels, changes in provider negotiated rates or cost savings initiatives, increasing or decreasing medical cost trends, product changes and demographic changes in the underlying insured population. The development of prior period estimates is also reviewed to assist in establishing the current periods loss reserves. The short claim lag time inherent in many of our Medical products allows for emerging trends to be identified quickly. We evaluate all pertinent information and indicated ranges using experience and actuarial judgment to establish our best estimate for the associated liabilities. Key sensitivities as of December 31, 2009 for medical reserves include claims processing levels, claims under case management, medical inflation, seasonal effects, medical provider discounts and product mix. Claims and Benefits Payable* Medical, loss development factors 1% lower $ 377,626 Medical, as reported $ 359,626 Medical, loss development factors 1% higher $ 348,626 * This refers to loss development factors for the most recent four months. Our historical claims experience indicates that approximately 87% of medical claims are paid within four months of the incurred date. None of the changes in incurred claims from prior years in our Medical line of business were attributable to any change in our reserve methods or assumptions. Property and Warranty We develop the best estimate of loss reserves for our Property and Warranty line of business on a product line basis using generally accepted actuarial principles. Our Property and Warranty line of business includes creditor placed homeowners, manufactured housing homeowners, credit property, credit unemployment and warranty insurance and some longer tail coverages (e.g., asbestos, environmental, other general liability and personal accident). Our Property and Warranty loss reserves consist of case, IBNR and development on case reserves. The method we most often use in setting our Property and Warranty reserves is the loss development method. Under this method, we estimate ultimate losses for each accident period by multiplying the current cumulative losses by the appropriate loss development factor. We then calculate the reserve as the difference between the estimate of ultimate losses and the current case incurred losses (paid losses plus case reserves). We select loss development factors based on a review of historical averages, and we consider recent trends and business specific matters such as current claims payment practices. 47 Table of Contents The loss development method involves aggregating loss data (paid losses and case incurred losses) by accident quarter (or accident year) and accident age in quarters (or years) for each product or product grouping. As the data ages, we compile loss development factors that measure emerging claim development patterns between reporting periods. By selecting the most appropriate loss development factors, we project the known losses to an ultimate incurred basis for each accident period. The data is typically analyzed using quarterly paid losses and or quarterly case incurred losses. Some product groupings may also use annual paid loss and or annual case incurred losses, as well as other methods such the expected loss ratio and Bornhuetter Ferguson loss development methods. Each of these reserve methodologies produces an indication of the loss reserves for the product or product grouping. The process to select the best estimate differs across lines of business. The single best estimate is determined based on many factors, including but not limited to: the nature and extent of the underlying assumptions; the quality and applicability of historical data whether it be internal or industry data; current and future market conditions the economic environment will often impact the development of loss triangles; the extent of data segmentation data should be homogeneous yet credible enough for loss development methods to apply; and the past variability of loss estimates the loss estimates on some product lines will vary from actual loss experience more than others. We review operational and claims activity to gather additional pertinent information. After reviewing such information, a final IBNR amount for each product grouping is selected. We may use other methods depending on data credibility and product line. We use the estimates generated by the various methods to establish a range of reasonable estimates. The best estimate of Property and Warranty reserves is generally selected from the middle to upper end of the third quartile of the range of reasonable estimates. Most of our credit insurance business is written on a retrospective commission basis, which permits management to adjust commissions based on claims experience. Thus, any adjustment to prior years incurred claims in this line of business is partially offset by a change in contingent commissions, which is included in the selling, underwriting and general expenses line in our results of operations. While management has used its best judgment in establishing its estimate of required reserves, different assumptions and variables could lead to significantly different reserve estimates. Two key measures of loss activity are loss frequency, which is a measure of the number of claims per unit of insured exposure, and loss severity, which is a measure of the average size of claims. Factors affecting loss frequency include the effectiveness of loss controls and safety programs and changes in economic activity or weather patterns. Factors affecting loss severity include changes in policy limits, retentions, rate of inflation and judicial interpretations. If the actual level of loss frequency and severity are higher or lower than expected, the ultimate reserves will be different than managements estimate. The effect of higher and lower levels of loss frequency and severity levels on our ultimate costs for claims occurring in 2009 would be as follows: Change in both loss frequency and severity for all Property and Warranty Ultimate cost of claimsoccurring in 2009 Change in cost of claimsoccurring in 2009 3% higher $ 574,213 $ 32,962 2% higher $ 563,118 $ 21,867 1% higher $ 552,130 $ 10,879 Base scenario $ 541,251 0 1% lower $ 530,372 $ (10,879 ) 2% lower $ 519,384 $ (21,867 ) 3% lower $ 508,289 $ (32,962 ) 48 Table of Contents Reserving for Asbestos and Other Claims Our property and warranty line of business includes exposure to asbestos, environmental and other general liability claims arising from our participation in various reinsurance pools from 1971 through 1985. This exposure arose from a short duration contract that we discontinued writing many years ago. We carry case reserves, as recommended by the various pool managers, and IBNR reserves totaling $39,466 (before reinsurance) and $28,430 (net of reinsurance) at December 31, 2009. We believe the balance of case and IBNR reserves for these liabilities are adequate. However, any estimation of these liabilities is subject to greater than normal variation and uncertainty due to the general lack of sufficiently detailed data, reporting delays and absence of a generally accepted actuarial methodology for those exposures. There are significant unresolved industry legal issues, including such items as whether coverage exists and what constitutes an occurrence. In addition, the determination of ultimate damages and the final allocation of losses to financially responsible parties are highly uncertain. However, based on information currently available, and after consideration of the reserves reflected in the consolidated financial statements, we believe that any changes in reserve estimates for these claims are not reasonably likely to be material. One of our subsidiaries, American Reliable Insurance Company (ARIC), participated in certain excess of loss reinsurance programs in the London market and, as a result, reinsured certain personal accident, ransom and kidnap insurance risks from 1995 to 1997. ARIC and a foreign affiliate ceded a portion of these risks to retrocessionaires. ARIC ceased reinsuring such business in 1997. However, certain risks continued beyond 1997 due to the nature of the reinsurance contracts written. ARIC and some of the other reinsurers involved in the programs are seeking to avoid certain treaties on various grounds, including material misrepresentation and non disclosure by the ceding companies and intermediaries involved in the programs. Similarly, some of the retrocessionaires are seeking avoidance of certain treaties with ARIC and the other reinsurers and some reinsureds are seeking collection of disputed balances under some of the treaties. The disputes generally involve multiple layers of reinsurance, and allegations that the reinsurance programs involved interrelated claims spirals devised to disproportionately pass claims losses to higher level reinsurance layers. Many of the companies involved in these programs, including ARIC, are currently involved in negotiations, arbitrations and or litigation, in an effort to resolve these disputes. The disputes involving ARIC and an affiliate, Assurant General Insurance Limited (formerly Bankers Insurance Company Limited (AGIL)), for the 1995 and 1996 program years are subject to working group settlements negotiated with other market participants. Negotiations, arbitrations and litigation are still ongoing or will be scheduled for the remaining disputes. On February 28, 2006, there was a settlement relating to the 1996 program. In 2007, there were two settlements relating to parts of the 1997 program. During 2008, there was a $35,000 settlement relating to the 1997 program. Loss accruals previously established relating to the 1996 and 1997 program were adequate. As of December 31, 2009, we have $25,155 in loss reserves accrued. We believe, based on information currently available, that the amounts accrued are adequate. However, the inherent uncertainty of arbitrations and lawsuits, including the uncertainty of estimating whether any settlements we may enter into in the future would be on favorable terms, makes it difficult to predict outcomes with certainty. On June 9, 2009, ARIC and AGIL, wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company, entered into a settlement agreement with Willis Limited, a subsidiary of Willis Group Holdings Limited (Willis Limited). The settlement agreement related to an action commenced in 2007 in the English Commercial Court pertaining to the placement of personal accident reinsurance. Under the settlement agreement, Willis Limited paid ARIC and AGIL a total of $139,000, which was recorded in the Corporate and Other segment. DAC The costs of acquiring new business that vary with and are primarily related to the production of new business are deferred to the extent that such costs are deemed recoverable from future premiums or gross profits. Acquisition costs primarily consist of commissions, policy issuance expenses, premium tax and certain direct marketing expenses. 49 Table of Contents Premium deficiency testing is performed annually. Such testing involves the use of best estimate assumptions, including the anticipation of interest income to determine if anticipated future policy premiums are adequate to recover all DAC and related claims, benefits and expenses. To the extent a premium deficiency exists, it is recognized immediately by a charge to the statement of operations and a corresponding reduction in DAC. If the premium deficiency is greater than unamortized DAC, a liability will be accrued for the excess deficiency. Long Duration Contracts Acquisition costs for preneed life insurance policies issued prior to January 1, 2009 and life insurance policies (no longer offered) are deferred and amortized in proportion to anticipated premiums over the premium paying period. These acquisition costs consist primarily of first year commissions paid to agents and sales and policy issue costs. For preneed investment type annuities, preneed life insurance policies with discretionary death benefit growth issued after January 1, 2009, universal life insurance policies and investment type annuity contracts that are no longer offered, DAC is amortized in proportion to the present value of estimated gross margins or profits from investment, mortality, expense margins and surrender charges over the estimated life of the policy or contract. The assumptions used for the estimates are consistent with those used in computing the policy or contract liabilities. Acquisition costs relating to group worksite products, which typically have high front end costs and are expected to remain in force for an extended period of time, consist primarily of first year commissions to brokers and one time policy transfer fees and costs of issuing new certificates. These acquisition costs are front end loaded, thus they are deferred and amortized over the estimated terms of the underlying contracts. Acquisition costs relating to the majority of individual medical contracts issued prior to 2003, a limited number of individual medical contracts issued from 2003 through 2006 in certain jurisdictions, and individual voluntary limited benefit health policies issued in 2007 and later, are deferred and amortized over the estimated average terms of the underlying contracts. These acquisition costs relate to commissions and policy issuance expenses. Commissions represent the majority of deferred costs and result from commission schedules that pay significantly higher rates in the first year. The majority of deferred policy issuance expenses are the costs of separately underwriting each individual medical contract. Short Duration Contracts Acquisition costs relating to property contracts, warranty and extended service contracts and single premium credit insurance contracts are amortized over the term of the contracts in relation to premiums earned. Acquisition costs relating to monthly pay credit insurance business consist mainly of direct marketing costs and are deferred and amortized over the estimated average terms and balances of the underlying contracts. Acquisition costs relating to group term life, group disability and group dental consist primarily of compensation to sales representatives. These acquisition costs are front end loaded; thus, they are deferred and amortized over the estimated terms of the underlying contracts. Acquisition costs on the majority of individual medical contracts issued from 2003 through 2006, all individual medical contracts issued after 2006 and all small group medical contracts consist primarily of commissions to agents and brokers and compensation to representatives. These contracts are considered short duration because the terms of the contract are not fixed at issue and they are not guaranteed renewable. As a result, these costs are not deferred, but rather are recorded in the statement of operations in the period in which they are incurred. 50 Table of Contents Investments We regularly monitor our investment portfolio to ensure investments that may be other than temporarily impaired are identified in a timely fashion, properly valued, and charged against earnings in the proper period. The determination that a security has incurred an other than temporary decline in value requires the judgment of management. Assessment factors include, but are not limited to, the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than cost, the financial condition and rating of the issuer, whether any collateral is held, the intent and ability of the Company to retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for recovery for equity securities and the intent to sell or whether it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell for fixed maturity securities. Inherently, there are risks and uncertainties involved in making these judgments. Changes in circumstances and critical assumptions such as a continued weak economy, a more pronounced economic downturn or unforeseen events which affect one or more companies, industry sectors, or countries could result in additional impairments in future periods for other than temporary declines in value. Any equity security whose price decline is deemed other than temporary is written down to its then current market value with the amount of the impairment reported as a realized loss in that period. The impairment of a fixed maturity security that the Company has the intent to sell or that it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell is deemed other than temporary and is written down to its market value at the balance sheet date, with the amount of the impairment reported as a realized loss in that period. For all other than temporarily impaired fixed maturity securities that do not meet either of these two criteria, the Company is required to analyze its ability to recover the amortized cost of the security by calculating the net present value of projected future cash flows. For these other than temporarily impaired fixed maturity securities, the net amount recognized in earnings is equal to the difference between the amortized cost of the fixed maturity security and its net present value. Inherently, there are risks and uncertainties involved in making these judgments. Changes in circumstances and critical assumptions such as a continued weak economy, a more pronounced economic downturn or unforeseen events which affect one or more companies, industry sectors or countries could result in additional impairments in future periods for other than temporary declines in value. See also Investments in Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report and Item 1A Risk Factors Our investment portfolio is subject to several risks that may diminish the value of our invested assets and affect our profitability and Investments contained later in this item. Reinsurance Reinsurance recoverables include amounts related to paid benefits and estimated amounts related to unpaid policy and contract claims, future policyholder benefits and policyholder contract deposits. The cost of reinsurance is accounted for over the terms of the underlying reinsured policies using assumptions consistent with those used to account for the policies. Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with claim and claim adjustment expense reserves or future policy benefits reserves and are reported in our consolidated balance sheets. The ceding of insurance does not discharge our primary liability to our insureds. An estimated allowance for doubtful accounts is recorded on the basis of periodic evaluations of balances due from reinsurers, reinsurer solvency, managements experience and current economic conditions. The following table sets forth our reinsurance recoverables as of the dates indicated: As ofDecember 31, 2009 As ofDecember 31, 2008 Reinsurance recoverables $ 4,212,863 $ 4,010,170 We have used reinsurance to exit certain businesses, such as the dispositions of FFG and LTC. The reinsurance recoverables relating to these dispositions amounted to $2,790,765 and $2,616,622 at December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 51 Table of Contents In the ordinary course of business, we are involved in both the assumption and cession of reinsurance with non affiliated companies. The following table provides details of the reinsurance recoverables balance for the years ended December 31: 2009 2008 Ceded future policyholder benefits and expense $ 2,786,916 $ 2,672,754 Ceded unearned premium 698,985 637,528 Ceded claims and benefits payable 662,553 637,103 Ceded paid losses 64,409 62,785 Total $ 4,212,863 $ 4,010,170 We utilize reinsurance for loss protection and capital management, business dispositions and, in Assurant Solutions, client risk and profit sharing. See also Item 1A Risk Factors Reinsurance may not be available or adequate to protect us against losses and we are subject to the credit risk of insurers, and Item 7AQuantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Credit Risk. Retirement and Other Employee Benefits We sponsor both qualified and non qualified pension plans and a retirement health benefits plan covering our employees who meet specified eligibility requirements. The calculation of reported expense and liability associated with these plans requires an extensive use of assumptions which include the discount rate, expected return on plan assets and rate of future compensation increases. We determine these assumptions based upon currently available market and industry data, and historical performance of the plan and its assets, to aid us in selecting appropriate assumptions and valuing our related liabilities. The actuarial assumptions used in the calculation of our aggregate projected benefit obligation may vary and include an expectation of long term market appreciation in equity markets which is not changed by minor short term market fluctuations, but does change when large interim deviations occur. The assumptions we use may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates or longer or shorter life spans of the participants. See Note 22 to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our retirement and other employee benefits, including a sensitivity analysis for changes in the assumed health care cost trend rates. Contingencies We follow the requirements of the contingencies guidance, which is included within ASC Topic 450, Contingencies. This requires management to evaluate each contingent matter separately. A loss is reported if reasonably estimable and probable. We establish reserves for these contingencies at the best estimate, or, if no one estimated number within the range of possible losses is more probable than any other, we report an estimated reserve at the low end of the estimated range. Contingencies affecting the Company include litigation matters which are inherently difficult to evaluate and are subject to significant changes. Deferred Taxes Deferred income taxes are recorded for temporary differences between the financial reporting and income tax bases of assets and liabilities, based on enacted tax laws and statutory tax rates applicable to the periods in which the Company expects the temporary differences to reverse. A valuation allowance is established for deferred tax assets when it is more likely than not that an amount will not be realized. The Company has significant deferred tax assets resulting from capital loss carryforwards and other temporary differences that may reduce taxable income in future periods. The detailed components of our deferred tax assets, liabilities and valuation allowance are included in Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements. 52 Table of Contents ASC Topic 740 states that a deferred tax asset should be reduced by a valuation allowance if, based on the weight of all available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax asset will not be realized. The valuation allowance should be sufficient to reduce the deferred tax asset to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. In determining whether the Companys deferred tax asset is realizable, the Company considered all available evidence, including both positive and negative evidence. The realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the existence of sufficient taxable income of the same character during the carryback or carryforward period. The Company considered all sources of taxable income available to realize the deferred tax asset, including the future reversal of existing temporary differences, future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carry forwards, taxable income in carry back years and tax planning strategies. The Company has concluded that it is not more likely than not that it will generate sufficient taxable income of the same character in the foreseeable future to realize all of its deferred tax assets related to capital loss carryovers. During 2008, the Company recorded a tax benefit of $174,864 upon the sale of a non operating subsidiary, United Family Life Insurance Company (UFLIC), and an offsetting valuation allowance of $90,000. During 2009, the Company recognized $16,000 of other comprehensive income which reduced the valuation allowance to $74,000. The decrease in the valuation allowance was primarily related to additional unrealized gains in the Companys investment portfolio. The gross deferred tax asset for cumulative realized and unrealized capital losses as of December 31, 2009 is $306,300, including the carryover from the loss on the sale of UFLIC. The realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the existence of sufficient taxable income of the same character during the carry back or carry forward period. U.S. tax rules mandate that capital losses can only be recovered against capital gains. An example of capital gains would be gains from the sale of investments. The Company is dependent upon having capital gain income in the foreseeable future to use the capital loss carryforward in its entirety. To support the capital deferred tax asset, the Company is able to rely on future taxable capital gain income from gross unrealized gains in its investment portfolio, which has increased from the prior years unprecedented market declines. The Company is also able to rely on the use of various tax planning strategies to forecast taxable capital gains in the foreseeable future. ASC Topic 740 indicates that a tax planning strategy is an action that management ordinarily might not take, but would take, if necessary, to realize a tax benefit for a carryforward before it expires. These are actions that are prudent and feasible and would result in the realization of deferred tax assets. Examples include, but are not limited to, changing the character of taxable or deductible amounts from ordinary income or loss to capital gain or loss or accelerating taxable amounts. The gross deferred tax asset related to net operating loss carryforwards on international subsidiaries is $45,056. It is more likely than not that some of this asset will not be realized in the foreseeable future. As such, a cumulative valuation allowance of $6,834 has been recorded as of December 31, 2009. The Company is dependent on income of the same character in the same jurisdiction to support the deferred tax assets related to net operating loss carryforwards of international subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2009, the Company has a cumulative valuation allowance of $81,688 against deferred tax assets as it is managements assessment that it is more likely than not that $81,688 of deferred tax assets will not be realized. The Company believes it is more likely than not that the remainder of its deferred tax assets will be realized in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, other than noted herein for capital loss carryovers and international subsidiaries, a valuation allowance has not been established. Future reversal of the valuation allowance will be recognized either when the benefit is realized or when it has been determined that it is more likely than not that the benefit will be realized. Depending on the nature of 53 Table of Contents the taxable income that results in a reversal of the valuation allowance, and on managements judgment, the reversal will be recognized either through other comprehensive income (loss) or through continuing operations in the statement of operations. Likewise, if the Company determines that it is not more likely than not that it would be able to realize all or part of the deferred tax asset in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance would be recorded through a charge to continuing operations in the statement of operations in the period such determination is made. In determining the appropriate valuation allowance, certain judgments are made by management relating to recoverability of deferred tax assets, use of tax loss and tax credit carryforwards, levels of expected future taxable income and available tax planning strategies. The assumptions in making these judgments are updated periodically by management based on current business conditions that affect the Company and overall economic conditions. These management judgments are therefore subject to change based on factors that include, but are not limited to, changes in expected capital gain income in the foreseeable future and the ability of the Company to successfully execute its tax planning strategies. Please see Item 1A Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Company On anticipated changes in tax provisions or additional income tax liabilities could materially and adversely affect our results for more information. Valuation and Recoverability of Goodwill Goodwill represented $926,398 and $1,001,899 of our $25,841,796 and $24,514,586 of total assets as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We review our goodwill annually in the fourth quarter for impairment, or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist. We regularly assess whether any indicators of impairment exist. Such indicators include, but are not limited to, a sustained significant decline in our share price and market capitalization or a significant decline in our expected future cash flows due to changes in company specific factors or the broader business climate. The evaluation of such factors requires considerable judgment by management. Any adverse change in these factors could have a significant impact on the recoverability of goodwill and could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. When required, we test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level. Following the goodwill guidance, which is included within ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other, we have concluded that our reporting units for goodwill testing are equivalent to our reported operating segments, excluding the Corporate and Other segment. The following table illustrates the amount of goodwill assigned to each reporting unit: December 31, 2009 2008 Assurant Solutions $ 380,291 $ 372,792 Assurant Specialty Property 239,726 239,726 Assurant Health 204,303 204,303 Assurant Employee Benefits 102,078 185,078 Total $ 926,398 $ 1,001,899 For each reporting unit, we first compare its estimated fair value with its net book value. If the estimated fair value exceeds its net book value, goodwill is deemed not to be impaired, and no further testing is necessary. If the net book value exceeds its estimated fair value, we then perform a second test to measure the amount of impairment, if any. To determine the amount of any impairment, we determine the implied fair value of goodwill in the same manner as if the reporting unit were being acquired in a business combination. Specifically, we determine the fair value of all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, including any unrecognized intangible assets, in a hypothetical calculation that yields the implied fair value of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the recorded goodwill, we would record an impairment charge for the difference. 54 Table of Contents The following describes the valuation methodologies used in both 2009 and 2008 to derive the estimated fair value of the reporting units. For each reporting unit we identify a group of peer companies, which have operations that are as similar as possible to the reporting unit. Certain of our reporting units have a very limited number of peer companies. A Guideline Company Method is used to value the reporting unit based upon its relative performance to its peer companies, based on several measures, including price to trailing 12 month earnings, price to projected earnings, price to tangible net worth and return on equity. A Dividend Discount Method (DDM) is used to value the reporting units based upon the expected earnings available for distribution over future periods. The Company determined the estimated fair value of the reporting unit considering distributable earnings which were estimated from operating plans. Operating plan cash flows were then discounted using a market participant weighted average cost of capital estimated for a reporting unit. After discounting the future discrete earnings to their present value, the Company estimated the terminal value attributable to the years beyond the discrete operating plan period. The discounted terminal value was then added to the aggregate discounted distributable earnings from the discrete operating plan period to estimate the fair value of the reporting unit. A Guideline Transaction Method values the reporting unit based on available data concerning the purchase prices paid in acquisitions of companies operating in the insurance industry. The application of certain financial multiples calculated from these transactions provides an indication of estimated fair value of the reporting units. While all three valuation methodologies are considered in assessing fair value, the DDM received the highest weighting of the three methodologies, since it uses the earnings capacity of a business which is generally considered the most important factor in the valuation of a business enterprise. Also, the DDM received the highest weight given recent dislocations in the economy, the scarcity of M&A transactions in the insurance marketplace and the relative lack of directly comparable companies particularly for Assurant Solutions. In the fourth quarter, we conducted our annual assessment of goodwill using the methodologies discussed above. After completing the Step 1 analysis, we determined that three of the four reporting units had estimated fair values in excess of their net book values, however, the Assurant Employee Benefits reporting unit had an estimated fair value less than its net book value. Accordingly, Management performed a Step 2 test for Assurant Employee Benefits. Step 2 utilizes acquisition accounting guidance and requires the fair value calculation of all individual assets and liabilities of the reporting unit (excluding goodwill, but including any unrecognized intangible assets). The net fair value of assets less liabilities is then compared to the reporting units total estimated fair value as calculated in Step 1. The excess of the estimated fair value over the net asset value equals the implied fair value of goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is then compared to the carrying value of goodwill to determine the reporting units goodwill impairment. Based on our Step 2 test it was determined that $83,000 of goodwill related to the Assurant Employee Benefits reporting unit was impaired, resulting in a non cash charge. This impairment reflects both a challenging near term growth environment for the Assurant Employee Benefits reporting unit and an increased net book value, primarily related to its investment portfolio, which has increased in value by $137,600 (after tax) from prior year. Management remains confident in the long term prospects of the Assurant Employee Benefits reporting unit. The three reporting units that passed Step 1, Assurant Solutions, Assurant Specialty Property and Assurant Health had estimated fair values that exceeded their net book values by 9.4%, 35.6% and 20.6%, respectively. The determination of fair value of our reporting units requires significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions primarily include, but are not limited to, earnings and required capital projections discussed above, discount rates, terminal growth rates, operating income and dividend forecasts for each reporting unit and the weighting assigned to the results of each of the three valuation methods described above. 55 Table of Contents Due to the inherent uncertainty involved in making these estimates, actual results could differ materially from those estimates. We evaluated the significant assumptions used to determine the estimated fair values of each reporting unit, both individually and in the aggregate and concluded they are reasonable. Changes in certain assumptions could have a significant impact on the goodwill impairment assessment. For example, an increase of the discount rate of 100 basis points, with all other assumptions held constant, for Assurant Solutions, would result in its estimated fair value being less than its net book value as of December 31, 2009. Likewise, a reduction of 150 basis points in the terminal growth rate, with all other assumptions held constant, for Assurant Solutions would result in its estimated fair value being less than its net book value as of December 31, 2009. It would take more significant movements in our estimates and assumptions in order for Assurant Health and Assurant Specialty Propertys estimated fair values to be less than their net book values. Should weak market conditions continue for an extended period or should the operating results of any of our reporting units decline substantially compared to projected results, we could determine that we need to record an additional non cash impairment charge related to goodwill in any of our reporting units. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Adopted On July 1, 2009, the Company adopted the new guidance on GAAP, which is within ASC Topic 105, GAAP. The new guidance establishes a single source of authoritative accounting and reporting guidance recognized by the FASB for nongovernmental entities (the Codification). The Codification does not change current GAAP, but is intended to simplify user access to all authoritative GAAP by providing all the authoritative literature related to a particular topic in one place. All existing accounting standard documents will be superseded and all other accounting literature not included in the Codification will be considered non authoritative. The adoption of the new guidance did not have an impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. References to accounting guidance contained in the Companys consolidated financial statements and disclosures have been updated to reflect terminology consistent with the Codification. Plain English references to the accounting guidance have been made along with references to the ASC topic number and name. On December 31, 2009, the Company adopted the new guidance on postretirement benefit plan assets, which is within ASC Topic 715, Compensation Retirement Benefits. This new guidance requires companies to make additional disclosures about plan assets for defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The additional disclosure requirements include how investment allocation decisions are made, the major categories of plan assets and the inputs and valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of plan assets. The adoption of this new guidance did not have an impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. See Note 22. On October 1, 2009, the Company adopted the new guidance on measuring the fair value of liabilities, which is within ASC Topic 820. When the quoted price in an active market for an identical liability is not available, this new guidance requires that either the quoted price of the identical or similar liability when traded as an asset or another valuation technique that is consistent with the fair value measurements and disclosures guidance be used to fair value the liability. The adoption of this new guidance did not have an impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. On June 30, 2009, the Company adopted the new subsequent events guidance, which is within ASC Topic 855, Subsequent Events. This new guidance establishes general standards of accounting for and disclosures of events that occur after the balance sheet date but before financial statements are issued or are available to be issued. The adoption of the new guidance did not have an impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. See Note 27. On April 1, 2009, the Company adopted the new other than temporary impairments (OTTI) guidance, which is within ASC Topic 320. This new guidance amends the previous guidance for debt securities and 56 Table of Contents modifies the presentation and disclosure requirements for debt and equity securities. In addition, it amends the requirement for an entity to positively assert the intent and ability to hold a debt security to recovery to determine whether an OTTI exists and replaces this provision with the assertion that an entity does not intend to sell or it is not more likely than not that the entity will be required to sell a security prior to recovery of its amortized cost basis. Additionally, this new guidance modifies the presentation of certain OTTI debt securities to only present the impairment loss within the results of operations that represents the credit loss associated with the OTTI with the remaining impairment loss being presented within other comprehensive income (loss) (OCI). At adoption, the Company recorded a cumulative effect adjustment to reclassify the non credit component of previously recognized OTTI securities which resulted in an increase of $43,117 (after tax) in retained earnings and a decrease of $43,117 (after tax) in accumulated OCI (AOCI). See Note 5 for further information. On April 1, 2009, the Company adopted the new guidance on determining fair value in illiquid markets, which is within ASC Topic 820. This new guidance clarifies how to estimate fair value when the volume and level of activity for an asset or liability have significantly decreased. This new guidance also clarifies how to identify circumstances indicating that a transaction is not orderly. Under this new guidance, significant decreases in the volume and level of activity of an asset or liability, in relation to normal market activity, requires further evaluation of transactions or quoted prices and exercise of significant judgment in arriving at fair values. This new guidance also requires additional interim and annual disclosures. The adoption of this new guidance did not have an impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. On April 1, 2009, the Company adopted the new fair value of financial instruments guidance, which is within ASC Topic 825, Financial Instruments. This new guidance requires disclosures about the fair value of financial instruments already required in annual financial statements to be included within interim financial statements. This new guidance also requires disclosure of the methods and assumptions used to estimate fair value. The adoption of this new guidance did not have an impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. See Note 6 for further information. On January 1, 2009, the Company adopted the revised business combinations guidance, which is within ASC Topic 805, Business Combinations. The revised guidance retains the fundamental requirements of the previous guidance in that the acquisition method of accounting be used for all business combinations, that an acquirer be identified for each business combination and for goodwill to be recognized and measured as a residual. The revised guidance expands the definition of transactions and events that qualify as business combinations to all transactions and other events in which one entity obtains control over one or more other businesses. The revised guidance broadens the fair value measurement and recognition of assets acquired, liabilities assumed and interests transferred as a result of business combinations. It also increases the disclosure requirements for business combinations in the consolidated financial statements. The adoption of the revised guidance did not have an impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. However, should the Company enter into any business combination in 2010 or beyond, our financial position or results of operations could incur a significantly different impact than had it recorded the acquisition under the previous business combinations guidance. Earnings volatility could result, depending on the terms of the acquisition. On January 1, 2009, the Company adopted the new consolidations guidance, which is within ASC Topic 810, Consolidation. The new guidance requires that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary be separately reported within equity and the amount of consolidated net income attributable to the noncontrolling interest be presented in the statement of operations. The new guidance also calls for consistency in reporting changes in the parents ownership interest in a subsidiary and necessitates fair value measurement of any noncontrolling equity investment retained in a deconsolidation. The adoption of the new guidance did not have an impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. On January 1, 2009, the Company applied the fair value measurements and disclosures guidance, which is within ASC Topic 820, Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures, for all non financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a non recurring basis. The application of this guidance for those assets and liabilities did not have an impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. The Companys 57 Table of Contents non financial assets measured at fair value on a non recurring basis include goodwill and intangible assets. In a business combination, the non financial assets and liabilities of the acquired company would be measured at fair value in accordance with the fair value measurements and disclosures guidance. The requirements of this guidance include using an exit price based on an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date assuming the highest and best use of the asset by market participants. To perform a market valuation, the Company is required to use a market, income or cost approach valuation technique(s). The Company performed its annual impairment analyses of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets in the fourth quarter of 2009. Step 1 of the impairment test indicated that the net book value of the Assurant Employee Benefits (AEB) reporting unit was greater than its estimated fair value. Based on the results of the Step 1 test, the Company was required to measure the fair value of goodwill of the AEB reporting unit in Step 2 of the impairment test. As mentioned above, the application of this guidance which was used to measure the fair value of goodwill of the AEB reporting unit in Step 2 of the impairment test did not have an impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations during 2009. On January 1, 2009, the Company adopted the new earnings per share guidance on participating securities and the two class method, which is within ASC Topic 260, Earnings Per Share. The new guidance requires unvested share based payment awards that have non forfeitable rights to dividend or dividend equivalents to be treated as participating securities. Therefore, the Companys restricted stock and restricted stock units which have non forfeitable rights to dividends are included in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share under the two class method. All prior period earnings per share data presented have been adjusted retrospectively. The adoption of the new guidance did not have a material impact on the Companys basic and diluted earnings per share calculations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007. See Note 24 for further information. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In June 2009, the FASB issued new guidance on transfers of financial assets, which is within ASC Topic 860, Transfers and Servicing. This new guidance amends the derecognition guidance in the Codification and eliminates the exemption from consolidation for qualifying special purpose entities. This new guidance is effective for transfers of financial assets occurring in fiscal years beginning after November 15, 2009 and in interim periods within those fiscal years. Therefore, the Company is required to adopt this guidance on January 1, 2010. The adoption of this new guidance will not have an impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. In June 2009, the FASB issued new guidance on the accounting for a variable interest entity (VIE), which is within ASC Topic 810. This new guidance amends the consolidation guidance applicable to VIEs to require a qualitative assessment in the determination of the primary beneficiary of the VIE, to require an ongoing reconsideration of the primary beneficiary, to amend the events that trigger a reassessment of whether an entity is a VIE and to change the consideration of kick out rights in determining if an entity is a VIE. This new guidance provides two transition alternatives: (i) retrospective application with a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the first year adjusted; or (ii) application as of the date of adoption with a cumulative effect adjustment to retained earnings recognized on that date. This new guidance is effective as of the beginning of the Companys first fiscal year beginning after November 15, 2009, and for interim periods within those fiscal years. Therefore, the Company is required to adopt this guidance on January 1, 2010. The adoption of this new guidance will not have a material impact on the Companys financial position and results of operations. In September 2009, the FASB issued new guidance on multiple deliverable revenue arrangements, which is within ASC Topic 605, Revenue Recognition. This new guidance requires entities to use their best estimate of the selling price of a deliverable within a multiple deliverable revenue arrangement if the entity and other entities do not sell the deliverable separate from the other deliverables within the arrangement. This new guidance requires both qualitative and quantitative disclosures. This new guidance will be effective for new or materially modified arrangements in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. Earlier application is permitted as of the 58 Table of Contents beginning of a fiscal year. Assuming the Company does not apply the guidance early, the Company is required to adopt this new guidance on January 1, 2011. The Company is currently evaluating the requirements of this new guidance and the potential impact, if any, on the Companys financial position and results of operations. Results of Operations Assurant Consolidated Overview The table below presents information regarding our consolidated results of operations: For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Revenues: Net earned premiums and other considerations $ 7,550,335 $ 7,925,348 $ 7,407,730 Net investment income 698,838 774,347 799,073 Net realized losses on investments (53,597 ) (428,679 ) (62,220 ) Amortization of deferred gains on disposal of businesses 22,461 29,412 33,139 Fees and other income 482,464 300,800 275,793 Total revenues 8,700,501 8,601,228 8,453,515 Benefits, losses and expenses: Policyholder benefits 3,867,982 4,019,147 3,712,711 Selling, underwriting and general expenses (1) 3,979,244 3,957,850 3,668,586 Interest expense 60,669 60,953 61,178 Total benefits, losses and expenses 7,907,895 8,037,950 7,442,475 Income before provision for income taxes and goodwill impairment 792,606 563,278 1,011,040 Provision for income taxes 279,032 115,482 357,294 Net income before goodwill impairment 513,574 447,796 653,746 Goodwill impairment 83,000 Net income $ 430,574 $ 447,796 $ 653,746 (1) Includes amortization of DAC and VOBA and underwriting, general and administrative expenses. The following discussion provides a general overall analysis of how the consolidated results were affected by our four operating segments and our Corporate and Other segment for the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 (Twelve Months 2009), twelve months ended December 31, 2008 (Twelve Months 2008) and twelve months ended December 31, 2007 (Twelve Months 2007). Please see the discussion that follows, for each of these segments, for a more detailed analysis of the fluctuations. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2008 Net income decreased $17,222, or 4%, to $430,574 for Twelve Months 2009 from $447,796 for Twelve Months 2008. The decrease was primarily due to a $(30,220) net loss for Assurant Health for Twelve Months 2009 compared with net income of $120,254 for Twelve Months 2008. In addition, Twelve Months 2009 includes a non cash goodwill impairment charge of $83,000. These negative items were partially offset by lower net realized losses on investments of $243,803 (after tax) as Twelve Months 2009 includes $34,838 (after tax) compared with $278,641 (after tax) in Twelve Months 2008. 59 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2007 Net income decreased $205,950, or 32%, to $447,796 for Twelve Months 2008 from $653,746 for Twelve Months 2007. The decrease was primarily due to our Corporate and Other segment, which had $278,641 (after tax) of net realized losses on investments in 2008, compared with $40,443 (after tax) of net realized losses on investments in 2007. The net realized losses in 2008 and 2007 include $221,099 (after tax) and $31,320 (after tax), respectively, of realized losses from the write down of other than temporary declines in our investment portfolio. These declines were partially offset by an increase of $86,928 in Twelve Months 2008, consisting of a $2,064 gain (after tax) and a $84,864 related tax benefit, associated with the sale of UFLIC, during 2008. 60 Table of Contents Assurant Solutions Overview The table below presents information regarding Assurant Solutions segment results of operations: For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Revenues: Net earned premiums and other considerations $ 2,671,041 $ 2,813,407 $ 2,530,445 Net investment income 391,229 420,615 427,331 Fees and other income 216,550 182,508 159,211 Total revenues 3,278,820 3,416,530 3,116,987 Benefits, losses and expenses: Policyholder benefits 1,029,151 1,198,758 1,073,858 Selling, underwriting and general expenses 2,055,348 2,041,892 1,830,709 Total benefits, losses and expenses 3,084,499 3,240,650 2,904,567 Segment income before provision for income taxes 194,321 175,880 212,420 Provision for income taxes 74,269 63,697 68,499 Segment net income $ 120,052 $ 112,183 $ 143,921 Net earned premiums and other considerations: Domestic: Credit $ 241,293 $ 279,497 $ 303,231 Service contracts 1,411,953 1,364,886 1,156,991 Other (1) 84,939 60,159 62,709 Total Domestic 1,738,185 1,704,542 1,522,931 International: Credit 320,462 368,442 376,709 Service contracts 415,694 355,248 249,803 Other (1) 15,731 20,175 39,144 Total International 751,887 743,865 665,656 Preneed (4) 180,969 365,000 341,858 Total $ 2,671,041 $ 2,813,407 $ 2,530,445 Fees and other income: Domestic: Debt protection $ 40,058 $ 34,459 $ 31,093 Service contracts 102,410 79,298 70,709 Other (1) 18,534 26,661 25,039 Total Domestic 161,002 140,418 126,841 International 27,730 32,919 22,168 Preneed (4) 27,818 9,171 10,202 Total $ 216,550 $ 182,508 $ 159,211 Gross written premiums (2): Domestic: Credit $ 526,532 $ 604,101 $ 656,975 Service contracts 1,012,670 1,530,284 1,828,048 Other (1) 92,111 71,393 85,005 Total Domestic 1,631,313 2,205,778 2,570,028 International: Credit 843,225 827,457 833,894 Service contracts 462,964 477,652 422,669 Other (1) 26,567 27,381 46,590 Total International 1,332,756 1,332,490 1,303,153 Total $ 2,964,069 $ 3,538,268 $ 3,873,181 Preneed (face sales) $ 512,366 $ 445,313 $ 395,790 Combined ratio (3): Domestic 97.2 % 100.6 % 101.1 % International 110.7 % 108.2 % 105.1 % 61 Table of Contents (1) This includes emerging products and run off products lines. (2) Gross written premiums does not necessarily translate to an equal amount of subsequent net earned premiums since Assurant Solutions reinsures a portion of its premiums to insurance subsidiaries of its clients. (3) The combined ratio is equal to total benefits, losses and expenses divided by net earned premiums and other considerations and fees and other income excluding the preneed business. (4) Effective January 1, 2009, new preneed life insurance policies in which death benefit adjustments are determined at the discretion of the Company are accounted for as universal life contracts. For contracts sold prior to January 1, 2009, these preneed life insurance policies were accounted for and will continue to be accounted for under the limited pay insurance guidance. In accordance with the universal life insurance guidance, income earned on new preneed life insurance policies is presented within policy fee income net of policyholder benefits. Under the limited pay insurance guidance, the consideration received on preneed policies is presented separately as net earned premiums, with policyholder benefits expense being shown separately. The change from reporting certain preneed life insurance policies in accordance with the universal life insurance guidance versus the limited pay insurance guidance is not material to the statement of operations or balance sheet. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2008 Net Income Segment net income increased $7,869, or 7%, to $120,052 for Twelve Months 2009 from $112,183 for Twelve Months 2008. The increase was primarily the result of favorable underwriting results in our domestic service contract business from existing and run off clients. Partially offsetting this increase was unfavorable loss experience in our UK credit insurance business primarily resulting from higher unemployment rates in the UK compared with the prior year, a $19,101 (after tax) decrease in net investment income and $10,800 (after tax) of restructuring charges in our domestic and international businesses. Twelve Months 2008 included charges of $24,700 (after tax) related to our exit from the Denmark market, client bankruptcies, and a loss on a discontinued product in Brazil which were partially offset by $9,900 (after tax) of income from client related settlements. Total Revenues Total revenues decreased $137,710, or 4%, to $3,278,820 for Twelve Months 2009 from $3,416,530 for Twelve Months 2008. The decrease is mainly attributable to reduced net earned premiums and other considerations of $142,366, primarily resulting from the application of universal life insurance accounting guidance, in our Preneed business. Absent this item, net earned premiums increased $35,000, or 1%, due to our domestic and international service contract business from premiums written in prior periods and from a temporary involuntary unemployment product sold by a US auto manufacturer, which started and ended during the second quarter of 2009. This increase was partially offset by unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates as the U.S. dollar strengthened against international currencies combined with the continued runoff of our domestic credit insurance business. Also contributing to the decrease in revenues was lower net investment income of $29,386, or 7%, primarily due to lower average invested assets and lower investment yields. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in fees and other income of $34,042, or 19%, primarily from the application of the universal life insurance accounting guidance for our Preneed business and the continued growth of our service contract businesses resulting from acquisitions made in the latter part of 2008. Gross written premiums decreased $574,199, or 16%, to $2,964,069 for Twelve Months 2009 from $3,538,268 for Twelve Months 2008. This decrease was driven primarily by lower domestic service contract business of $517,614, primarily due to a client bankruptcy and decreased retail and auto sales due to the slowdown in consumer spending. Gross written premiums from our domestic credit insurance business decreased $77,569, due to the continued runoff of this product line. Gross written premiums from our international service contract business decreased $14,688, primarily the result of unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates. This was partially offset by growth from both new and existing clients, consistent with our international expansion strategy. Gross written premiums from our international credit business increased $15,768 primarily driven by growth in several countries due to strong growth from new and existing clients. This was partially offset by unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates and the slowdown in the UK mortgage market. Preneed face sales were $67,053 higher due to growth from our exclusive distribution partnership with SCI and increased sales initiatives. 62 Table of Contents Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses decreased $156,151, or 5%, to $3,084,499 for Twelve Months 2009 from $3,240,650 for Twelve Months 2008. Policyholder benefits decreased $169,607, primarily due to the above mentioned application of universal life insurance accounting guidance, in our Preneed business. Also contributing to the decrease were lower losses from a discontinued credit life product in Brazil and improved loss experience in our domestic service contract business from existing and run off clients. This was partially offset by unfavorable loss experience in our UK credit insurance business primarily resulting from higher unemployment rates than the prior year. During the Twelve Months 2009, we ceased distributing unemployment insurance related products through the internet but losses from similar products sold through more traditional distribution channels increased as a result of the prolonged high unemployment in the UK. Selling, underwriting and general expenses increased $13,456. General expenses increased $82,616, primarily due to higher expenses associated with recent domestic extended service contract business acquisitions and restructuring charges relating to our international businesses of $10,600 and $5,900 for our domestic businesses. Commissions, taxes, licenses and fees, of which amortization of DAC is a component, decreased $69,160, primarily due to the corresponding favorable change in foreign exchange rates in our international business and reduced commission expense resulting from acquisitions completed in the latter part of 2008. Also contributing to the decrease was the above mentioned application of universal life insurance accounting guidance in our Preneed business. These declines in Twelve Months 2009 were partially offset by an $18,000 reduction in commission expense related to the accrual of contractual receivables established from certain domestic service contract clients recorded in Twelve Months 2008. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2007 Net Income Segment net income decreased $31,738, or 22%, to $112,183 for Twelve Months 2008 from $143,921 for Twelve Months 2007. Twelve Months 2008 net income decreased due to charges associated with client bankruptcies of $8,058 (after tax) and costs associated with our decision to exit business operations in Denmark of $9,651 (after tax). The comparative decrease is also due in part to $12,600 (after tax) of income recognized during 2007 related to settlement fees received from the sale of marketing rights for the independent U.S. preneed business and $8,900 (after tax) from the completed clients commission reconciliation project partially offset by a settlement with a client of $3,431. Absent these unusual items, net income increased $4,040 due to improved underwriting results from our domestic businesses partially offset by less favorable loss experience in our international businesses, specifically our UK operations, and continued costs to support our international expansion. Net investment income decreased $4,365 (after tax) primarily attributable to reduced investment income from lower distributions from real estate joint venture partnerships of approximately $9,300 (after tax) partially offset by an increase of approximately $5,000 (after tax) resulting from higher average invested assets attributable to growth in our international and domestic service contract business. The decrease in real estate joint venture partnership income is due to greater sales of underlying properties in Twelve Months 2007 compared with Twelve Months 2008 given more favorable real estate market conditions in 2007. These decreases were partially offset by earnings from acquisitions made in our domestic service contract business in the latter part of 2008. On September 26, 2008, the Company acquired the Warranty Management Group business from GE. The Company paid GE $140,000 in cash for the sale, transfer and conveyance of certain assets and assumed certain liabilities. As part of the acquisition, the Company entered into a new 10 year agreement to market extended warranties and service contracts on GE branded major appliances in the U.S. In a separate transaction, GE paid the Company $115,000 in cash and the Company eliminated DAC by $106,000 and a receivable from GE of $9,000 in connection with the termination of the existing strategic alliance. Under the pre existing relationship, the Company sold extended warranties directly to GE appliance purchasers and through leading retailers and paid commissions to GE. After the acquisition, the Company 63 Table of Contents assumed full responsibility for operating the extended warranty business it previously co managed and shared with GE. Total Revenues Total revenues increased $299,543, or 10%, to $3,416,530 for Twelve Months 2008 from $3,116,987 for Twelve Months 2007. The increase in revenues is primarily attributable to increased net earned premiums and other considerations of $282,962. This increase is primarily due to growth in our domestic and international service contract businesses. The growth is driven by higher earnings from extended service contract premiums written in prior periods. We also experienced growth in our preneed business due to the acquisition of Mayflower in late 2007 and earnings from the existing exclusive distribution partnership with SCI funeral homes. These increases were partially offset by the continued runoff of our domestic credit insurance and the preneed independent US businesses. Also contributing to the increase in revenues was an increase in fees and other income of $23,297, or 15%, primarily from various international acquisitions made during the latter part of 2007 combined with the continued growth of our service contract businesses. Net investment income decreased $6,716, or 2%, due primarily to net investment income of $15,724 recognized in Twelve Months of 2007 from real estate joint venture partnerships compared with $1,450 in Twelve Months ended 2008. Absent this investment income from real estate joint venture partnerships, net investment income increased $7,558, or 2%, primarily attributable to higher average invested assets from growth in our domestic and international service contract businesses. Gross written premiums decreased $334,913, or 9%, to $3,538,268 for Twelve Months 2008 from $3,873,181 for Twelve Months 2007. Gross written premiums from our domestic service contract business decreased $297,764, primarily due to closings of certain client retail stores and the impact of lower retail sales from other clients, partially offset by increases in premium from new clients. Gross written premiums from our domestic credit insurance business decreased $52,874 due to the continued runoff of this product line. Gross written premiums from our international credit business decreased $6,437 primarily driven by the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates as the U.S. dollar strengthened against international currencies and slowdown in the UK mortgage market due to credit difficulties. This was partially offset by growth in other countries from increased marketing efforts and strong client production. Gross written premiums in our international service contract business increased $54,983 attributable to growth with both new and existing clients, which is consistent with our international expansion. We experienced an increase in preneed face sales of $49,523 primarily due to new business generated from former Alderwoods funeral homes and growth from our existing exclusive distribution partnership with SCI. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses increased $336,083, or 12%, to $3,240,650 for Twelve Months 2008 from $2,904,567 for Twelve Months 2007. Policyholder benefits increased $124,900, primarily driven by growth in net earned premiums from our domestic and international service contract and preneed businesses, combined with unfavorable loss experience in a credit life product in Brazil and unfavorable loss experience in the UK market driven by higher unemployment rates. Selling, underwriting and general expenses increased $211,183. Commissions, taxes, licenses and fees, of which amortization of DAC is a component, increased $133,263, primarily due to an increase in the overall commission rates caused by the change in business mix. This was evidenced by higher earnings in our service contract business, which has higher commission rates, compared to the lower commission rates on the decreasing domestic credit business. In addition, contributing to the increase was approximately $14,000 of income recorded in Twelve Months 2007 from our completed client commission reconciliation project and a charge to commissions expense related to our decision to exit the Denmark market in Fourth Quarter 2008. General expenses increased $68,284, partially due to higher expenses associated with the growth of the domestic service contract business as well as higher expenses associated with continued investment in international expansion and increased expenses from acquisitions made during the latter part of 2007 through end of 2008. Additionally, expenses increased due to a receivable charge of $9,632 resulting from client bankruptcies and a clients announcement of a court ordered liquidation of assets. 64 Table of Contents Assurant Specialty Property Overview The table below presents information regarding Assurant Specialty Propertys segment results of operations: For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Revenues: Net earned premiums and other considerations $ 1,947,529 $ 2,048,238 $ 1,682,266 Net investment income 110,337 123,043 100,210 Fees and other income 56,890 50,000 51,256 Total revenues 2,114,756 2,221,281 1,833,732 Benefits, losses and expenses: Policyholder benefits 664,182 785,403 548,873 Selling, underwriting and general expenses 832,528 817,848 701,958 Total benefits, losses and expenses 1,496,710 1,603,251 1,250,831 Segment income before provision for income tax 618,046 618,030 582,901 Provision for income taxes 212,049 212,827 203,661 Segment net income $ 405,997 $ 405,203 $ 379,240 Net earned premiums and other considerations by major product groupings: Homeowners (creditor placed and voluntary) $ 1,369,031 $ 1,471,012 $ 1,188,090 Manufactured housing (creditor placed and voluntary) 219,960 225,209 209,104 Other (1) 358,538 352,017 285,072 Total $ 1,947,529 $ 2,048,238 $ 1,682,266 Ratios: Loss ratio (2) 34.1 % 38.3 % 32.6 % Expense ratio (3) 41.5 % 39.0 % 40.5 % Combined ratio (4) 74.7 % 76.4 % 72.2 % (1) This primarily includes flood, miscellaneous specialty property and renters insurance products. (2) The loss ratio is equal to policyholder benefits divided by net earned premiums and other considerations. (3) The expense ratio is equal to selling, underwriting and general expenses divided by net earned premiums and other considerations and fees and other income. (4) The combined ratio is equal to total benefits, losses and expenses divided by net earned premiums and other considerations and fees and other income. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2008 Net Income Segment net income was relatively flat at $405,997 for Twelve Months 2009 compared to $405,203 for Twelve Months 2008. However, Twelve Months 2008 included $86,200 (after tax), net of reinsurance, of losses from hurricanes Gustav and Ike, $8,600 (after tax) in catastrophe reinsurance reinstatement premiums and $5,050 (after tax) in catastrophe losses from California wildfires. There were no reportable catastrophe losses in Twelve Months 2009, however, net earned premiums decreased $65,461 (after tax) compared with Twelve Months 2008 primarily related to reduced real estate owned insurance business and higher reinsurance costs. 65 Table of Contents Total Revenues Total revenues decreased $106,525, or 5%, to $2,114,756 for Twelve Months 2009 from $2,221,281 for Twelve Months 2008. The decrease in revenues is primarily due to decreased net earned premiums of $100,709, or 5%. The decrease is primarily attributable to lower creditor placed homeowners insurance net earned premiums due to decreased premiums from real estate owned property, several lost clients due to the financial industry consolidation and a $29,434 increase in catastrophe reinsurance costs. Increased placement rates in our non real estate owned creditor placed business and increased average insured values partially offset these negative impacts. While our leading position in the creditor placed homeowner market allows us to retain many loan portfolios when they are combined, industry consolidation will affect both our revenues and net income, as margins come under pressure. We also expect that additional premiums in certain client portfolios will be reinsured in 2010, thus reducing our net earned premiums. We have added 75,000 subprime loans in the fourth quarter of 2009 from industry consolidation and will add 80,000 subprime loans in the first quarter of 2010 from a new client. This will help partially offset 230,000 subprime loans we lost in January 2010 due to industry consolidation. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses decreased $106,541 or 7%, to $1,496,710 for Twelve Months 2009 from $1,603,251 for Twelve Months 2008. The decrease was due to lower policyholder benefits of $121,221 partially offset by higher selling, underwriting, and general expenses of $14,680. The decrease in policyholder benefits is due to a decrease in reportable catastrophe losses of $132,600, net of reinsurance, related to Hurricanes Ike and Gustav and $7,770 related to California wildfire losses in Twelve Months 2008. There were no reportable catastrophe losses in Twelve Months 2009. Commissions, taxes, licenses and fees decreased $32,022, primarily due to the decline in net earned premiums. General expenses increased $46,702 primarily due to additional services provided to our clients, such as loss drafts, along with investment in technology and infrastructure initiatives. In addition, Twelve Months 2009 includes $3,800 in severance costs related to a reduction in force, including the closure of our California operations center. Twelve Months 2009 combined ratio was 74.7% compared with 76.4% for Twelve Months 2008. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2007 Net Income Segment net income increased $25,963, or 7%, to $405,203 for Twelve Months 2008 from $379,240 for Twelve Months 2007. The increase in net income is primarily due to higher net earned premiums from our creditor placed homeowners insurance and our ability to leverage the benefits of scale. Net income also improved due to an increase in net investment income of $14,841 (after tax) as a result of higher average invested assets resulting from the continued growth of the business and $17,115 (after tax) of lower losses from California wildfires in Twelve Months 2008 compared with Twelve Months 2007. Net income for Twelve Months 2008 increased despite $86,200 (after tax), net of reinsurance, of losses from hurricanes Gustav and Ike and $8,600 (after tax) in catastrophe reinsurance reinstatement premiums. Total Revenues Total revenues increased $387,549, or 21%, to $2,221,281 for Twelve Months 2008 from $1,833,732 for Twelve Months 2007. The increase in revenues is primarily due to increased net earned premiums of $365,972, or 22%. The increase is attributable to the growth of creditor placed homeowners insurance which was primarily driven by an increase in average insured value of properties and increased percentage of policies placed per loans tracked. Partially offsetting these factors was a net decrease in tracked loans due to continued market consolidation, and an overall decline in sub prime loans. Also, net investment income increased $22,833, or 23% in Twelve Months 2008 compared to Twelve Months 2007, due to higher average invested assets. 66 Table of Contents Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses increased $352,420, or 28%, to $1,603,251 for Twelve Months 2008 from $1,250,831 for Twelve Months 2007. This increase was due to an increase in policyholder benefits of $236,530 and higher selling, underwriting, and general expenses of $115,890. The increase in policyholder benefits is primarily attributable to losses incurred relating to hurricanes Gustav and Ike of $132,600, net of reinsurance, and corresponding growth in creditor placed homeowners insurance. This was partially offset by $26,331 of lower losses from California wildfires in Twelve Months 2008 compared with Twelve Months 2007. The combined ratio increased to 76.4% from 72.2% due to the losses from hurricanes Gustav and Ike, partially offset by our continued ability to leverage benefit of scale. Commissions, taxes, licenses and fees increased $67,435, primarily due to the associated increase in net earned premiums. General expenses increased $48,455 primarily due to increases in employment related expenses consistent with business growth. Assurant Health Overview The table below presents information regarding Assurant Healths segment results of operations: For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Revenues: Net earned premiums and other considerations $ 1,879,628 $ 1,951,955 $ 2,050,280 Net investment income 47,658 57,464 66,634 Fees and other income 39,879 38,917 40,583 Total revenues 1,967,165 2,048,336 2,157,497 Benefits, losses and expenses: Policyholder benefits 1,410,171 1,258,188 1,295,441 Selling, underwriting and general expenses 604,698 604,605 627,348 Total benefits, losses and expenses 2,014,869 1,862,793 1,922,789 Segment (loss) income before provision for income tax (47,704 ) 185,543 234,708 (Benefit) provision for income taxes (17,484 ) 65,289 82,965 Segment net (loss) income $ (30,220 ) $ 120,254 $ 151,743 Net earned premiums and other considerations: Individual Markets: Individual medical $ 1,270,198 $ 1,276,743 $ 1,283,321 Short term medical 104,238 101,435 96,837 Subtotal 1,374,436 1,378,178 1,380,158 Small employer group: 505,192 573,777 670,122 Total $ 1,879,628 $ 1,951,955 $ 2,050,280 Membership by product line: Individual Markets: Individual medical 568 578 619 Short term medical 78 92 87 Subtotal 646 670 706 Small employer group: 121 131 165 Total 767 801 871 Ratios: Loss ratio (1) 75.0 % 64.5 % 63.2 % Expense ratio (2) 31.5 % 30.4 % 30.0 % Combined ratio (3) 105.0 % 93.6 % 92.0 % 67 Table of Contents (1) The loss ratio is equal to policyholder benefits divided by net earned premiums and other considerations. (2) The expense ratio is equal to selling, underwriting and general expenses divided by net earned premiums and other considerations and fees and other income. (3) The combined ratio is equal to total benefits, losses and expenses divided by net earned premiums and other considerations and fees and other income. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2008 Net (Loss)Income Segment results decreased $150,474, or 125%, to a net loss of $(30,220) for Twelve Months 2009 from net income of $120,254 for Twelve Months 2008. The decrease is primarily attributable to deteriorating claims experience caused by higher medical benefits utilization in all products, $32,370 (after tax) of charges relating to reserve increases for outcomes in two unfavorable claim related lawsuits, H1N1 related medical services, unfavorable claim reserve development, the continuing decline in small employer group net earned premiums and increased expenses including $2,925 (after tax) of restructuring costs. Total Revenues Total revenues decreased $81,171, or 4%, to $1,967,165 for Twelve Months 2009 from $2,048,336 for Twelve Months 2008. Net earned premiums and other considerations from our individual medical business decreased $6,545, or less than 1%, while net earned premiums and other considerations from our small employer group business decreased $68,585, or 12%, both due to a continued high level of policy lapses which were partially offset by premium rate increases. The decline in small employer group business is also due to increased competition and our adherence to strict underwriting guidelines. Also, net investment income decreased $9,806 due to lower yields and lower average invested assets. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses increased $152,076, or 8%, to $2,014,869 for Twelve Months 2009 from $1,862,793 for Twelve Months 2008. Policyholder benefits increased $151,983, or 12%, and the loss ratio increased to 75.0% from 64.5%. The increase in the benefit loss ratio was primarily due to deteriorating claims experience and unfavorable claim reserve development on both individual medical business and small employer group business due to increased utilization and intensity of medical services, coupled with a non proportionate decline in net earned premiums and $49,800 of reserve increases stemming from two separate claim related lawsuits. In addition, policyholder benefits include $3,900 for H1N1 related medical services. We estimate that the cost of administering H1N1 vaccines and related medical services will increase our claim expenses $4,000 to $5,000 in the first six months of 2010. Selling, underwriting and general expenses increased $93, or less than 1%. Higher expenses including $4,500 of restructuring costs, increased advertising expense of $8,155, and increased loss adjustment expense were partially offset by lower amortization of deferred acquisition costs. In 2010, healthcare reform legislation currently pending in the U.S. Congress could increase our costs and or decrease our revenues. See Item 1A Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Industry Changes in regulation may reduce our profitability and limit our growth for more information. In light of the factors noted above, we do not expect the Assurant Health segment to return to profitability until late 2010. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2007 Net Income Segment net income decreased $31,489, or 21%, to $120,254 for Twelve Months 2008 from $151,743 for Twelve Months 2007. The decrease is primarily attributable to less favorable results in the individual medical business and the continuing decline in small employer group net earned premiums. 68 Table of Contents Total Revenues Total revenues decreased $109,161, or 5%, to $2,048,336 for Twelve Months 2008 from $2,157,497 for Twelve Months 2007. Net earned premiums and other considerations from our individual medical business decreased $6,578, or less than 1%, due to reduced membership, partially offset by premium rate increases. Net earned premiums and other considerations from our small employer group business decreased $96,345, or 14%, due to a decline in members, partially offset by premium rate increases. The decline in small employer group members is due to increased competition and our adherence to strict underwriting guidelines. Also, net investment income decreased $9,170 due to lower investment income from real estate joint venture partnerships and lower average invested assets. The decrease in real estate joint venture partnership income is due to greater sales of underlying properties in Twelve Months 2007 compared with Twelve Months 2008 given the more favorable real estate market conditions in 2007. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses decreased $59,996, or 3%, to $1,862,793 for Twelve Months 2008 from $1,922,789 for Twelve Months 2007. Policyholder benefits decreased $37,253, or 3%, primarily due to the decrease in small employer group business in Twelve Months 2008 compared to Twelve Months 2007. Although policyholder benefits decreased, the loss ratio increased to 64.5% from 63.2%. The increase in the benefit loss ratio was primarily due to higher claims experience on individual medical business coupled with a non proportionate decline in net earned premiums. Our small employer group business had more favorable loss experience in Twelve Months 2008 compared to Twelve Months 2007. Selling, underwriting and general expenses decreased $22,743, or 4%, primarily due to lower commission expenses for both individual medical and small employer group business associated with the decline in net earned premium. 69 Table of Contents Assurant Employee Benefits Overview The table below presents information regarding Assurant Employee Benefits segment results of operations: For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Revenues: Net earned premiums and other considerations $ 1,052,137 $ 1,111,748 $ 1,144,739 Net investment income 133,365 147,027 166,955 Fees and other income 28,343 26,139 23,997 Total revenues 1,213,845 1,284,914 1,335,691 Benefits, losses and expenses: Policyholder benefits 757,070 775,684 790,570 Selling, underwriting and general expenses 392,901 400,816 411,868 Total benefits, losses and expenses 1,149,971 1,176,500 1,202,438 Segment income before provision for income tax 63,874 108,414 133,253 Provision for income taxes 21,718 37,857 46,232 Segment net income $ 42,156 $ 70,557 $ 87,021 Ratios: Loss ratio (1) 72.0 % 69.8 % 69.1 % Expense ratio (2) 36.4 % 35.2 % 35.2 % Net earned premiums and other considerations: By major product groupings: Group dental $ 425,288 $ 435,115 $ 412,810 Group disability single premiums for closed blocks (3) 11,447 49,456 All other group disability 434,381 459,208 467,490 Group life 192,468 205,978 214,983 Total $ 1,052,137 $ 1,111,748 $ 1,144,739 (1) The loss ratio is equal to policyholder benefits divided by net earned premiums and other considerations. (2) The expense ratio is equal to selling, underwriting and general expenses divided by net earned premiums and other considerations and fees and other income. (3) This represents single premium on closed blocks of group disability business. For closed blocks of business we receive a single, upfront premium and in turn we record a virtually equal amount of claim reserves. We then manage the claims using our claim management practices. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2008 Net Income Segment net income decreased $28,401 or 40%, to $42,156 for Twelve Months 2009 from $70,557 for Twelve Months 2008. The decrease in net income was primarily driven by lower net earned premiums and less favorable life, dental and disability loss experience. In addition, net investment income was lower by $8,880 (after tax) due to decreased average invested assets and lower investment yields. In addition, net income includes a reserve release related to annual reserve adequacy studies of $2,102 (after tax) in Twelve Months 2009 compared with $3,485 (after tax) in Twelve Months 2008. 70 Table of Contents Total Revenues Total revenues decreased 5% to $1,213,845 for Twelve Months 2009 from $1,284,914 for Twelve Months 2008. Twelve Months 2008 net earned premiums includes $11,447 of single premiums on closed blocks of business. Excluding single premiums on closed blocks of business, net earned premiums decreased 4%, or $48,164, driven by decreases in all products. The overall decrease is due to increased lapses and fewer covered lives due to higher unemployment, along with a difficult sales environment which presents a challenge to revenue growth. Although we added two new clients in the fourth quarter of 2009, assumed premiums from our Disability RMS distribution channel decreased $7,626 or 5% for Twelve Months 2009 compared to the prior year, excluding single premiums from closed blocks of business. An additional $4,594 of assumed premiums in the fourth quarter of 2009 is attributable to the acquisition of a block of business from Shenandoah Life Insurance Company. Net investment income decreased 9% or $13,662 due to a decrease in average invested assets and lower investment yields. In addition, Twelve Months 2008 included $1,294 in real estate joint venture partnership income while Twelve Months 2009 includes a loss of $237 from real estate joint venture partnerships. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses decreased 2% to $1,149,971 for Twelve Months 2009 from $1,176,500 for Twelve Months 2008. The loss ratio increased to 72.0% from 69.8%, primarily driven by less favorable experience across all products with the exception of assumed disability business through our Disability RMS distribution channel. Overall, disability recovery rates were less favorable for Twelve Months 2009 compared with the prior year, although incidence has remained steady. Group life and dental experience were less favorable when compared with the prior year. Dental experience has been impacted by higher utilization in the current year. Our annual reserve adequacy studies led to a release of $3,234, for Twelve Months 2009 resulting in a reduction to benefits and expenses compared with $5,362 in Twelve Months 2008. Excluding the single premiums on closed blocks of business in the prior year, the expense ratio increased to 36.4% from 35.2% driven by lower net earned premiums as well as additional costs incurred with new client additions and $2,445 of restructuring costs in Twelve Months 2009. We have continued to manage expenses and have experienced a 2% or $7,915 decrease for Twelve Months 2009 in selling, underwriting and general expenses compared with Twelve Months 2008. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2007 Net Income Segment net income decreased 19% to $70,557 for Twelve Months 2008 from $87,021 for Twelve Months 2007. The decrease in net income was primarily driven by a decrease in net investment income from real estate joint venture partnerships of $9,192 (after tax) and less favorable dental experience. The decrease in real estate joint venture partnership income is due to greater sales of underlying properties in Twelve Months 2007 compared with Twelve Months 2008 given the more favorable real estate market conditions during 2007. Twelve Months 2008 also included a reserve release of $3,485 (after tax) due to favorable reserve adequacy studies. Total Revenues Total revenues decreased 4% to $1,284,914 for Twelve Months 2008 from $1,335,691 for Twelve Months 2007. Excluding single premiums on closed blocks of business, net earned premiums and other considerations increased $5,018 as we have begun to see overall growth in net earned premiums, specifically in our small case business. Net investment income decreased $19,928 primarily because Twelve Months 2007 included $15,436 in real estate joint venture partnership investment income while Twelve Months 2008 included $1,294. Also contributing to the decrease in net investment income during Twelve Months 2008 were lower average invested assets and slightly lower yields. 71 Table of Contents Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses decreased 2% to $1,176,500 for Twelve Months 2008 from $1,202,438 for Twelve Months 2007. The decrease was driven by favorable disability experience during 2008 due to continued good incidence, and recoveries. Dental experience is less favorable when compared to 2007, while life experience in 2008 was consistent with 2007. We completed our annual reserve studies in the fourth quarter of 2008 which led to a release of $5,362, resulting in a reduction to benefits. The expense ratio remained consistent at 35.2%. Excluding the single premiums on closed blocks of business, the expense ratio decreased to 35.6% from 36.8% due to a decrease in credited interest rates paid on deposit funds along with a focus on expense management. Corporate and Other The table below presents information regarding the Corporate and Other segments results of operations: For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Revenues: Net investment income $ 16,249 $ 26,198 $ 37,943 Net realized losses on investments (53,597 ) (428,679 ) (62,220 ) Amortization of deferred gains on disposal of businesses 22,461 29,412 33,139 Fees and other income 140,802 3,236 746 Total revenues 125,915 (369,833 ) 9,608 Benefits, losses and expenses: Policyholder benefits 7,408 1,114 3,969 Selling, underwriting and general expenses 93,769 92,689 96,703 Interest expense 60,669 60,953 61,178 Total benefits, losses and expenses 161,846 154,756 161,850 Segment loss before benefit for income taxes (35,931 ) (524,589 ) (152,242 ) Benefit for income taxes (11,520 ) (264,188 ) (44,063 ) Segment net loss $ (24,411 ) $ (260,401 ) $ (108,179 ) Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2008 Net Loss Segment net loss improved $235,990, to $(24,411) for Twelve Months 2009 compared with $(260,401) for Twelve Months 2008. Segment results improved mainly due to a decline in net realized losses on investments of $243,803 (after tax) and a favorable legal settlement with Willis Limited. The after tax settlement, net of attorney fees and allowances for related recoverables, was $83,542. Segment results also include a $3,500 (after tax) penalty to settle the previously disclosed SEC investigation regarding a finite reinsurance arrangement. Expenses related to the SEC investigation, which include reimbursements of certain SEC investigation related expenses through our director and officer insurance coverage, were $4,076 (after tax) lower in Twelve Months 2009 compared with Twelve Months 2008. These improvements were partially offset by a tax benefit of $88,994 related to the sale of an inactive subsidiary included in Twelve Months 2008, $9,914 of tax expense from the change in deferred tax asset valuation allowance, previously disclosed executive compensation expense (severance and special retirement bonus) of $4,550 (after tax) and a decline in net investment income of $6,467 (after tax). Total Revenues Total revenues increased $495,748, to $125,915 for Twelve Months 2009 compared with $(369,833) for Twelve Months 2008. The increase in revenues is mainly due to an improvement of $375,082 in net realized 72 Table of Contents losses on investments and a favorable legal settlement of $139,000 with Willis Limited, mentioned above. Included in net realized losses on investments were other than temporary impairments (OTTI) of $38,660 and $340,153 for Twelve Months 2009 and Twelve Months 2008, respectively. These increases were partially offset by a decline of $9,949 in net investment income as a result of lower short term interest rates and lower average invested assets and $6,951 in lower amortization of deferred gains on disposal of businesses. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total expenses increased $7,090, to $161,846 in Twelve Months 2009 compared with $154,756 in Twelve Months 2008. The increase in expenses is mainly due to additional executive compensation expense of $7,000. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2007 Net Loss Segment net loss increased $152,222, or 141%, to $(260,401) for Twelve Months 2008 compared with $(108,179) for Twelve Months 2007. Segment net loss increased mainly due to additional realized losses on investments of $238,198 (after tax) and a decline of $7,634 (after tax) in net investment income. These declines in Twelve Months 2008 were partially offset by a $86,928 gain (after tax) and related tax benefit associated with the sale of UFLIC during 2008, and $3,859 (after tax) of income from the reimbursement of certain SEC investigation expenses from our director and executive officer (D&O) insurance coverage. In addition, Twelve Months 2007 included a $1,856 (after tax) reserve strengthening charge for asbestos and environmental liabilities related to certain previously discontinued products. Total Revenues Total revenues decreased $379,441, to $(369,833) for Twelve Months 2008 compared with $9,608 for Twelve Months 2007. The decline in revenues was mainly due to an additional $366,459 of net realized losses on investments in Twelve Months 2008 compared with Twelve Months 2007. Also, net investment income declined $11,745 as a result of lower short term interest rates and lower average invested assets. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total expenses decreased $7,094 or 4%, to $154,756 for Twelve Months 2008 compared with $161,850 for Twelve Months 2007. The decrease in expenses was mainly due to reimbursements of $5,938 through our D&O insurance coverage for certain SEC investigation related expenses in Twelve Months 2008. Twelve Months 2007 included a $2,580 reserve strengthening charge for asbestos and environmental liabilities related to certain previously discontinued products. Goodwill impairment In accordance with ASC Topic 350, Intangibles Goodwill and Other (ASC Topic 350), goodwill is deemed to have an indefinite life and should not be amortized, but rather must be tested, at least annually, for impairment. In addition, goodwill should be tested for impairment between annual tests if an event occurs or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of the reporting unit below its carrying value. The goodwill impairment test has two steps. Step 1 of the test identifies potential impairments at the reporting unit level, which for the Company is the same as our operating segments, by comparing the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its net book value. If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its net book value, there is no impairment of goodwill and Step 2 is unnecessary. However, if the net book value exceeds the estimated fair value, then Step 1 is failed, and Step 2 is performed to determine the amount of the potential impairment. See Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Factors Affecting Results Critical Accounting Estimates Valuation and Recoverability of Goodwill for more information. 73 Table of Contents All reporting units, except Assurant Employee Benefits, passed the Step 1 test. Based upon the assessment described above; Assurant concludes that no goodwill impairment exists for the Assurant Solutions, Assurant Specialty Property and Assurant Health reporting units. Since Assurant Employee Benefits failed the Step 1 test, we are required to perform a Step 2 test to determine the amount of the potential impairment. Step 2 utilizes acquisition accounting guidance and requires the fair value calculation of all individual assets and liabilities of the reporting unit (excluding goodwill, but including any unrecognized intangible assets). The net fair value of assets less liabilities is then compared to the reporting units total estimated fair value as calculated in Step 1. The excess of fair value over the net asset value equals the implied fair value of goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is then compared to the carrying value of goodwill to determine the reporting units goodwill impairment. Based on our Step 2 test it was determined that 45% of the goodwill of the Assurant Employee Benefits reporting unit was impaired, resulting in a non cash charge of $83,000. This impairment reflects the challenging near term growth environment for the Assurant Employee Benefits reporting unit and an increased net book value of the reporting unit, primarily related to its investment portfolio, which has increased in value by $137,600 (after tax) from prior year. Management remains confident in the long term prospects of the Assurant Employee Benefits reporting unit. Investments The following tables show the cost or amortized cost, gross unrealized gains and losses and fair value and OTTI of our fixed maturity and equity securities as of the dates indicated: December 31, 2009 Cost orAmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses Fair Value OTTIin AOCI (1) Fixed maturity securities: United States Government and government agencies and authorities $ 115,268 $ 5,135 $ (73 ) $ 120,330 $ States, municipalities and political subdivisions 873,548 42,499 (5,979 ) 910,068 Foreign governments 558,254 19,352 (4,779 ) 572,827 Asset backed 51,834 2,599 (470 ) 53,963 833 Commercial mortgage backed 159,780 1,589 (1,462 ) 159,907 Residential mortgage backed 685,373 29,224 (2,594 ) 712,003 123 Corporate 7,240,026 325,646 (127,998 ) 7,437,674 8,697 Total fixed maturity securities $ 9,684,083 $ 426,044 $ (143,355 ) $ 9,966,772 $ 9,653 Equity securities: Common stocks $ 5,493 $ 285 $ (1,249 ) $ 4,529 $ Non redeemable preferred stocks 508,856 31,657 (32,055 ) 508,458 Total equity securities $ 514,349 $ 31,942 $ (33,304 ) $ 512,987 $ (1) Represents the amount of other than temporary impairment gains in AOCI, which, from April 1, 2009, were not included in earnings under the new OTTI guidance for debt securities. 74 Table of Contents December 31, 2008 Cost orAmortizedCost GrossUnrealizedGains GrossUnrealizedLosses Fair Value Fixed maturity securities: United States Government and government agencies and authorities $ 136,725 $ 13,784 $ (22 ) $ 150,487 States, municipalities and political subdivisions 874,134 14,122 (14,676 ) 873,580 Foreign governments 503,620 19,391 (9,693 ) 513,318 Asset backed 62,184 157 (2,435 ) 59,906 Commercial mortgage backed 241,458 60 (43,415 ) 198,103 Residential mortgage backed 677,633 29,670 (1,027 ) 706,276 Corporate 6,722,890 107,270 (700,143 ) 6,130,017 Total fixed maturity securities $ 9,218,644 $ 184,454 $ (771,411 ) $ 8,631,687 Equity securities: Common stocks $ 5,384 $ 283 $ (1,618 ) $ 4,049 Non redeemable preferred stocks 557,556 7,120 (134,273 ) 430,403 Total equity securities $ 562,940 $ 7,403 $ (135,891 ) $ 434,452 The industry categories that comprise our Corporate fixed maturity securities captions above as of the dates indicated are: December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Fair Value NetUnrealizedGain (Loss) Fair Value NetUnrealized(Loss) Gain Industry Category: Consumer cyclical $ 1,014,735 $ 38,770 $ 915,887 $ (119,341 ) Consumer non cyclical 322,638 15,797 302,847 (12,697 ) Energy 790,437 39,340 604,332 (65,668 ) Financials 2,076,599 (12,699 ) 1,672,525 (196,670 ) Health care 431,155 14,574 290,410 (15,606 ) Industrials 952,792 24,638 851,921 (97,925 ) Materials 292,502 5,164 220,934 (41,477 ) Technology 156,272 5,730 120,626 (5,784 ) Telecommunications 502,267 28,242 376,896 (11,976 ) Utilities 894,794 38,149 767,630 (25,558 ) Other corporate 357 8 374 11 Collaterized debt obligations 3,126 (65 ) 5,635 (182 ) Total corporate securities $ 7,437,674 $ 197,648 $ 6,130,017 $ (592,873 ) The following table shows the credit quality of our fixed maturity securities portfolio as of the dates indicated: As of Fixed Maturity Securities by Credit Quality (Fair Value) December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Aaa / Aa / A $ 6,152,842 61.8 % $ 5,712,630 66.1 % Baa 2,953,964 29.6 % 2,398,830 27.8 % Ba 647,321 6.5 % 403,636 4.7 % B and lower 212,645 2.1 % 116,591 1.4 % Total $ 9,966,772 100.0 % $ 8,631,687 100.0 % 75 Table of Contents Net unrealized gains on fixed maturity securities were $282,689 as of December 31, 2009, compared to net unrealized losses of $(586,957) as of December 31, 2008. The change of $869,646 was primarily due to a decrease in credit spreads across many sectors, partially offset by an increase in treasury yields. Net unrealized losses on equity securities improved by $127,126 in 2009. The increase was primarily due to an improvement in the overall performance of the preferred stock market. Major categories of net investment income were as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Fixed maturity securities $ 558,639 $ 584,712 $ 564,369 Equity securities 38,189 45,775 47,264 Commercial mortgage loans on real estate 92,116 95,013 91,702 Policy loans 3,329 3,717 3,967 Short term investments 7,933 16,256 17,327 Other investments 17,453 27,395 59,998 Cash and cash equivalents 8,359 26,990 40,026 Total investment income 726,018 799,858 824,653 Investment expenses (27,180 ) (25,511 ) (25,580 ) Net investment income $ 698,838 $ 774,347 $ 799,073 Net investment income decreased $75,509, or 10%, to $698,838 at December 31, 2009 from $774,347 at December 31, 2008. The decrease is due to lower overall investment yields. Net investment income decreased $24,726, or 3%, to $774,347 in 2008 from $799,073 in 2007. The decrease is due to lower distributions from real estate joint venture partnerships and lower yields. The decrease in investment income from real estate joint venture partnerships is due to greater sales of underlying properties in 2007 compared with 2008 given the more favorable real estate market conditions in 2007. Additionally, the yield on average invested assets and cash and cash equivalents, which excludes investment income from real estate partnerships, was 5.50% in 2008 compared to 5.69% in 2007. After a period of declining market values in the fixed maturity and equity security markets, the credit markets have shown continued improvement throughout 2009. This is primarily due to specific U.S. government intervention which resulted in a lower threat of systemic collapse, enhanced liquidity in the market, and improved economic prospects. As a result, many securities in the portfolio have shown improved market values throughout the year. 76 Table of Contents We recorded net realized losses, including other than temporary impairments, in the statement of operations as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Net realized (losses) gains related to sales: Fixed maturity securities $ 17,651 $ (23,775 ) $ (13,884 ) Equity securities (20,931 ) (46,771 ) (10,767 ) Commercial mortgage loans on real estate (10,219 ) 326 (532 ) Other investments (1,438 ) (4,819 ) 11,147 Collateral held under securities lending (13,487 ) Total net realized losses related to sales (14,937 ) (88,526 ) (14,036 ) Net realized losses related to other than temporary impairments: Fixed maturity securities (23,238 ) (191,873 ) (31,703 ) Equity securities (14,555 ) (142,756 ) (16,481 ) Other investments (867 ) (5,524 ) Total net realized losses related to other than temporary impairments (38,660 ) (340,153 ) (48,184 ) Total net realized losses $ (53,597 ) $ (428,679 ) $ (62,220 ) The following table sets forth the amount of credit loss impairments recognized within the results of operations on fixed maturity securities held by the Company as of the dates indicated, for which a portion of the OTTI loss was recognized in AOCI, and the corresponding changes in such amounts. Balance, April 1, 2009 $ 119,022 Additions for credit loss impairments recognized in the current period on securities not previously impaired 1,464 Additions for credit loss impairments recognized in the current period on securities previously impaired 6,900 Reductions for increases in cash flows expected to be collected that are recognized over the remaining life of the security (433 ) Reductions for credit loss impairments previously recognized on securities which matured, paid down, prepaid or were sold during the period (18,900 ) Balance, December 31, 2009 $ 108,053 We regularly monitor our investment portfolio to ensure investments that may be other than temporarily impaired are identified in a timely fashion, properly valued, and charged against earnings in the proper period. The determination that a security has incurred an other than temporary decline in value requires the judgment of management. Assessment factors include, but are not limited to, the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than cost, the financial condition and rating of the issuer, whether any collateral is held, the intent and ability of the Company to retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for recovery for equity securities and the intent to sell or whether it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell for fixed maturity securities. Inherently, there are risks and uncertainties involved in making these judgments. Changes in circumstances and critical assumptions such as a continued weak economy, a more pronounced economic downturn or unforeseen events which affect one or more companies, industry sectors, or countries could result in additional impairments in future periods for other than temporary declines in value. Any equity security whose price decline is deemed other than temporary is written down to its then current market value with the amount of the impairment reported as a realized loss in that period. The impairment of a fixed maturity security that the Company has the intent to sell or that it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell is deemed other than temporary and is written down to its market value at the balance sheet date with the amount of the impairment reported as a realized loss in that period. For all other than temporarily 77 Table of Contents impaired fixed maturity securities that do not meet either of these two criteria, the Company is required to analyze its ability to recover the amortized cost of the security by calculating the net present value of projected future cash flows. For these other than temporarily impaired fixed maturity securities, the net amount recognized in earnings is equal to the difference between the amortized cost of the fixed maturity security and its net present value. The Company considers different factors to determine the amount of projected future cash flows and discounting methods for corporate debt and residential and commercial mortgage backed or asset backed securities. For corporate debt securities, the split between the credit and non credit losses is driven principally by assumptions regarding the amount and timing of projected future cash flows. The net present value is calculated by discounting the Companys best estimate of projected future cash flows at the effective interest rate implicit in the security at the date of acquisition. For residential and commercial mortgage backed and asset backed securities, cash flow estimates include prepayment assumptions, which are based on data from widely accepted third party data sources or internal estimates. In addition to prepayment assumptions, cash flow estimates vary based on assumptions regarding the underlying collateral including default rates, recoveries and changes in value. The net present value is calculated by discounting the Companys best estimate of projected future cash flows at the effective interest rate implicit in the fixed maturity security prior to impairment at the balance sheet date. The discounted cash flows become the new amortized cost basis of the fixed maturity security. In periods subsequent to the recognition of an other than temporary impairment, we generally accrete into net investment income the discount (or amortize the reduced premium), up to the non discounted amount of projected future cash flows, resulting from the reduction in cost basis, based upon the amount and timing of the expected future cash flows over the remaining life of the security. Realized gains and losses on sales of investments are recognized on the specific identification basis. As of December 31, 2009, the Company owned $239,054 of securities guaranteed by financial guarantee insurance companies. Included in this amount was $200,167 of municipal securities, whose credit rating was AA both with and without the guarantee. Due to credit rating downgrades of the financial guarantee insurance companies their financial guarantee is providing minimal or no value in the current market environment. The Company has exposure to sub prime and related mortgages within our fixed maturity security portfolio. At December 31, 2009, approximately 2.4% of the residential mortgage backed holdings had exposure to sub prime mortgage collateral. This represented approximately 0.2% of the total fixed income portfolio and 0.3% of the total unrealized loss position. Of the securities with sub prime exposure, approximately 32% are rated as investment grade. All residential mortgage backed securities, including those with sub prime exposure, are reviewed as part of the ongoing other than temporary impairment monitoring process. As required by the fair value measurements and disclosures guidance, which is within ASC Topic 820, the Company has identified and disclosed its financial assets in a fair value hierarchy, which consists of the following three levels: Level 1 inputs utilize quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Company has the ability to access. Financial assets and liabilities utilizing Level 1 inputs include certain U.S. mutual funds, money market funds, common stock and certain foreign securities. Level 2 inputs utilize other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset. Level 2 inputs include quoted prices for similar assets in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are not active and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable in the marketplace for the asset. The observable inputs are used in valuation models to calculate the fair value for the asset. Financial assets utilizing Level 2 inputs include corporate, municipal, foreign government and private placement bonds, U.S. Government and agency securities, residential and commercial mortgage backed securities, asset backed securities, non redeemable preferred stocks and certain U.S. and foreign mutual funds. 78 Table of Contents Level 3 inputs are unobservable but are significant to the fair value measurement for the asset, and include situations where there is little, if any, market activity for the asset. These inputs reflect managements own assumptions about the assumptions a market participant would use in pricing the asset. Financial assets utilizing Level 3 inputs include certain non redeemable preferred stocks, foreign government and corporate bonds, and commercial mortgage backed and asset backed securities that were quoted by brokers and could not be corroborated by Level 2 inputs and derivatives. A review of fair value hierarchy classifications is conducted on a quarterly basis. Changes in the observability of valuation inputs may result in a reclassification of levels for certain securities within the fair value hierarchy. Level 1 and Level 2 securities are valued using various observable market inputs obtained from a pricing service. The pricing service prepares estimates of fair value measurements for our Level 2 securities using proprietary valuation models based on techniques such as matrix pricing which include observable market inputs. The fair value measurements and disclosures guidance, defines observable market inputs as the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability developed on market data obtained from sources independent of the Company. The extent of the use of each observable market input for a security depends on the type of security and the market conditions at the balance sheet date. Depending on the security, the priority of the use of observable market inputs may change as some observable market inputs may not be relevant or additional inputs may be necessary. The following observable market inputs, listed in the approximate order of priority, are utilized in the pricing evaluation of Level 2 securities: benchmark yields, reported trades, broker/dealer quotes, issuer spreads, two sided markets, benchmark securities, bids, offers and reference data. The pricing service also evaluates each security based on relevant market information including: relevant credit information, perceived market movements and sector news. Valuation models can change period to period, depending on the appropriate observable inputs that are available at the balance sheet date to price a security. When market observable inputs are unavailable, the remaining un priced securities are submitted to independent brokers who provide non binding broker quotes or are priced by other qualified sources and are categorized as Level 3 securities. Management evaluates the following factors in order to determine whether the market for a financial asset is inactive. The factors include, but are not limited to: There are few recent transactions, Little information is released publicly, The available prices vary significantly over time or among market participants, The prices are stale (i.e., not current), and The magnitude of the bid ask spread Illiquidity did not have a material impact in the fair value determination of the Companys financial assets. The Company generally obtains one price for each financial asset. The Company performs a monthly analysis to assess if the evaluated prices represent a reasonable estimate of their fair value. This process involves quantitative and qualitative analysis and is overseen by investment and accounting professionals. Examples of procedures performed include, but are not limited to, initial and on going review of pricing service methodologies, review of the prices received from the pricing service, review of pricing statistics and trends, and comparison of prices for certain securities with two different appropriate price sources for reasonableness. Following this analysis, the Company generally uses the best estimate of fair value based upon all available inputs. On infrequent occasions, a non pricing service source may be more familiar with the market activity for a particular security than the pricing service. In these cases the price used is taken from the non pricing service source. The pricing service provides information to indicate which securities were priced using market observable inputs so that the Company can properly categorize our financial assets in the fair value hierarchy. 79 Table of Contents Securities Lending The Company engages in transactions in which fixed maturity securities, especially bonds issued by the U.S. government, government agencies and authorities, and U.S. corporations, are loaned to selected broker/dealers. Collateral, greater than or equal to 102% of the fair value of the securities lent plus accrued interest, is received in the form of cash and cash equivalents held by a custodian bank for the benefit of the Company. The use of cash collateral received is unrestricted. The Company reinvests the cash collateral received, generally in investments of high credit quality that are designated as available for sale under the debt and equity securities guidance, which is within ASC Topic 320. The Company monitors the fair value of securities loaned and the collateral received, with additional collateral obtained as necessary. The Company is subject to the risk of loss to the extent there is a loss on the re investment of cash collateral. As of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, our collateral held under securities lending, the use of which is unrestricted, was $218,129 and $234,027, respectively, while our liability to the borrower for collateral received was $220,279 and $256,506, respectively. The difference between the collateral held and obligations under securities lending is recorded as an unrealized loss and is included as part of AOCI. All securities with unrealized losses have been in a continuous loss position for twelve months or longer as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. The Company continues to reduce the size of the securities lending program to mitigate counter party exposure. The Company includes the available for sale investments purchased with the cash collateral in its evaluation of other than temporary impairments. Cash proceeds that the Company receives as collateral for the securities it lends and subsequent repayment of the cash are regarded by the Company as cash flows from financing activities, since the cash received is considered a borrowing. Since the Company reinvests the cash collateral generally in investments that are designated as available for sale, the reinvestment is presented as cash flows from investing activities. Loss Protection and Capital Management As part of our overall risk and capital management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various business segments, including significant individual or catastrophic claims, to free up capital to enable us to write additional business. Under indemnity reinsurance transactions in which we are the ceding insurer, we remain liable for policy claims if the assuming company fails to meet its obligations. To limit this risk, we have control procedures to evaluate the financial condition of reinsurers and to monitor the concentration of credit risk to minimize this exposure. The selection of reinsurance companies is based on criteria related to solvency and reliability and, to a lesser degree, diversification, as well as developing strong relationships with our reinsurers for the sharing of risks. For those product lines where there is exposure to catastrophes, we closely monitor and manage the aggregate risk exposure by geographic area. We have entered into reinsurance treaties to manage exposure to these types of events. During 2009, subsidiaries of the Company entered into two reinsurance agreements (the Reinsurance Agreements) with Ibis Re Ltd., a reinsurance company domiciled in the Cayman Islands (Ibis Re), in connection with a fully collateralized catastrophe reinsurance bond program in the aggregate amount of $150,000 (the Cat Bonds). In connection with the issuance of the Cat Bonds, Ibis Re set up two insurance trusts to hold certain investments to secure payments to the subsidiaries under the Reinsurance Agreements and the repayment of principal to the bondholders, as applicable, and entered into two related swap agreements (each a Swap) with Goldman Sachs International (the Swap Counterparty). The Swaps may be terminated as a result of certain events, including but not limited to a payment default by the Swap Counterparty, the insolvency of the Swap Counterparty, certain changes in law with regard to the Swap 80 Table of Contents Counterparty, or certain merger transactions involving the Swap Counterparty (each a Swap Counterparty Event). In the event of such termination, the Company may elect either to replace the Swap Counterparty and enter into an interim swap agreement (the Interim Swap Agreement), acting as an interim swap counterparty opposite Ibis Re, or to appoint another swap counterparty to replace the Swap Counterparty. Following a termination of a Swap as the result of a Swap Counterparty Event, if either the Company or a designated affiliate does not upon two business days notice indicate its intention to enter into the Interim Swap Agreement with Ibis Re or appoint another swap counterparty to replace the Swap Counterparty, then the related class of Cat Bond will be subject to early redemption on the next following quarterly payment date for such Cat Bond. Business Dispositions To exit certain businesses, we have used reinsurance to facilitate transactions because the businesses share legal entities with business segments we retain. Assets supporting liabilities ceded relating to these businesses are held in trusts and the separate accounts relating to divested business are still reflected in our consolidated balance sheets. Please see Item 1A Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Company We have sold businesses through reinsurance that could again become a direct financial and administrative responsibility if the purchasing companies were to become insolvent for a discussion of related risks. Segments Client Risk and Profit Sharing The Assurant Solutions and Assurant Specialty Property segments write business produced by clients, such as mortgage lenders and servicers and financial institutions, and reinsures all or a portion of such business to insurance subsidiaries of the clients. Such arrangements allow significant flexibility in structuring the sharing of risks and profits on the underlying business. A substantial portion of Assurant Solutions and Assurant Specialty Property reinsurance activities are related to agreements to reinsure premiums and risk related to business generated by certain clients to the clients captive insurance companies or to reinsurance subsidiaries in which the clients have an ownership interest. Through these arrangements, our insurance subsidiaries share some of the premiums and risk related to client generated business with these clients. When the reinsurance companies are not authorized to do business in our insurance subsidiarys domiciliary state, our insurance subsidiary generally obtains collateral, such as a trust or a letter of credit, from the reinsurance company or its affiliate in an amount equal to the outstanding reserves to obtain full statutory financial credit in the domiciliary state for the reinsurance. Our reinsurance agreements do not relieve us from our direct obligation to our insured. Thus, a credit exposure exists to the extent that any reinsurer is unable to meet the obligations assumed in the reinsurance agreements. To minimize our exposure to reinsurance insolvencies, we evaluate the financial condition of our reinsurers and hold substantial collateral (in the form of funds, trusts and letters of credit) as security under the reinsurance agreements. See Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Credit Risk. Liquidity and Capital Resources Regulatory Requirements Assurant, Inc. is a holding company, and as such, has limited direct operations of its own. Our holding company assets consist primarily of the capital stock of our subsidiaries. Accordingly, our future cash flows depend upon the availability of dividends and other statutorily permissible payments from our subsidiaries, such as payments under our tax allocation agreement and under management agreements with our subsidiaries. The ability to pay such dividends and to make such other payments will be limited by applicable laws and regulations of the states in which our subsidiaries are domiciled, which subject our subsidiaries to significant regulatory restrictions. The dividend requirements and regulations vary from state to state and by type of insurance provided by the applicable subsidiary. These laws and regulations require, among other things, our insurance subsidiaries to maintain minimum solvency requirements and limit the amount of dividends these subsidiaries can pay to the holding company. Along with solvency regulations, the primary driver in determining the amount of capital used 81 Table of Contents for dividends is the level of capital needed to maintain desired financial strength ratings from A. M. Best. Given recent economic events that have affected the insurance industry, both regulators and rating agencies could become more conservative in their methodology and criteria, including increasing capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries which, in turn, could negatively affect our capital resources. For 2010, the maximum amount of distributions our subsidiaries could pay, under applicable laws and regulations without prior regulatory approval, is approximately $524,666. During 2010, we will begin a 2 year project to streamline the Assurant Solutions legal entity structure which we anticipate will free up $75,000 to $150,000 in distributions to the holding company. Liquidity Dividends and or returns of capital paid by our subsidiaries totaled $703,099, $453,303 and $436,900 for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We used these cash inflows primarily to pay expenses, to make interest payments on indebtedness, to make dividend payments to our stockholders, to make subsidiary capital contributions, to fund acquisitions and to repurchase our outstanding common shares. The primary sources of funds for our subsidiaries consist of premiums and fees collected, the proceeds from the sales and maturity of investments and investment income. Cash is primarily used to pay insurance claims, agent commissions, operating expenses and taxes. We generally invest our subsidiaries excess funds in order to generate investment income. We conduct periodic asset liability studies to measure the duration of our insurance liabilities, to develop optimal asset portfolio maturity structures for our significant lines of business and ultimately to assess that cash flows are sufficient to meet the timing of cash needs. These studies are conducted in accordance with formal company wide Asset Liability Management (ALM) guidelines. To complete a study for a particular line of business, models are developed to project asset and liability cash flows and balance sheet items under a large, varied set of plausible economic scenarios. These models consider many factors including the current investment portfolio, the required capital for the related assets and liabilities, our tax position and projected cash flows from both existing and projected new business. Alternative asset portfolio structures are analyzed for significant lines of business. An investment portfolio maturity structure is then selected from these profiles given our return hurdle and risk preference. Sensitivity testing of significant liability assumptions and new business projections is also performed. Given our ALM asset allocation processes and the nature of the products we offer, we have minimal exposure to disintermediation risk. Our liabilities have limited policyholder optionality which results in policyholder behavior that is mainly insensitive to the interest rate environment. In addition, our investment portfolio is largely comprised of highly liquid fixed maturity securities with a sufficient component of such securities invested that are near maturity which may be sold with minimal risk of loss to meet cash needs. Generally, our subsidiaries premiums, fees and investment income, along with planned asset sales and maturities, provide sufficient cash to pay claims and expenses. However, there are instances where unexpected cash needs arise in excess of that available from usual operating sources. In such instances, we have several options to raise needed funds, including selling assets from the subsidiaries investment portfolios, using holding company cash (if available), issuing commercial paper and drawing funds from our revolving credit facility. In addition, on November 6, 2008, we filed an automatically effective shelf registration statement on Form S 3 with the SEC. This registration statement enables us to issue equity, debt, or other types of securities through one or more methods of distribution. The terms of any offering would be established at the time of the offering, subject to market conditions. If we determine to make an offering of securities, we will consider the nature of the cash requirement as well as the cost of capital in determining what type of securities we may offer. 82 Table of Contents On January 25, 2010, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.15 per common share payable on March 8, 2010 to stockholders of record as of February 22, 2010. We paid dividends of $0.15 on December 14, 2009, September 15, 2009, and June 9, 2009 and $0.14 per common share on March 9, 2009. In 2008, we paid dividends of $0.14 per common share on December 10, 2008, September 9, 2008, and June 10, 2008, and $0.12 per common share on March 10, 2008. Any determination to pay future dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will be dependent upon: our subsidiaries payment of dividends and or other statutorily permissible payments to us; our results of operations and cash flows; our financial position and capital requirements; general business conditions; any legal, tax, regulatory and contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends; and any other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant. With the settlement of the SECs finite reinsurance investigation concluded we resumed our share repurchase program in 2010. On January 22, 2010, our Board of Directors authorized an additional $600,000 for the repurchase of Assurants shares. This brought the total repurchase authorization to $770,044 for use in the open market and or for private transactions. The timing and the amount of repurchases will depend on the market conditions and other factors. Management believes that we will have sufficient liquidity to satisfy our needs over the next twelve months, including the ability to pay interest on our senior notes and dividends on our common shares. Retirement and Other Employee Benefits We sponsor both a qualified and non qualified pension plan and a retirement health benefits plan covering our employees who meet specified eligibility requirements. The reported expense and liability associated with these plans requires an extensive use of assumptions which include the discount rate, expected return on plan assets and rate of future compensation increases. We determine these assumptions based upon currently available market and industry data, and historical performance of the plan and its assets, to aid us in selecting appropriate assumptions and valuing our related liabilities. The actuarial assumptions used in the calculation of our aggregate projected benefit obligation may vary and include an expectation of long term market appreciation in equity markets which is not changed by minor short term market fluctuations, but does change when large interim deviations occur. The assumptions we use may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates or longer or shorter life spans of the participants. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA) requires certain qualified plans, like the Assurant Pension Plan (the Plan), to meet specified funding thresholds beginning with the 2009 plan year. If these funding thresholds are not met, there are negative consequences to the Plan and participants. If the funded percentage falls below 80%, full payment of lump sum benefits as well as implementation of amendments improving benefits are restricted. As of January 1, 2009, the Plans funded percentage is 128% on a PPA calculated basis. Therefore, benefit and payment restrictions did not occur during 2009. The 2009 funded measure will also be used to determine restrictions, if any, that can occur during the first nine months of 2010. Due to the well funded status of the Plan in 2009, no restrictions will exist before October 2010 (the time that the January 1, 2010 actuarial valuation needs to be completed). Also, based on the estimated funded status as of January 1, 2010, we do not anticipate any restrictions on benefits for the remainder of 2010. Our qualified pension plan was under funded by $87,977 on a GAAP basis at December 31, 2009. We established a funding policy for our qualified pension plan in which service cost plus 15% of plan deficit will be contributed annually. We made $40,000 of discretionary pension plan contributions in 2009 and we expect to contribute $40,000 in 2010. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report for the components of the net periodic benefit cost. 83 Table of Contents The impact of a 25 basis point change in the discount rate on the 2010 projected benefit expense would result in a change of $1,800 for both the qualified and non qualified pension plan and $200 for the retirement health benefit plan. The impact of a 25 basis point change in the expected return on assets assumption on the 2010 projected benefit expense would result in a change of $1,300 for the qualified pension plan and $100 for the retirement health benefits plan. Commercial Paper Program In March 2004 the Board authorized a $500,000 commercial paper program, to be used for working capital and other general corporate purposes. The Companys commercial paper program requires the Company to maintain liquidity facilities either in an available amount equal to any outstanding notes from the commercial paper program or in an amount sufficient to maintain the ratings assigned to the notes issued from the commercial paper program. Our commercial paper program is rated AMB 2 by A.M. Best, P 2 by Moodys and A2 by S&P. The Companys subsidiaries do not maintain commercial paper or other borrowing facilities at their level. Prior to December 18, 2009 this program was backed up by a $500,000 senior revolving credit facility. This program is currently backed up by a $350,000 senior revolving credit facility, of which $325,114 was available at December 31, 2009, due to outstanding letters of credit. On December 18, 2009, the Company entered into a three year unsecured revolving credit agreement (2009 Credit Facility) with a syndicate of banks arranged by JP Morgan Chase Bank, Inc. and Bank of America, Inc. The 2009 Credit Facility replaces the Companys prior five year $500,000 revolving credit facility (2004 Credit Facility). The 2009 Credit Facility provides for revolving loans and the issuance of multi bank, syndicated letters of credit and or letters of credit from a sole issuing bank in an aggregate amount of $350,000 and is available until December 2012, provided the Company is in compliance with all covenants. The agreement has a sublimit for letters of credit issued under the agreement of $50,000. The proceeds of these loans may be used for the Companys commercial paper program or for general corporate purposes. The amended and restated 2004 Credit Facility, which as of December 18, 2009 has been replaced by the 2009 Credit Facility, was unsecured and was available until April 2010, so long as the Company was in compliance with all the covenants. The 2004 Credit Facility was also available for general corporate purposes, but to the extent used thereto, was unavailable to back the commercial paper program. The Company did not use the commercial paper program during the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 and there were no amounts relating to the commercial paper program outstanding at December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008. The Company did not borrow using the 2004 Credit Facility during the twelve months ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. The Company made no borrowings using the 2009 Credit Facility and no loans are outstanding at December 31, 2009. The Company does have $24,866 of letters of credit outstanding under the 2009 Credit Facility as of December 31, 2009. The 2009 Credit Facility contains restrictive covenants, all of which have been met as of December 31, 2009. These covenants include (but are not limited to): (i) Maintenance of a maximum debt to total capitalization ratio on the last day of any fiscal quarter of not greater than 0.35 to 1; and (ii) Maintenance of a consolidated adjusted net worth in an amount not less than the Minimum Amount. For the purpose of this calculation the Minimum Amount is an amount equal to the sum of (a) the base amount $3,352,474 plus (b) 50% of consolidated net income for each fiscal quarter (if positive) ending after December 31, 2009, plus (c) 50% of the net proceeds of any issuance of Capital Stock or Hybrid Securities received after September 30, 2009. At December 31, 2009, our ratio of debt to total capitalization was 0.17 to 1, the consolidated Minimum Amount described in (ii) above was $3,352,474 and our actual consolidated adjusted net worth as calculated under the covenant was $4,795,484. 84 Table of Contents In the event of the breach of certain covenants all obligations under the facility, including unpaid principal and accrued interest and outstanding letters of credit, may become immediately due and payable. Senior Notes We have two series of senior notes outstanding in an aggregate principal amount of $975,000. The first series is $500,000 in principal amount, bears interest at 5.625% per year and is due February 15, 2014. The second series is $475,000 in principal amount, bears interest at 6.750% per year and is due February 15, 2034. Our senior notes are rated bbb by A.M. Best, Baa1 by Moodys and BBB by S&P, as of December 31, 2009. Interest on our senior notes is payable semi annually on February 15 and August 15 of each year. The interest expense incurred related to the Senior Notes was $60,188 for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The senior notes are unsecured obligations and rank equally with all of our other senior unsecured indebtedness. The senior notes are not redeemable prior to maturity. In managements opinion, our subsidiaries cash flow from operations together with our income and gains from our investment portfolio will provide sufficient liquidity to meet our needs in the ordinary course of business. Cash Flows We monitor cash flows at the consolidated, holding company and subsidiary levels. Cash flow forecasts at the consolidated and subsidiary levels are provided on a monthly basis, and we use trend and variance analyses to project future cash needs making adjustments to the forecasts when needed. The table below shows our recent net cash flows: For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities (1) $ 278,963 $ 976,857 $ 1,212,454 Investing activities 141,467 (329,003 ) (1,208,585 ) Financing activities (142,562 ) (412,134 ) (186,577 ) Net change in cash $ 277,868 $ 235,720 $ (182,708 ) (1) Includes effect of exchange rates changes on cash and cash equivalents. Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008, and 2007. Operating activities: Net cash provided by operating activities was $278,963 and $976,857 for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities is primarily due to reduced gross written premium and greater claim payments made in 2009, primarily the result of deteriorating economic conditions and payments associated with hurricanes Ike and Gustav which occurred in the second half of 2008. Net cash provided by operating activities was $976,857 and $1,212,454 for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was mainly due to greater claim payments associated with hurricanes Gustav and Ike in 2008 and declines in gross written premium from our domestic insurance businesses in our Assurant Solutions segment, partially offset by cash received from the termination of a previous strategic alliance with GE. 85 Table of Contents Investing Activities: Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities was $141,467 and $(329,003) for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The change in investing activities is primarily due to fewer purchases of short term investments, commercial mortgage loans, fixed maturity securities and equity securities, partially offset by a decrease in sales of fixed maturity and equity securities. Net cash used in investing activities was $329,003 and $1,208,585 for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The decrease in investing activities was mainly due to a decrease in purchases of fixed maturity securities and changes in collateral held under securities, partially offset by the change in short term investments and the acquisitions of Signal and the GE Warranty Management Group. Financing Activities: Net cash used in financing activities was $142,562 and $412,134 for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in cash used in financing activities is primarily due to the change in obligation under securities lending, fewer repurchases of common stock and a decrease in the redemption of mandatorily redeemable preferred stock. Net cash used in financing activities was $412,134 and $186,577 for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The increase in net cash used in financing activities was mainly due to changes in obligation under securities lending, partially offset by a decrease in cash used to re purchase our common stock. During 2008, the Company purchased 1,000,000 shares from Fortis, its former parent. The table below shows our cash outflows for interest and dividends for the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Security Interest paid on mandatory redeemable preferred stock and debt $ 60,569 $ 60,859 $ 61,089 Common stock dividends 69,596 63,672 55,038 Total $ 130,165 $ 124,531 $ 116,127 Commitments and Contingencies We have obligations and commitments to third parties as a result of our operations. These obligations and commitments, as of December 31, 2009, are detailed in the table below by maturity date as of the dates indicated: As of December 31, 2009 Total Less than 1 Year 1 3Years 3 5Years More than 5Years Contractual obligations: Insurance liabilities (1) $ 16,328,240 $ 1,825,783 $ 1,557,849 $ 1,383,609 $ 11,560,999 Debt and related interest 1,857,000 60,188 120,375 592,250 1,084,187 Mandatory redeemable preferred stock 8,160 8,160 Operating leases 145,047 34,755 45,869 25,140 39,283 Pension obligations and postretirement benefit 501,501 32,091 72,414 86,429 310,567 Commitments: Investment purchases outstanding: Other investments 17,500 17,500 Liability for unrecognized tax benefit 22,321 1,495 10,464 10,362 Total obligations and commitments $ 18,879,769 $ 1,971,812 $ 1,806,971 $ 2,097,790 $ 13,003,196 86 Table of Contents (1) Insurance liabilities, reflected in the commitments and contingencies table above, include products for which we are currently making periodic payments and products for which we are not making periodic payments, but for which we believe the amount and timing of future payments is essentially fixed and determinable. Amounts included in insurance liabilities reflect estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders. Liabilities for future policy benefits and expenses of $7,349,633 and claims and benefits payable of $3,366,327 have been included in the commitments and contingencies table. Significant uncertainties relating to these liabilities include mortality, morbidity, expenses, persistency, investment returns, inflation, contract terms and the timing of payments. Letters of Credit In the normal course of business, letters of credit are issued primarily to support reinsurance arrangements. These letters of credit are supported by commitments with financial institutions. We had approximately $28,566 and $29,617 of letters of credit outstanding as of December 31, 2009 and December 31, 2008, respectively. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company does not have any off balance sheet arrangements that are reasonably likely to have a material effect on the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, or capital resources of the Company. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk As a provider of insurance products, effective risk management is fundamental to our ability to protect both our customers and stockholders interests. We are exposed to potential loss from various market risks, in particular interest rate risk and credit risk. Additionally, we are exposed to inflation risk and to a lesser extent foreign currency risk. Interest rate risk is the possibility that the fair value of liabilities will change more or less than the market value of investments in response to changes in interest rates, including changes in the slope or shape of the yield curve and changes in spreads due to credit risks and other factors. Credit risk is the possibility that counterparties may not be able to meet payment obligations when they become due. We assume counterparty credit risk in many forms. A counterparty is any person or entity from which cash or other forms of consideration are expected to extinguish a liability or obligation to us. Primarily, our credit risk exposure is concentrated in our fixed maturity investment portfolio and, to a lesser extent, in our reinsurance recoverables. Inflation risk is the possibility that a change in domestic price levels produces an adverse effect on earnings. This typically happens when either invested assets or liabilities, but not both is indexed to inflation. Foreign exchange risk is the possibility that changes in exchange rates produce an adverse effect on earnings and equity when measured in domestic currency. This risk is largest when assets backing liabilities payable in one currency are invested in financial instruments of another currency. Our general principle is to invest in assets that match the currency in which we expect the liabilities to be paid. Interest Rate Risk Interest rate risk arises as we invest substantial funds in interest sensitive fixed income assets, such as fixed maturity securities, mortgage backed and asset backed securities and commercial mortgage loans, primarily in the United States and Canada. There are two forms of interest rate risk price risk and reinvestment risk. Price 87 Table of Contents risk occurs when fluctuations in interest rates have a direct impact on the market valuation of these investments. As interest rates rise, the market value of these investments falls, and conversely, as interest rates fall, the market value of these investments rises. Reinvestment risk occurs when fluctuations in interest rates have a direct impact on expected cash flows from mortgage backed and asset backed securities. As interest rates fall, an increase in prepayments on these assets results in earlier than expected receipt of cash flows forcing us to reinvest the proceeds in an unfavorable lower interest rate environment. Conversely, as interest rates rise, a decrease in prepayments on these assets results in later than expected receipt of cash flows forcing us to forgo reinvesting in a favorable higher interest rate environment. We manage interest rate risk by selecting investments with characteristics such as duration, yield, currency and liquidity tailored to the anticipated cash outflow characteristics of our insurance and reinsurance liabilities. Our group long term disability reserves are also sensitive to interest rates. Group long term disability and group term life waiver of premium reserves are discounted to the valuation date at the valuation interest rate. The valuation interest rate is determined by taking into consideration actual and expected earned rates on our asset portfolio. The interest rate sensitivity relating to price risk of our fixed maturity securities is assessed using hypothetical scenarios that assume several positive and negative parallel shifts of the yield curves. We have assumed that the United States and Canadian yield curve shifts are of equal direction and magnitude. The individual securities are repriced under each scenario using a valuation model. For investments such as callable bonds and mortgage backed and asset backed securities, a prepayment model was used in conjunction with a valuation model. Our actual experience may differ from the results noted below particularly due to assumptions utilized or if events occur that were not included in the methodology. The following table summarizes the results of this analysis for bonds, mortgage backed and asset backed securities held in our investment portfolio: Interest Rate Movement Analysis of Market Value of Fixed Maturity Securities Investment Portfolio As of December 31, 2009 100 50 0 50 100 Total market value $ 10,680,018 $ 10,316,329 $ 9,966,772 $ 9,632,477 $ 9,315,290 % Change in market value from base case 7.16 % 3.51 % % 3.35 % 6.54 % $ Change in market value from base case $ 713,246 $ 349,557 $ $ 334,295 $ 651,482 The interest rate sensitivity relating to reinvestment risk of our fixed maturity securities is assessed using hypothetical scenarios that assume purchases in the primary market and considers the effects of interest rates on sales. The effects of embedded options including call or put features are not considered. Our actual results may differ from the results noted below particularly due to assumptions utilized or if events occur that were not included in the methodology. 88 Table of Contents The following table summarizes the results of this analysis on our reported portfolio yield: Interest Rate Movement Analysis of Portfolio Yield of Fixed Maturity Securities Investment Portfolio As of December 31, 2009 100 50 0 50 100 Portfolio yield 5.80 % 5.85 % 5.89 % 5.93 % 5.98 % Basis point change in portfolio yield (0.09 )% (0.04 )% % 0.04 % 0.09 % Credit Risk We have exposure to credit risk primarily from customers, as a holder of fixed maturity securities and by entering into reinsurance cessions. Our risk management strategy and investment policy is to invest in debt instruments of high credit quality issuers and to limit the amount of credit exposure with respect to any one issuer. We attempt to limit our credit exposure by imposing fixed maturity portfolio limits on individual issuers based upon credit quality. Currently our portfolio limits are 1.5% for issuers rated AA and above, 1% for issuers rated A to A+, 0.75% for issuers rated BBB to BBB+ and 0.38% for issuers rated BB to BB+. These portfolio limits are further reduced for certain issuers with whom we have credit exposure on reinsurance agreements. We use the lower of Moodys or S&Ps ratings to determine an issuers rating. The following table presents our fixed maturity investment portfolio by ratings of the nationally recognized securities rating organizations as of December 31, 2009: Rating Fair Value Percentage ofTotal Aaa/Aa/A $ 6,152,842 62 % Baa 2,953,964 30 % Ba 647,321 6 % B and lower 212,645 2 % Total $ 9,966,772 100 % We are also exposed to the credit risk of our reinsurers. When we reinsure, we are still liable to our insureds regardless of whether we get reimbursed by our reinsurer. As part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various business segments as described above under Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Reinsurance. For at least 50% of our $4,212,863 of reinsurance recoverables at December 31, 2009, we are protected from the credit risk by using various types of risk mitigation mechanisms such as trusts, letters of credit or by withholding the assets in a modified coinsurance or co funds withheld arrangement. For example, reserves of $1,218,501 and $1,569,252 as of December 31, 2009 relating to two large coinsurance arrangements with The Hartford and John Hancock, respectively, related to sales of businesses are held in trusts. If the value of the assets in these trusts falls below the value of the associated liabilities, The Hartford and John Hancock, as the case may be, will be required to put more assets in the trusts. We may be dependent on the financial condition of The Hartford and John Hancock, whose A.M. Best ratings are currently A and A+, respectively. A.M. Best maintains a negative outlook on the issuer credit and financial strength ratings of The Hartford. The A.M. Best ratings of John Hancock are stable. For recoverables that are not protected by these mechanisms, we are dependent solely on the credit of the reinsurer. Occasionally, the credit worthiness of the reinsurer becomes questionable. See Item 1A Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Company Reinsurance may not be available or adequate to 89 Table of Contents protect us against losses, and we are subject to the credit risk of reinsurers and We have sold businesses through reinsurance that could again become our direct financial and administrative responsibility if the purchasing Companies were to become insolvent. We believe that a majority of our reinsurance exposure has been ceded to companies rated A or better by A.M. Best. Inflation Risk Inflation risk arises as we invest substantial funds in nominal assets, which are not indexed to the level of inflation, whereas the underlying liabilities are indexed to the level of inflation. Approximately 9% of Assurant preneeds insurance policies with reserves of $341,956 as of December 31, 2009 have death benefits that are guaranteed to grow with the CPI. In times of rapidly rising inflation, the credited death benefit growth on these liabilities increases relative to the investment income earned on the nominal assets resulting in an adverse impact on earnings. We have partially mitigated this risk by purchasing contracts with payments tied to the CPI. See Derivatives. In addition, we have inflation risk in our individual and small employer group health insurance businesses to the extent that medical costs increase with inflation, and we have not been able to increase premiums to keep pace with inflation. Foreign Exchange Risk We are exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from our international operations, mainly in Canada. We also have limited foreign exchange risk exposure to currencies other than the Canadian dollar, primarily the British pound and Brazilian Real. However, total invested assets denominated in these other currencies were less than 2% of our total invested assets at December 31, 2009. Foreign exchange risk is mitigated by matching our liabilities under insurance policies that are payable in foreign currencies with investments that are denominated in such currency. We have not established any hedge to our foreign currency exchange rate exposure. The foreign exchange risk sensitivity of our fixed maturity securities denominated in Canadian dollars, whose balance was $1,141,656 of the total, on our entire fixed maturity portfolio is summarized in the following table: Foreign Exchange Movement Analysis of Market Value of Fixed Maturity Securities Assets As of December 31, 2009 Foreign exchange spot rate at December 31, 2009, US Dollar to Canadian Dollar 10% 5% 0 5% 10% Total market value $ 9,852,603 $ 9,909,688 $ 9,966,772 $ 10,023,856 $ 10,080,941 % change of market value from base case (1.15 )% (0.57 )% % 0.57 % 1.15 % $ change of market value from base case $ (114,169 ) $ (57,084 ) $ $ 57,084 $ 114,169 90 Table of Contents The foreign exchange risk sensitivity of our consolidated net income is assessed using hypothetical test scenarios that assume earnings in Canadian dollars are recognized evenly throughout a period. Our actual results may differ from the results noted below particularly due to assumptions utilized or if events occur that were not included in the methodology. For more information on this risk. Please see Item 1A Risk Factors Risk Related to Our Company Fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies may materially and adversely impact our results of operations. The following table summarizes the results of this analysis on our reported net income: Foreign Exchange Movement Analysis Of Net Income As of December 31, 2009 Foreign exchange daily average rate for the yearended December 31, 2009, US Dollar to Canadian Dollar 10% 5% 0 5% 10% Net income $ 427,843 $ 429,208 $ 430,574 $ 431,940 $ 433,305 % change of net income from base case (0.63 )% (0.32 )% 0.00 % 0.32 % 0.63 % $ change of net income from base case $ (2,731 ) $ (1,366 ) $ (0 ) $ 1,366 $ 2,731 Derivatives Derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest rates, foreign exchange rates, financial indices or the prices of securities or commodities. Derivative financial instruments may be exchange traded or contracted in the over the counter market and include swaps, futures, options and forward contracts. Under insurance statutes, our insurance companies may use derivative financial instruments to hedge actual or anticipated changes in their assets or liabilities, to replicate cash market instruments or for certain income generating activities. These statutes generally prohibit the use of derivatives for speculative purposes. We generally do not use derivative financial instruments. We have purchased contracts to cap the inflation risk exposure inherent in some of our preneed insurance policies. In accordance with the guidance on embedded derivatives, which is within ASC Topic 815, we have bifurcated the modified coinsurance agreement with The Hartford into its debt host and embedded derivative (total return swap) and recorded the embedded derivative at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets. The invested assets related to this modified coinsurance agreement are included in other investments on the consolidated balance sheets. 91 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Reinsurance. For at least 50% of our $4,212,863 of reinsurance recoverables at December 31, 2009, we are protected from the credit risk by using various types of risk mitigation mechanisms such as trusts, letters of credit or by withholding the assets in a modified coinsurance or co funds withheld arrangement. For example, reserves of $1,218,501 and $1,569,252 as of December 31, 2009 relating to two large coinsurance arrangements with The Hartford and John Hancock, respectively, related to sales of businesses are held in trusts. If the value of the assets in these trusts falls below the value of the associated liabilities, The Hartford and John Hancock, as the case may be, will be required to put more assets in the trusts. We may be dependent on the financial condition of The Hartford and John Hancock, whose A.M. Best ratings are currently A and A+, respectively. A.M. Best maintains a negative outlook on the issuer credit and financial strength ratings of The Hartford. The A.M. Best ratings of John Hancock are stable. For recoverables that are not protected by these mechanisms, we are dependent solely on the credit of the reinsurer. Occasionally, the credit worthiness of the reinsurer becomes questionable. See Item 1A Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Company Reinsurance may not be available or adequate to 89 Table of Contents protect us against losses, and we are subject to the credit risk of reinsurers and We have sold businesses through reinsurance that could again become our direct financial and administrative responsibility if the purchasing Companies were to become insolvent. We believe that a majority of our reinsurance exposure has been ceded to companies rated A or better by A.M. Best. Inflation Risk Inflation risk arises as we invest substantial funds in nominal assets, which are not indexed to the level of inflation, whereas the underlying liabilities are indexed to the level of inflation. Approximately 9% of Assurant preneeds insurance policies with reserves of $341,956 as of December 31, 2009 have death benefits that are guaranteed to grow with the CPI. In times of rapidly rising inflation, the credited death benefit growth on these liabilities increases relative to the investment income earned on the nominal assets resulting in an adverse impact on earnings. We have partially mitigated this risk by purchasing contracts with payments tied to the CPI. See Derivatives. In addition, we have inflation risk in our individual and small employer group health insurance businesses to the extent that medical costs increase with inflation, and we have not been able to increase premiums to keep pace with inflation. Foreign Exchange Risk We are exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from our international operations, mainly in Canada. We also have limited foreign exchange risk exposure to currencies other than the Canadian dollar, primarily the British pound and Brazilian Real. However, total invested assets denominated in these other currencies were less than 2% of our total invested assets at December 31, 2009. Foreign exchange risk is mitigated by matching our liabilities under insurance policies that are payable in foreign currencies with investments that are denominated in such currency. We have not established any hedge to our foreign currency exchange rate exposure. The foreign exchange risk sensitivity of our fixed maturity securities denominated in Canadian dollars, whose balance was $1,141,656 of the total, on our entire fixed maturity portfolio is summarized in the following table: Foreign Exchange Movement Analysis of Market Value of Fixed Maturity Securities Assets As of December 31, 2009 Foreign exchange spot rate at December 31, 2009, US Dollar to Canadian Dollar 10% 5% 0 5% 10% Total market value $ 9,852,603 $ 9,909,688 $ 9,966,772 $ 10,023,856 $ 10,080,941 % change of market value from base case (1.15 )% (0.57 )% % 0.57 % 1.15 % $ change of market value from base case $ (114,169 ) $ (57,084 ) $ $ 57,084 $ 114,169 90 Table of Contents The foreign exchange risk sensitivity of our consolidated net income is assessed using hypothetical test scenarios that assume earnings in Canadian dollars are recognized evenly throughout a period. Our actual results may differ from the results noted below particularly due to assumptions utilized or if events occur that were not included in the methodology. For more information on this risk. Please see Item 1A Risk Factors Risk Related to Our Company Fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies may materially and adversely impact our results of operations. The following table summarizes the results of this analysis on our reported net income: Foreign Exchange Movement Analysis Of Net Income As of December 31, 2009 Foreign exchange daily average rate for the yearended December 31, 2009, US Dollar to Canadian Dollar 10% 5% 0 5% 10% Net income $ 427,843 $ 429,208 $ 430,574 $ 431,940 $ 433,305 % change of net income from base case (0.63 )% (0.32 )% 0.00 % 0.32 % 0.63 % $ change of net income from base case $ (2,731 ) $ (1,366 ) $ (0 ) $ 1,366 $ 2,731 Derivatives Derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest rates, foreign exchange rates, financial indices or the prices of securities or commodities. Derivative financial instruments may be exchange traded or contracted in the over the counter market and include swaps, futures, options and forward contracts. Under insurance statutes, our insurance companies may use derivative financial instruments to hedge actual or anticipated changes in their assets or liabilities, to replicate cash market instruments or for certain income generating activities. These statutes generally prohibit the use of derivatives for speculative purposes. We generally do not use derivative financial instruments. We have purchased contracts to cap the inflation risk exposure inherent in some of our preneed insurance policies. In accordance with the guidance on embedded derivatives, which is within ASC Topic 815, we have bifurcated the modified coinsurance agreement with The Hartford into its debt host and embedded derivative (total return swap) and recorded the embedded derivative at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets. The invested assets related to this modified coinsurance agreement are included in other investments on the consolidated balance sheets. 91 Table of Contents 
 
