Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes which appear elsewhere in this report. It contains forward looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward looking statements as a result of various factors, including those discussed below and elsewhere in this report, particularly under the headings Item 1A Risk Factors and Forward Looking Statements. General We report our results through five segments: Assurant Solutions, Assurant Specialty Property, Assurant Health, Assurant Employee Benefits, and Corporate and Other. The Corporate and Other segment includes activities of the holding company, financing expenses, net realized gains (losses) on investments, interest income earned from short term investments held, interest income from excess surplus of insurance subsidiaries not allocated to other segments, run off Asbestos business, and additional costs associated with excess of loss reinsurance and ceded to certain subsidiaries in the London market between 1995 and 1997. The Corporate and Other segment also includes the amortization of deferred gains associated with the portions of the sales of FFG and LTC, which were sold through reinsurance agreements as described below. The following discussion covers the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 (Twelve Months 2010), twelve months ended December 31, 2009 (Twelve Months 2009) and twelve months ended December 31, 2008 (Twelve Months 2008). Please see the discussion that follows, for each of these segments, for a more detailed analysis of the fluctuations. 37 Table of Contents Executive Summary Net income decreased $151,397, or 35%, to $279,177 for Twelve Months 2010 from $430,574 for Twelve Months 2009. Twelve Months 2010 includes $107,075 (after tax) of improved operating segment results and $66,300 (after tax) of increased realized gains on investments, compared with Twelve Months 2009. However, results decreased primarily due to a non cash goodwill impairment charge of $306,381 in Twelve Months 2010 compared with an $83,000 non cash goodwill impairment charge in Twelve Months 2009. In addition, Twelve Months 2009 includes an $83,542 (after tax) favorable legal settlement. Assurant Solutions net income decreased to $103,206 for Twelve Months 2010 compared with $120,052 for Twelve Months 2009. Excluding a $30,948 (after tax) intangible asset impairment charge, net income increased $14,102. This charge was related to a client notification in Fourth Quarter 2010 of a non renewal of a block of domestic service contract business effective June 1, 2011. During 2010, Assurant Solutions continued to focus on developing new client relationships and distribution channels while managing expenses. These efforts generated increased gross written premiums of $232,578 compared with prior year. In our domestic business, we are diversifying our client base by growing the Original Equipment Manufacturer channel. The Twelve Months 2010 international combined ratio improved 480 basis points compared with Twelve Months 2009, led by improvements in the United Kingdom (U.K.). In addition, we added new international wireless clients in markets we believe continues to offer growth opportunities. We also added new Latin American service contracts and credit insurance clients, a trend we expect will continue in 2011. Growth in Europe is proving to be more challenging, but we believe our product offerings position us well for when the European economy recovers. Our preneed life insurance business continued to deliver strong results as new sales and operating profits improved 43% and 15%, respectively, over prior year. We expect this business to continue its solid performance in 2011. Assurant Specialty Property produced another strong year as segment results increased to $424,287 for Twelve Months 2010, from $405,997 for Twelve Months 2009. Assurant Specialty Property implemented many process improvements in 2010 that controlled expenses while adding new clients and tracking more loans. During 2010 and 2009, the lack of major catastrophic storm activity has helped drive strong results. However, during the fourth quarter of 2010, we experienced $9,811 (after tax) of catastrophe related losses due to wind and hail storms in Arizona. Loan counts, a key performance indicator, increased in 2010 compared with 2009 primarily due to the addition of new clients. Placement rate for prime loans during the fourth quarter of 2010 were at their highest levels ever and we expect them to remain elevated through 2011. However, subprime placement rates declined to their lowest levels since September 2008. In the aggregate, placement rates continue to rise, though we believe that total placement rates and loan inventories will decline to historical levels over the next several years. The classification between prime and subprime is blurring due to loan portfolio movement within the industry and inconsistent classifications by lenders. We believe the clients we added in 2010 combined with our alignment with leading mortgage servicers should help offset these declines. Assurant Health increased its net income to $54,029 for Twelve Months 2010 from a net loss of $(30,220) for Twelve Months 2009 while preparing to operate in an environment with new regulations and changing dynamics in 2011. This improved financial performance was driven by pricing actions, plan design changes, and substantial cost reductions. Our sales, like most of our competitors, have slowed as consumers and agents adjust to the post reform environment. The Affordable Care Act has altered and created disruption in the health insurance marketplace that will likely continue for some time. We have implemented transformational actions in the business during 2010, most notably a reduced commission structure for our distributors, which will better position us to compete in the future. We anticipate adapting our strategy as we more fully understand how consumers, providers, and distributors adjust to the new health care environment. 2011 will be a transition year at Assurant Health, as we continue to streamline and simplify our operations, while enhancing service for our customers. Please see Results of Operations Assurant Health that follows for further information. Assurant Employee Benefits net income increased to $63,538 for Twelve Months 2010 compared with $42,156 for Twelve Months 2009 driven by favorable claims experience and expense management. Assurant Employee Benefits continues to emphasize worksite and voluntary products, which provide affordable solutions 38 Table of Contents that meet the needs of employers and employees. However, until employment rates increase and payrolls expand, revenue growth will be challenged. We expect our dental business results to continue to improve due to pricing actions taken, but we expect life and disability loss experience to revert to more traditional levels. We plan to lower our discount rate for new long term disability claims in 2011, as interest rates remain at low levels. This low interest rate environment will also continue to pressure our investment income. Critical Factors Affecting Results Our results depend on the appropriateness of our product pricing and underwriting, the accuracy of the reserves we establish for future policyholder benefits and claims, returns on invested assets and our ability to manage our expenses. Therefore, factors affecting these items may have a material adverse effect on our results of operations or financial condition. For a listing of those factors see Item 1A Risk Factors. Revenues We generate revenues primarily from the sale of our insurance policies and service contracts and from investment income earned on our investments. Sales of insurance policies are recognized in revenue as earned premiums while sales of administrative services are recognized as fee income. Effective January 1, 2009, new preneed life insurance policies in which death benefit increases are determined at the discretion of the Company are accounted for as universal life contracts under the universal life insurance accounting guidance. For contracts sold prior to January 1, 2009, these types of preneed life insurance sales were accounted for and will continue to be accounted for under limited pay insurance guidance. The change from reporting certain preneed life insurance policies in accordance with the universal life insurance guidance versus the limited pay insurance guidance is not material to the consolidated statement of operations or balance sheets. Under the universal life insurance guidance, income earned on new preneed life insurance policies is presented within policy fee income net of policyholder benefits. Under the limited pay insurance guidance, the consideration received on preneed policies is presented separately as net earned premiums, with policyholder benefits expense being shown separately. Our premium and fee income is supplemented by income earned from our investment portfolio. We recognize revenue from interest payments, dividends and sales of investments. Currently, our investment portfolio is primarily invested in fixed maturity securities. Both investment income and realized capital gains on these investments can be significantly affected by changes in interest rates. Interest rate volatility can increase or reduce unrealized gains or unrealized losses in our portfolios. Interest rates are highly sensitive to many factors, including governmental monetary policies, domestic and international economic and political conditions and other factors beyond our control. Fluctuations in interest rates affect our returns on, and the market value of, fixed maturity and short term investments. Beginning January 1, 2011, Assurant Health will be required to start accruing for rebates to customers if the minimum loss ratio for some of its products is less than 80%. The rebate accrual will be reflected as a reduction to net earned premiums in the Statement of Operations. The fair market value of the fixed maturity securities in our portfolio and the investment income from these securities fluctuate depending on general economic and market conditions. The fair market value generally increases or decreases in an inverse relationship with fluctuations in interest rates, while net investment income realized by us from future investments in fixed maturity securities will generally increase or decrease with interest rates. We also have investments that carry pre payment risk, such as mortgage backed and asset backed securities. Interest rate fluctuations may cause actual net investment income and or cash flows from such investments to differ from estimates made at the time of investment. In periods of declining interest rates, 39 Table of Contents mortgage prepayments generally increase and mortgage backed securities, commercial mortgage obligations and bonds are more likely to be prepaid or redeemed as borrowers seek to borrow at lower interest rates. Therefore, in these circumstances we may be required to reinvest those funds in lower interest investments. Expenses Our expenses are primarily policyholder benefits, selling, underwriting and general expenses and interest expense. Policyholder benefits are affected by our claims management programs, reinsurance coverage, contractual terms and conditions, regulatory requirements, economic conditions, and numerous other factors. Benefits paid could substantially exceed our expectations, causing a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. Selling, underwriting and general expenses consist primarily of commissions, premium taxes, licenses, fees, amortization of deferred costs, general operating expenses and income taxes. We incur interest related expenses related to our debt and mandatorily redeemable preferred stock. Critical Accounting Estimates Certain items in our consolidated financial statements are based on estimates and judgment. Differences between actual results and these estimates could in some cases have material impacts on our consolidated financial statements. The following critical accounting policies require significant estimates. The actual amounts realized in these areas could ultimately be materially different from the amounts currently provided for in our consolidated financial statements. Reserves Reserves are established in accordance with GAAP using generally accepted actuarial methods and reflect judgments about expected future claim payments. Calculations incorporate assumptions about inflation rates, the incidence of incurred claims, the extent to which all claims have been reported, future claims processing, lags and expenses and future investment earnings, and numerous other factors. While the methods of making such estimates and establishing the related liabilities are periodically reviewed and updated, the calculation of reserves is not an exact process. Reserves do not represent precise calculations of expected future claims, but instead represent our best estimates at a point in time of the ultimate costs of settlement and administration of a claim or group of claims, based upon actuarial assumptions and projections using facts and circumstances known at the time of calculation. Many of the factors affecting reserve adequacy are not directly quantifiable and not all future events can be anticipated when reserves are established. Reserve estimates are refined as experience develops. Adjustments to reserves, both positive and negative, are reflected in the statement of operations in the period in which such estimates are updated. Because establishment of reserves is an inherently uncertain process, there can be no certainty that ultimate losses will not exceed existing claims reserves. Future loss development could require reserves to be increased, which could have a material adverse effect on our earnings in the periods in which such increases are made. 40 Table of Contents The following table provides reserve information of our major product lines for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009: December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 FuturePolicyBenefits andExpenses UnearnedPremiums Claims and BenefitsPayable FuturePolicyBenefits andExpenses UnearnedPremiums Claims and BenefitsPayable CaseReserves IncurredBut NotReportedReserves CaseReserve IncurredBut NotReportedReserves Long Duration Contracts: Preneed funeral life insurance policies and investment type annuity contracts $ 3,862,431 $ 78,986 $ 12,009 $ 4,085 $ 3,629,601 $ 37,672 $ 10,431 $ 4,018 Life insurance no longer offered 467,574 649 1,577 265 478,839 681 1,639 339 Universal life and other products no longer offered 246,177 197 272 8,727 263,360 168 233 8,744 FFG, LTC and other disposed businesses 3,435,762 39,119 33,535 567,557 2,879,224 41,531 25,542 421,605 Medical 87,588 9,340 7,515 11,044 93,447 11,665 18,137 13,737 All other 5,621 324 18,465 5,115 5,162 335 18,197 6,225 Short Duration Contracts: Group term life 4,550 209,514 36,486 3,710 218,191 37,419 Group disability 2,567 1,251,999 152,275 7,705 1,274,378 143,052 Medical 104,169 104,288 186,102 112,603 169,260 190,366 Dental 4,400 3,079 18,063 4,334 5,709 19,464 Property and Warranty 1,887,759 168,952 349,479 1,896,897 173,009 368,242 Credit Life and Disability 307,430 61,808 69,644 366,313 81,726 77,581 Extended Service Contracts 2,363,836 2,855 40,373 2,482,683 2,350 50,207 All other 260,673 8,211 17,875 187,267 10,013 16,513 Total $ 8,105,153 $ 5,063,999 $ 1,884,079 $ 1,467,090 $ 7,349,633 $ 5,153,564 $ 2,008,815 $ 1,357,512 For a description of our reserving methodology, see Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report. Long Duration Contracts Reserves for future policy benefits represent the present value of future benefits to policyholders and related expenses less the present value of future net premiums. Reserve assumptions reflect best estimates for expected investment yield, inflation, mortality, morbidity, expenses and withdrawal rates. These assumptions are based on our experience to the extent it is credible, modified where appropriate to reflect current trends, industry experience and provisions for possible unfavorable deviation. We also record an unearned revenue reserve which represents premiums received which have not yet been recognized in our income statements. Historically, premium deficiency testing has not resulted in a material adjustment to deferred acquisition costs or reserves. Such adjustments could occur however, if economic or mortality conditions significantly deteriorated. Risks related to the reserves recorded for certain discontinued individual life, annuity, and long term care insurance policies have been 100% ceded via reinsurance. While the Company has not been released from the contractual obligation to the policyholders, changes in and deviations from economic and mortality assumptions used in the calculation of these reserves will not directly affect our results of operations unless there is a default by the assuming reinsurer. 41 Table of Contents Short Duration Contracts Claims and benefits payable reserves for short duration contracts include (1) case reserves for known claims which are unpaid as of the balance sheet date; (2) IBNR reserves for claims where the insured event has occurred but has not been reported to us as of the balance sheet date; and (3) loss adjustment expense reserves for the expected handling costs of settling the claims. Periodically, we review emerging experience and make adjustments to our reserves and assumptions where necessary. Below are further discussions on the reserving process for our major short duration products. Group Disability and Group Term Life Case or claim reserves are set for active individual claims on group long term disability policies and for waiver of premium benefits on group term life policies. Reserve factors used to calculate these reserves reflect assumptions regarding disabled life mortality and claim recovery rates, claim management practices, awards for social security and other benefit offsets and yield rates earned on assets supporting the reserves. Group long term disability and group term life waiver of premium reserves are discounted because the payment pattern and ultimate cost are fixed and determinable on an individual claim basis. Our reserves discount rate for claims incurred prior to 2011 is 5.25%. Though our final determination has not yet been made, our current estimate is that claims incurred after 2011 will be 50 to 100 basis points lower, which will ultimately increase policyholder benefits. Factors considered when setting IBNR reserves include patterns in elapsed time from claim incidence to claim reporting, and elapsed time from claim reporting to claim payment. Key sensitivities at December 31, 2010 for group long term disability claim reserves include the discount rate and claim termination rates. Claims andBenefits Payable Claims andBenefits Payable Group disability, discount rate decreased by 100 basis points $ 1,475,253 Group disability, claim termination rate 10% lower $ 1,440,519 Group disability, as reported $ 1,404,274 Group disability, as reported $ 1,404,274 Group disability, discount rate increased by 100 basis points $ 1,340,328 Group disability, claim termination rate 10% higher $ 1,371,305 The discount rate is also a key sensitivity for group term life waiver of premium reserves. Claims and Benefits Payable Group term life, discount rate decreased by 100 basis points $ 255,162 Group term life, as reported $ 246,000 Group life, discount rate increased by 100 basis points $ 237,765 Medical IBNR reserves calculated using generally accepted actuarial methods represent the largest component of reserves for Medical claims and benefits payable. The primary methods we use in their estimation are the loss development method and the projected claim method for recent claim periods. Under the loss development method, we estimate ultimate losses for each incident period by multiplying the current cumulative losses by the appropriate loss development factor. The projected claim method is used when development methods do not provide enough data to reliably estimate reserves and utilize expected ultimate loss ratios to calculate the required reserve. Where appropriate, we use variations on each method or a blend of the two. 42 Table of Contents Reserves for our various product lines are calculated using experience data where credible. If sufficient experience data is not available, data from other similar blocks may be used. Industry data provides additional benchmarks when historical experience is too limited. Reserve factors may also be adjusted to reflect factors not reflected in historical experience, such as changes in claims inventory levels, changes in provider negotiated rates or cost savings initiatives, increasing or decreasing medical cost trends, product changes and demographic changes in the underlying insured population. Key sensitivities as of December 31, 2010 for medical reserves include claims processing levels, claims under case management, medical inflation, seasonal effects, medical provider discounts and product mix. Claims and Benefits Payable* Medical, loss development factors 1% lower $ 303,390 Medical, as reported $ 290,390 Medical, loss development factors 1% higher $ 278,390 * This refers to loss development factors for the most recent four months. Our historical claims experience indicates that approximately 87% of medical claims are paid within four months of the incurred date. None of the changes in incurred claims from prior years in our Medical line of business were attributable to any change in our reserve methods. Property and Warranty Our Property and Warranty lines of business includes lender placed homeowners, manufactured housing homeowners, credit property, credit unemployment and warranty insurance and some longer tail coverages (e.g. asbestos, environmental, other general liability and personal accident). Reserves for these lines are calculated on a product line basis using generally accepted actuarial principles and methods. They consist of case and IBNR reserves. The method we most often use in setting our Property and Warranty reserves is the loss development method. Under this method, we estimate ultimate losses for each accident period by multiplying the current cumulative losses by the appropriate loss development factor. We then calculate the reserve as the difference between the estimate of ultimate losses and the current case incurred losses (paid losses plus case reserves). We select loss development factors based on a review of historical averages, adjusted to reflect recent trends and business specific matters such as current claims payment practices. The loss development method involves aggregating loss data (paid losses and case incurred losses) by accident quarter (or accident year) and accident age for each product or product grouping. As the data ages, we compile loss development factors that measure emerging claim development patterns between reporting periods. By selecting the most appropriate loss development factors, we project the known losses to an ultimate incurred basis for each accident period. The data is typically analyzed using quarterly paid losses and or quarterly case incurred losses. Some product groupings may also use annual paid loss and or annual case incurred losses, as well as other actuarially accepted methods. Each of these data groupings produces an indication of the loss reserves for the product or product grouping. The process to select the best estimate differs by line of business. The single best estimate is determined based on many factors, including but not limited to: the nature and extent of the underlying assumptions; the quality and applicability of historical data whether internal or industry data; current and future market conditions the economic environment will often impact the development of loss triangles; 43 Table of Contents the extent of data segmentation data should be homogeneous yet credible enough for loss development methods to apply; and the past variability of loss estimates the loss estimates on some product lines will vary from actual loss experience more than others. Most of our credit insurance business is written on a retrospective commission basis, which permits management to adjust commissions based on claims experience. Thus, any adjustment to prior years incurred claims in this line of business is partially offset by a change in contingent commissions, which is included in the selling, underwriting and general expenses line in our results of operations. While management has used its best judgment in establishing its estimate of required reserves, different assumptions and variables could lead to significantly different reserve estimates. Two key measures of loss activity are loss frequency, which is a measure of the number of claims per unit of insured exposure, and loss severity, which is a measure of the average size of claims. Factors affecting loss frequency include the effectiveness of loss controls and safety programs and changes in economic activity or weather patterns. Factors affecting loss severity include changes in policy limits, retentions, rate of inflation and judicial interpretations. If the actual level of loss frequency and severity are higher or lower than expected, the ultimate reserves required will be different than managements estimate. The effect of higher and lower levels of loss frequency and severity levels on our ultimate costs for claims occurring in 2010 would be as follows: Change in both loss frequency and severity for all Property and Warranty Ultimate cost of claimsoccurring in 2010 Change in cost of claimsoccurring in 2010 3% higher $ 550,004 $ 31,573 2% higher $ 539,376 $ 20,945 1% higher $ 528,852 $ 10,421 Base scenario $ 518,431 $ 0 1% lower $ 508,010 $ (10,421 ) 2% lower $ 497,486 $ (20,945 ) 3% lower $ 486,858 $ (31,573 ) Reserving for Asbestos and Other Claims Our property and warranty line of business includes exposure to asbestos, environmental and other general liability claims arising from our participation in various reinsurance pools from 1971 through 1985. This exposure arose from a short duration contract that we discontinued writing many years ago. We carry case reserves, as recommended by the various pool managers, and IBNR reserves totaling $35,668 (before reinsurance) and $25,461 (net of reinsurance) at December 31, 2010. We believe the balance of case and IBNR reserves for these liabilities are adequate. However, any estimation of these liabilities is subject to greater than normal variation and uncertainty due to the general lack of sufficiently detailed data, reporting delays and absence of a generally accepted actuarial methodology for those exposures. There are significant unresolved industry legal issues, including such items as whether coverage exists and what constitutes a claim. In addition, the determination of ultimate damages and the final allocation of losses to financially responsible parties are highly uncertain. However, based on information currently available, and after consideration of the reserves reflected in the consolidated financial statements, we do not believe that changes in reserve estimates for these claims are likely to be material. One of our subsidiaries, American Reliable Insurance Company (ARIC), participated in certain excess of loss reinsurance programs in the London market and, as a result, reinsured certain personal accident, ransom and 44 Table of Contents kidnap insurance risks from 1995 to 1997. ARIC and a foreign affiliate ceded a portion of these risks to retrocessionaires. ARIC ceased reinsuring such business in 1997. However, certain risks continued beyond 1997 due to the nature of the reinsurance contracts written. ARIC and some of the other reinsurers involved in the programs have sought to void certain treaties on various grounds, including material misrepresentation and non disclosure by the ceding companies and intermediaries involved in the programs. Some of the retrocessionaires have sought to avoid certain treaties with ARIC and the other reinsurers and some reinsureds have sought collection of disputed balances under some of the treaties. Disputes under these contracts generally involve multiple layers of reinsurance, and allegations that the reinsurance programs involved interrelated claims spirals devised to disproportionately pass claims losses to higher level reinsurance layers. Many of the companies involved in these programs, including ARIC, are currently involved in negotiations, arbitrations and or litigation, in an effort to resolve these disputes. The disputes involving ARIC and an affiliate, Assurant General Insurance Limited (formerly Bankers Insurance Company Limited (AGIL)), for the 1995 and 1996 program years are subject to working group settlements negotiated with other market participants. Negotiations, arbitrations and litigation are still ongoing or will be scheduled for the remaining disputes. In 2007, there were two settlements relating to parts of the 1997 program. During 2008, there was a settlement relating to the 1997 program. Loss accruals previously established relating to the 1996 and 1997 program were adequate. In 2010, the loss reserve balance decreased by $18,600 resulting from a $9,200 settlement relating to the 1997 program and settlements made to the 1995 and 1996 programs. As of December 31, 2010, we have $6,521 in loss reserves accrued. We believe, based on information currently available, that the amounts accrued are adequate. However, the inherent uncertainty of arbitrations and lawsuits, including the uncertainty of estimating whether any settlements we may enter into in the future would be on favorable terms, makes it difficult to predict outcomes with certainty. In June 2009, ARIC and AGIL, wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company, entered into a settlement agreement with Willis Limited, a subsidiary of Willis Group Holdings Limited (Willis Limited). The settlement agreement related to an action commenced in 2007 in the English Commercial Court pertaining to the placement of personal accident reinsurance. Under the settlement agreement, Willis Limited paid ARIC and AGIL a total of $139,000, which was recorded in the Corporate and Other segment. DAC Deferred acquisition costs (DAC) represent expenses incurred in prior periods primarily for the production of new business, that have been deferred for financial reporting purposes. Acquisition costs primarily consist of commissions, policy issuance expenses, premium tax and certain direct marketing expenses. The DAC asset is tested annually to ensure that future premiums or gross profits are sufficient to support the amortization of the asset. Such testing involves the use of best estimate assumptions to determine if anticipated future policy premiums and investment income are adequate to cover all DAC and related claims, benefits and expenses. To the extent a deficiency exists, it is recognized immediately by a charge to the statement of operations and a corresponding reduction in the DAC asset. If the deficiency is greater than unamortized DAC, a liability will be accrued for the excess deficiency. Long Duration Contracts Acquisition costs for preneed life insurance policies issued prior to January 1, 2009 and certain discontinued life insurance policies have been deferred and amortized in proportion to anticipated premiums over the premium paying period. These acquisition costs consist primarily of first year commissions paid to agents and sales and policy issue costs. For preneed investment type annuities, preneed life insurance policies with discretionary death benefit growth issued after January 1, 2009, universal life insurance policies and investment type annuity contracts that 45 Table of Contents are no longer offered, DAC is amortized in proportion to the present value of estimated gross profits from investment, mortality, expense margins and surrender charges over the estimated life of the policy or contract. The assumptions used for the estimates are consistent with those used in computing the policy or contract liabilities. Acquisition costs relating to group worksite products, which typically have high front end costs and are expected to remain in force for an extended period of time, consist primarily of first year commissions to brokers and one time policy transfer fees and costs of issuing new certificates. These acquisition costs are front end loaded, thus they are deferred and amortized over the estimated terms of the underlying contracts. Acquisition costs relating to individual voluntary limited benefit health policies issued in 2007 and later are deferred and amortized over the estimated average terms of the underlying contracts. These acquisition costs relate to commissions payable under schedules that pay significantly higher rates in the first year. Short Duration Contracts Acquisition costs relating to property contracts, warranty and extended service contracts and single premium credit insurance contracts are amortized over the term of the contracts in relation to premiums earned. Acquisition costs relating to monthly pay credit insurance business consist mainly of direct marketing costs and are deferred and amortized over the estimated average terms and balances of the underlying contracts. Acquisition costs relating to group term life, group disability and group dental consist primarily of compensation to sales representatives. These acquisition costs are front end loaded; thus, they are deferred and amortized over the estimated terms of the underlying contracts. Acquisition costs on the majority of individual medical contracts issued from 2003 through 2006, all individual medical contracts issued after 2006 and all small group medical contracts consist primarily of commissions to agents and brokers and compensation to representatives. These contracts are considered short duration because the terms of the contract are not fixed at issue and they are not guaranteed renewable. As a result, these costs are not deferred, but rather are recorded in the statement of operations in the period in which they are incurred. Investments We regularly monitor our investment portfolio to ensure investments that may be other than temporarily impaired are identified in a timely fashion, properly valued, and charged against earnings in the proper period. The determination that a security has incurred an other than temporary decline in value requires the judgment of management. Assessment factors include, but are not limited to, the length of time and the extent to which the market value has been less than cost, the financial condition and rating of the issuer, whether any collateral is held, the intent and ability of the Company to retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for recovery for equity securities, or and the intent to sell or whether it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell for fixed maturity securities. Any equity security whose price decline is deemed other than temporary is written down to its then current market value with the amount of the impairment reported as a realized loss in that period. The impairment of a fixed maturity security that the Company has the intent to sell or that it is more likely than not that the Company will be required to sell is deemed other than temporary and is written down to its market value at the balance sheet date, with the amount of the impairment reported as a realized loss in that period. For all other than temporarily impaired fixed maturity securities that do not meet either of these two criteria, the Company analyzes its ability to recover the amortized cost of the security by calculating the net present value of projected future cash flows. For these other than temporarily impaired fixed maturity securities, the net amount recognized in earnings is equal to the difference between its amortized cost and its net present value. 46 Table of Contents Inherently, there are risks and uncertainties involved in making these judgments. Changes in circumstances and critical assumptions such as a continued weak economy, or unforeseen events which affect one or more companies, industry sectors or countries could result in additional impairments in future periods for other than temporary declines in value. See also Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report and Item 1A Risk Factors The value of our investments could decline, affecting our profitability and financial strength and Investments contained later in this item. Reinsurance Reinsurance recoverables include amounts we are owed by reinsurers. Reinsurance costs are expensed over the terms of the underlying reinsured policies using assumptions consistent with those used to account for the policies. Amounts recoverable from reinsurers are estimated in a manner consistent with claim and claim adjustment expense reserves or future policy benefits reserves and are reported in our consolidated balance sheets. An estimated allowance for doubtful accounts is recorded on the basis of periodic evaluations of balances due from reinsurers (net of collateral), reinsurer solvency, managements experience and current economic conditions. The ceding of insurance does not discharge our primary liability to our insureds. The following table sets forth our reinsurance recoverables as of the dates indicated: December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Reinsurance recoverables $ 4,997,316 $ 4,231,734 We have used reinsurance to exit certain businesses, including blocks of individual life, annuity, and long term care business. The reinsurance recoverables relating to these dispositions amounted to $3,488,908 and $2,790,765 at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. In the ordinary course of business, we are involved in both the assumption and cession of reinsurance with non affiliated companies. The following table provides details of the reinsurance recoverables balance for the years ended December 31: 2010 2009 Ceded future policyholder benefits and expense $ 3,344,066 $ 2,786,916 Ceded unearned premium 796,944 698,985 Ceded claims and benefits payable 823,731 680,836 Ceded paid losses 32,575 64,997 Total $ 4,997,316 $ 4,231,734 We utilize reinsurance for loss protection and capital management, business dispositions and, in Assurant Solutions and Assurant Specialty Property, client risk and profit sharing. See also Item 1A Risk Factors Reinsurance may not be available or adequate to protect us against losses and we are subject to the credit risk of insurers, and Item 7A Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Credit Risk. Retirement and Other Employee Benefits We sponsor qualified and non qualified pension plans and a retirement health benefits plan covering our employees who meet specified eligibility requirements. The calculation of reported expense and liability associated with these plans requires an extensive use of assumptions including factors such as discount rates, expected long term returns on plan assets, employee retirement and termination rates and future compensation increases. We determine these assumptions based upon currently available market and industry data, and historical performance of the plan and its assets. The assumptions we use may differ materially from actual 47 Table of Contents results. See Note 22 to our consolidated financial statements for more information on our retirement and other employee benefits, including a sensitivity analysis for changes in the assumed health care cost trend rates. Contingencies We account for contingencies using the Contingencies guidance. This requires management to evaluate each contingent matter separately. A loss is accrued if reasonably estimable and probable. We establish reserves for these contingencies at the best estimate, or, if no one estimated number within the range of possible losses is more probable than any other, we report an estimated reserve at the low end of the estimated range. Contingencies affecting the Company include litigation matters which are inherently difficult to evaluate and are subject to significant changes. Deferred Taxes Deferred income taxes are recorded for temporary differences between the financial reporting and income tax bases of assets and liabilities, based on enacted tax laws and statutory tax rates applicable to the periods in which the Company expects the temporary differences to reverse. A valuation allowance is established for deferred tax assets if, based on the weight of all available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion of the asset will not be realized. The valuation allowance is sufficient to reduce the asset to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized. The Company has significant deferred tax assets resulting from capital loss carryforwards and other temporary differences that may reduce taxable income in future periods. The detailed components of our deferred tax assets, liabilities and valuation allowance are included in Note 8 to our consolidated financial statements. During 2008, the Company realized a tax benefit of $174,864 upon the sale of a non operating subsidiary, United Family Life Insurance Company (UFLIC), and recorded an offsetting valuation allowance of $90,000. During 2009, the Company recognized $16,000 of other comprehensive income which reduced the valuation allowance to $74,000. During 2010, the Company recognized $6,000 of expense which increased the valuation allowance to $80,000. The increase in the valuation allowance was primarily related to fluctuations in gains resulting from certain tax planning strategies as well as fluctuations in gross unrealized gains. The gross deferred tax asset for cumulative realized and unrealized capital losses as of December 31, 2010 is $246,300, including the carryover from the loss on the sale of UFLIC. The realization of deferred tax assets depends upon the existence of sufficient taxable income of the same character during the carry back or carry forward period. U.S. tax rules mandate that capital losses can only be recovered against capital gains. An example of capital gains would be gains from the sale of investments. The company is dependent upon having capital gain income in the foreseeable future to use the capital loss carryforward in its entirety. To support the capital deferred tax asset, the Company is able to rely on future taxable capital gain income from gross unrealized gains in its investment portfolio. The Company is also able to rely on the use of various tax planning strategies to forecast taxable gains in the foreseeable future. In determining whether the deferred tax asset is realizable, the Company weighed all available evidence, both positive and negative. We considered all sources of taxable income available to realize the asset, including the future reversal of existing temporary differences, future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carry forwards, taxable income in carry back years and tax planning strategies. We have identified certain prudent and feasible strategies which could generate taxable future capital gain income. Tax planning strategies are actions that management ordinarily might not take, but would take, if necessary, to realize a tax benefit for a carryforward before it expires. Examples include, but are not limited to, changing the character of taxable or deductible amounts from ordinary income or loss to capital gain or loss or accelerating taxable amounts. While no commitments to implement any strategy have been made, these strategies have been considered in the analysis of the recoverability of the Companys deferred tax assets and the reduction of the valuation allowance. 48 Table of Contents The gross deferred tax asset related to net operating loss carryforwards on international subsidiaries is $52,897. Management believes that it is more likely than not that some of this asset will not be realized in the foreseeable future. Therefore, a cumulative valuation allowance of $9,971 has been recorded as of December 31, 2010. The Company is dependent on income of the same character in the same jurisdiction to support the deferred tax assets related to net operating loss carryforwards of international subsidiaries. As of December 31, 2010, the Company had a cumulative valuation allowance of $90,738 against deferred tax assets, as it is managements assessment that it is more likely than not that this amount of deferred tax assets will not be realized. The Company believes it is more likely than not that the remainder of its deferred tax assets will be realized in the foreseeable future. Accordingly, other than noted herein for capital loss carryovers and international subsidiaries, a valuation allowance has not been established. Future reversal of the valuation allowance will be recognized either when the benefit is realized or when we determine that it is more likely than not that the benefit will be realized. Depending on the nature of the taxable income that results in a reversal of the valuation allowance, and on managements judgment, the reversal will be recognized either through other comprehensive income (loss) or through continuing operations in the statement of operations. Likewise, if the Company determines that it is not more likely than not that it would be able to realize all or part of the deferred tax asset in the future, an adjustment to the deferred tax asset valuation allowance would be recorded through a charge to continuing operations in the statement of operations in the period such determination is made. In determining the appropriate valuation allowance, management makes judgments about recoverability of deferred tax assets, use of tax loss and tax credit carryforwards, levels of expected future taxable income and available tax planning strategies. The assumptions used in making these judgments are updated periodically by management based on current business conditions that affect the Company and overall economic conditions. These management judgments are therefore subject to change based on factors that include, but are not limited to, changes in expected capital gain income in the foreseeable future and the ability of the Company to successfully execute its tax planning strategies. Please see Item 1A Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Company Unanticipated changes in tax provisions or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could materially and adversely affect our results for more information. Valuation and Recoverability of Goodwill Goodwill represented $619,779 and $926,398 of our $26,397,018 and $25,860,667 of total assets as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We review our goodwill annually in the fourth quarter for impairment, or more frequently if indicators of impairment exist. Such indicators include, but are not limited to, a sustained significant decline in our market capitalization or a significant decline in our expected future cash flows due to changes in company specific factors or the broader business climate. The evaluation of such factors requires considerable judgment. Any adverse change in these factors could have a significant impact on the recoverability of goodwill and could have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. We have concluded that our reporting units for goodwill testing are equivalent to our reported operating segments, excluding the Corporate and Other segment. Therefore, we test goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level. 49 Table of Contents The following table illustrates the amount of goodwill carried to each reporting unit: December 31, 2010 2009 Assurant Solutions $ 379,935 $ 380,291 Assurant Specialty Property 239,844 239,726 Assurant Health 204,303 Assurant Employee Benefits 102,078 Total $ 619,779 $ 926,398 For each reporting unit, we first compare its estimated fair value with its net book value. If the estimated fair value exceeds its net book value, goodwill is deemed not to be impaired, and no further testing is necessary. If the net book value exceeds its estimated fair value, we then perform a second test to calculate the amount of impairment, if any. To determine the amount of any impairment, we determine the implied fair value of goodwill in the same manner as if the reporting unit were being acquired in a business combination. Specifically, we determine the fair value of all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, including any unrecognized intangible assets, in a hypothetical calculation that yields the implied fair value of goodwill. If the implied fair value of goodwill is less than the recorded goodwill, we record an impairment charge for the difference. The following describes the valuation methodologies used in both 2010 and 2009 to derive the estimated fair value of the reporting units. For each reporting unit we identified a group of peer companies, which have operations that are as similar as possible to the reporting unit. Certain of our reporting units have a very limited number of peer companies. A Guideline Company Method is used to value the reporting unit based upon its relative performance to its peer companies, based on several measures, including price to trailing 12 month earnings, price to projected earnings, price to tangible net worth and return on equity. A Dividend Discount Method (DDM) is used to value each reporting unit based upon the present value of expected cash flows available for distribution over future periods. Cash flows were discounted using a market participant weighted average cost of capital estimated for a reporting unit. After discounting the future discrete earnings to their present value, the Company estimated the terminal value attributable to the years beyond the discrete operating plan period. The discounted terminal value was then added to the aggregate discounted distributable earnings from the discrete operating plan period to estimate the fair value of the reporting unit. A Guideline Transaction Method values the reporting unit based on available data concerning the purchase prices paid in acquisitions of companies operating in the insurance industry. The application of certain financial multiples calculated from these transactions provides an indication of estimated fair value of the reporting units. While all three valuation methodologies were considered in assessing fair value, the DDM was weighed more heavily since in the current economic environment, management believes that expected cash flows are the most important factor in the valuation of a business enterprise. In addition, recent dislocations in the economy, the scarcity of M&A transactions in the insurance marketplace and the relative lack of directly comparable companies particularly for Assurant Solutions, make the other methods less credible. Following the 2010 goodwill assessment, the Company concluded that the net book values of the Assurant Employee Benefits and Assurant Health reporting units exceeded their estimated fair values. Based on the results of the Step 2 test, the Company recorded impairment charges of $102,078 and $204,303 related to the Assurant Employee Benefits and Assurant Health reporting units, respectively, representing their entire goodwill asset balances. During 2009, the Company concluded that the net book value of the Assurant Employee Benefits reporting unit exceeded its estimated fair value and recorded an $83,000 impairment charge after performing a Step 2 test. The 2010 impairments at Assurant Employee Benefits and Assurant Health reflect the effects of the 50 Table of Contents Affordable Care Act, the low interest rate environment, continuing high unemployment, the slow pace of the economic recovery and increased net book value primarily related to their investment portfolios. The 2009 impairment at Assurant Employee Benefits reflected the challenging near term growth environment for the business and an increased net book value, primarily related to their investment portfolio. Management remains confident in the long term prospects of both the Assurant Employee Benefits and Assurant Health reporting units. See Note 6 and 11 for further information. The two reporting units that passed the 2010 Step 1 test, Assurant Solutions and Assurant Specialty Property, had estimated fair values that exceeded their net book values by 1.9% and 62.9%, respectively. Assurant Solutions passed the 2010 Step 1 test, by a slim margin mainly due to a significant increase in its net book value. The low interest rate environment in 2010 resulted in a significant increase in net unrealized gains in Assurant Solutions fixed income investments. The determination of fair value of our reporting units requires significant estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions primarily include, but are not limited to, earnings and required capital projections discussed above, discount rates, terminal growth rates, operating income and dividend forecasts for each reporting unit and the weighting assigned to the results of each of the three valuation methods described above. Changes in certain assumptions could have a significant impact on the goodwill impairment assessment. For example, an increase of the discount rate of 100 basis points, with all other assumptions held constant, for Assurant Solutions, would result in its estimated fair value being less than its net book value as of December 31, 2010. Likewise, a reduction of 100 basis points in the terminal growth rate, with all other assumptions held constant, for Assurant Solutions would result in its estimated fair value being less than its net book value as of December 31, 2010. It would take more significant movements in our estimates and assumptions in order for Assurant Specialty Propertys estimated fair value to be less than its net book value. We evaluated the significant assumptions used to determine the estimated fair values of each reporting unit, both individually and in the aggregate, and concluded they are reasonable. However, should weak market conditions continue for an extended period or should the operating results of any of our reporting units decline substantially compared to projected results, or interest rates decline further increasing the net unrealized gain position related to the reporting units investment portfolio and thus the reporting units net book values, we could determine that we need to record an impairment charge related to goodwill in our Assurant Solutions or Assurant Specialty Property reporting units. Recent Accounting Pronouncements Adopted On January 1, 2010, the Company adopted the new guidance on transfers of financial assets. This new guidance amends the derecognition guidance and eliminates the exemption from consolidation for qualifying special purpose entities. The adoption of this new guidance did not have an impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. On January 1, 2010, the Company adopted the new guidance on the accounting for a variable interest entity (VIE). This new guidance amends the consolidation guidance applicable to VIEs to require a qualitative assessment in the determination of the primary beneficiary of the VIE, to require an ongoing reconsideration of the primary beneficiary, to amend the events that trigger a reassessment of whether an entity is a VIE and to change the consideration of kick out rights in determining if an entity is a VIE. The adoption of this new guidance did not have an impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. On July 1, 2009, the Company adopted the new guidance that establishes a single source of authoritative accounting and reporting guidance recognized by the FASB for nongovernmental entities (the Codification). The Codification does not change current GAAP, but is intended to simplify user access to all authoritative GAAP by providing all the authoritative literature related to a particular topic in one place. All existing accounting standard documents will be superseded and all other accounting literature not included in the 51 Table of Contents Codification will be considered non authoritative. The adoption of the new guidance did not have an impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. References to accounting guidance contained in the Companys consolidated financial statements and disclosures have been updated to reflect terminology consistent with the Codification. Plain English references to the accounting guidance have been made along with references to the ASC topic number and name. On December 31, 2009, the Company adopted the new guidance on postretirement benefit plan assets. This new guidance requires companies to make additional disclosures about plan assets for defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit plans. The additional disclosure requirements include how investment allocation decisions are made, the major categories of plan assets and the inputs and valuation techniques used to measure the fair value of plan assets. The adoption of this new guidance did not have an impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. See Note 22 for further information. On October 1, 2009, the Company adopted the new guidance on measuring the fair value of liabilities. When the quoted price in an active market for an identical liability is not available, this new guidance requires that either the quoted price of the identical or similar liability when traded as an asset or another valuation technique that is consistent with the fair value measurements and disclosures guidance be used to fair value the liability. The adoption of this new guidance did not have an impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. On April 1, 2009, the Company adopted the new OTTI guidance. This new guidance amends the previous guidance for debt securities and modifies the presentation and disclosure requirements for debt and equity securities. In addition, it amends the requirement for an entity to positively assert the intent and ability to hold a debt security to recovery to determine whether an OTTI exists and replaces this provision with the assertion that an entity does not intend to sell or it is not more likely than not that the entity will be required to sell a security prior to recovery of its amortized cost basis. Additionally, this new guidance modifies the presentation of certain OTTI debt securities to only present the impairment loss within the results of operations that represents the credit loss associated with the OTTI with the remaining impairment loss being presented within other comprehensive income (loss) (OCI). At adoption, the Company recorded a cumulative effect adjustment to reclassify the non credit component of previously recognized OTTI securities which resulted in an increase of $43,117 (after tax) in retained earnings and a decrease of $43,117 (after tax) in AOCI. See Note 5 for further information. On April 1, 2009, the Company adopted the new guidance on determining fair value in illiquid markets. This new guidance clarifies how to estimate fair value when the volume and level of activity for an asset or liability have significantly decreased. This new guidance also clarifies how to identify circumstances indicating that a transaction is not orderly. Under this new guidance, significant decreases in the volume and level of activity of an asset or liability, in relation to normal market activity, requires further evaluation of transactions or quoted prices and exercise of significant judgment in arriving at fair values. This new guidance also requires additional interim and annual disclosures. The adoption of this new guidance did not have an impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. On April 1, 2009, the Company adopted the new fair value of financial instruments guidance. This new guidance requires disclosures about the fair value of financial instruments already required in annual financial statements to be included within interim financial statements. This new guidance also requires disclosure of the methods and assumptions used to estimate fair value. The adoption of this new guidance did not have an impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. See Note 6 for further information. On January 1, 2009, the Company adopted the revised business combinations guidance. The revised guidance retains the fundamental requirements of the previous guidance in that the acquisition method of accounting be used for all business combinations, that an acquirer be identified for each business combination and for goodwill to be recognized and measured as a residual. The revised guidance expands the definition of transactions and events that qualify as business combinations to all transactions and other events in which one entity obtains control over one or more other businesses. The revised guidance broadens the fair value 52 Table of Contents measurement and recognition of assets acquired, liabilities assumed and interests transferred as a result of business combinations. It also increases the disclosure requirements for business combinations in the consolidated financial statements. The adoption of the revised guidance did not have an impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. However, should the Company enter into a business combination in 2010 or beyond, our financial position or results of operations could incur a significantly different impact than had it recorded the acquisition under the previous business combinations guidance. Earnings volatility could result, depending on the terms of the acquisition. On January 1, 2009, the Company adopted the new consolidations guidance. The new guidance requires that a noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary be separately reported within equity and the amount of consolidated net income attributable to the noncontrolling interest be presented in the statement of operations. The new guidance also calls for consistency in reporting changes in the parents ownership interest in a subsidiary and necessitates fair value measurement of any noncontrolling equity investment retained in a deconsolidation. The adoption of the new guidance did not have an impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. On January 1, 2009, the Company applied the fair value measurements and disclosures guidance for all non financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a non recurring basis. The application of this guidance for those assets and liabilities did not have an impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. The Companys non financial assets measured at fair value on a non recurring basis include goodwill and intangible assets. In a business combination, the non financial assets and liabilities of the acquired company would be measured at fair value in accordance with the fair value measurements and disclosures guidance. The requirements of this guidance include using an exit price based on an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date assuming the highest and best use of the asset by market participants. To perform a market valuation, the Company is required to use a market, income or cost approach valuation technique(s). The Company performs its annual impairment analyses of goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets in the fourth quarter, or when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the assets may not be recoverable. If Step 1 of the impairment test indicates that the net book value of the reporting unit is greater than the estimated fair value, then Step 2 test is required. Step 2 requires that the Company measure the fair value of goodwill of the reporting unit. As mentioned above, the application of this guidance which was used to measure the fair value of goodwill in Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test did not have an impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. On January 1, 2009, the Company adopted the new earnings per share guidance on participating securities and the two class method. The new guidance requires unvested share based payment awards that have non forfeitable rights to dividend or dividend equivalents to be treated as participating securities. Therefore, the Companys restricted stock and restricted stock units which have non forfeitable rights to dividends are included in calculating basic and diluted earnings per share under the two class method. All prior period earnings per share data presented have been adjusted retrospectively. The adoption of the new guidance did not have a material impact on the Companys basic and diluted earnings per share calculations for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. See Note 24 for further information. On January 1, 2008, the Company adopted the fair value measurements and disclosures guidance. This guidance defined fair value, addressed how companies should measure fair value when they are required to use a fair value measure for recognition or disclosure purposes under GAAP and expanded disclosures about fair value measurements. This guidance was applied prospectively for financial assets and liabilities measured on a recurring basis as of January 1, 2008 except for certain financial assets that were measured at fair value using a transaction price. For these financial instruments, which the Company has, this guidance required limited retrospective adoption and thus the difference between the fair values using a transaction price and the fair values using an exit price of the relevant financial instruments was shown as a cumulative effect adjustment to the January 1, 2008 retained earnings balance. At adoption, the Company recognized a $4,400 decrease to other assets, and a corresponding decrease of $2,860 (after tax) to retained earnings. See Notes 5 and 6 for further information regarding these financial instruments and the fair value disclosures, respectively. 53 Table of Contents Recent Accounting Pronouncements Not Yet Adopted In October 2010, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued amendments to existing guidance on accounting for costs associated with acquiring or renewing insurance contracts. The amendments modify the definition of the types of costs incurred by insurance entities that can be capitalized in the acquisition of new and renewal contracts. Under this amended guidance, acquisition costs are defined as costs that are related directly to the successful acquisition of new or renewal insurance contracts. The amendments are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2011. Therefore, the Company is required to adopt this guidance on January 1, 2012. Prospective application as of the date of adoption is required; however retrospective application to all prior periods presented upon the date of adoption is also permitted, but not required. Early adoption is permitted, but only at the beginning of an entitys annual reporting period. The Company is currently evaluating the requirements of the amendments and the potential impact, if any, on the Companys financial position and results of operations. In September 2009, the FASB issued new guidance on multiple deliverable revenue arrangements. This new guidance requires entities to use their best estimate of the selling price of a deliverable within a multiple deliverable revenue arrangement if the entity and other entities do not sell the deliverable separate from the other deliverables within the arrangement. In addition it requires both qualitative and quantitative disclosures. This new guidance is effective for new or materially modified arrangements in fiscal years beginning on or after June 15, 2010. Earlier application is permitted as of the beginning of a fiscal year. The Company did not apply the guidance early, thus it is required to adopt this new guidance on January 1, 2011. The adoption of this new guidance will not have an impact on the Companys financial position or results of operations. Results of Operations Assurant Consolidated Overview The table below presents information regarding our consolidated results of operations: For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Revenues: Net earned premiums and other considerations $ 7,403,039 $ 7,550,335 $ 7,925,348 Net investment income 703,190 698,838 774,347 Net realized gains (losses) on investments 48,403 (53,597 ) (428,679 ) Amortization of deferred gains on disposal of businesses 10,406 22,461 29,412 Fees and other income 362,684 482,464 300,800 Total revenues 8,527,722 8,700,501 8,601,228 Benefits, losses and expenses: Policyholder benefits 3,640,978 3,867,982 4,019,147 Selling, underwriting and general expenses (1) 3,913,273 3,979,244 3,957,850 Interest expense 60,646 60,669 60,953 Total benefits, losses and expenses 7,614,897 7,907,895 8,037,950 Segment income before provision for income taxes and goodwill impairment 912,825 792,606 563,278 Provision for income taxes 327,267 279,032 115,482 Segment income before goodwill impairment 585,558 513,574 447,796 Goodwill impairment 306,381 83,000 Net income $ 279,177 $ 430,574 $ 447,796 (1) Includes amortization of DAC and VOBA and underwriting, general and administrative expenses. 54 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2009 Net income decreased $151,397, or 35%, to $279,177 for Twelve Months 2010 from $430,574 for Twelve Months 2009. Twelve Months 2010 includes $107,075 (after tax) of improved segment results and $66,300 (after tax) of increased realized gains on investments, compared with Twelve Months 2009. However, results decreased primarily due to a non cash goodwill impairment charge of $306,381 in Twelve Months 2010 compared with an $83,000 non cash goodwill impairment charge in Twelve Months 2009. In addition, Twelve Months 2009 includes an $83,542 (after tax) favorable legal settlement. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2008 Net income decreased $17,222, or 4%, to $430,574 for Twelve Months 2009 from $447,796 for Twelve Months 2008. The decrease was primarily due to a $(30,220) net loss for Assurant Health for Twelve Months 2009 compared with net income of $120,254 for Twelve Months 2008. In addition, Twelve Months 2009 includes a non cash goodwill impairment charge of $83,000. These negative items were partially offset by lower net realized losses on investments of $243,803 (after tax) as Twelve Months 2009 includes $34,838 (after tax) compared with $278,641 (after tax) in Twelve Months 2008. 55 Table of Contents Assurant Solutions Overview The table below presents information regarding Assurant Solutions segment results of operations: For the Years EndedDecember 31, 2010 2009 2008 Revenues: Net earned premiums and other considerations $ 2,484,299 $ 2,671,041 $ 2,813,407 Net investment income 397,297 391,229 420,615 Fees and other income 228,052 216,550 182,508 Total revenues 3,109,648 3,278,820 3,416,530 Benefits, losses and expenses: Policyholder benefits 889,387 1,029,151 1,198,758 Selling, underwriting and general expenses (5) 2,052,628 2,055,348 2,041,892 Total benefits, losses and expenses 2,942,015 3,084,499 3,240,650 Segment income before provision for income taxes 167,633 194,321 175,880 Provision for income taxes 64,427 74,269 63,697 Segment net income $ 103,206 $ 120,052 $ 112,183 Net earned premiums and other considerations: Domestic: Credit $ 189,357 $ 241,293 $ 279,497 Service contracts 1,291,725 1,411,953 1,364,886 Other (1) 49,017 84,939 60,159 Total Domestic 1,530,099 1,738,185 1,704,542 International: Credit 346,475 320,462 368,442 Service contracts 459,166 415,694 355,248 Other (1) 18,001 15,731 20,175 Total International 823,642 751,887 743,865 Preneed (4) 130,558 180,969 365,000 Total $ 2,484,299 $ 2,671,041 $ 2,813,407 Fees and other income: Domestic: Debt protection $ 33,049 $ 40,058 $ 34,459 Service contracts 110,386 102,410 79,298 Other (1) 8,839 18,534 26,661 Total Domestic 152,274 161,002 140,418 International 28,930 27,730 32,919 Preneed (4) 46,848 27,818 9,171 Total $ 228,052 $ 216,550 $ 182,508 Gross written premiums (2): Domestic: Credit $ 422,825 $ 526,532 $ 604,101 Service contracts 1,193,423 1,012,670 1,530,284 Other (1) 65,732 92,111 71,393 Total Domestic 1,681,980 1,631,313 2,205,778 International: Credit 968,878 843,225 827,457 Service contracts 523,382 462,964 477,652 Other (1) 22,407 26,567 27,381 Total International 1,514,667 1,332,756 1,332,490 Total $ 3,196,647 $ 2,964,069 $ 3,538,268 Preneed (face sales) $ 734,884 $ 512,366 $ 445,313 Combined ratio (3): Domestic 100.5 % 97.2 % 100.6 % International 105.9 % 110.7 % 108.2 % 56 Table of Contents (1) This includes emerging products and run off products lines. (2) Gross written premiums does not necessarily translate to an equal amount of subsequent net earned premiums since Assurant Solutions reinsures a portion of its premiums to insurance subsidiaries of its clients. (3) The combined ratio is equal to total benefits, losses and expenses divided by net earned premiums and other considerations and fees and other income excluding the preneed business. (4) Effective January 1, 2009, new preneed life insurance policies in which death benefit adjustments are determined at the discretion of the Company are accounted for as universal life contracts. For contracts sold prior to January 1, 2009, these preneed life insurance policies were accounted for and will continue to be accounted for under the limited pay insurance guidance. In accordance with the universal life insurance guidance, income earned on new preneed life insurance policies is presented within policy fee income net of policyholder benefits. Under the limited pay insurance guidance, the consideration received on preneed policies is presented separately as net earned premiums, with policyholder benefits expense being shown separately. The change from reporting certain preneed life insurance policies in accordance with the universal life insurance guidance versus the limited pay insurance guidance is not material to the statement of operations or balance sheet. (5) 2010 selling, underwriting and general expenses includes a $47,612 intangible asset impairment charge. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2009 Net Income Segment net income decreased $16,846, or 14%, to $103,206 for Twelve Months 2010 from $120,052 for Twelve Months 2009 primarily due to an intangible asset impairment charge of $30,948 (after tax) related to a fourth quarter 2010 client notification of non renewal of a block of domestic service contract business effective June 1, 2011. Absent this item, net income increased $14,102, or 12%, as a result of improved underwriting results in our international and preneed businesses. International results improved primarily due to favorable loss experience in our U.K. credit insurance business and growth in Latin America. These items were partially offset by decreased underwriting results primarily attributable to the run off of certain lines of business, and a $6,048 (after tax) change in the value of our consumer price index caps (derivative instruments that protect against inflation risk in our preneed products). Additionally, Twelve Months 2009 net income included a $10,800 (after tax) restructuring charge. Total Revenues Total revenues decreased $169,172, or 5%, to $3,109,648 for Twelve Months 2010 from $3,278,820 for Twelve Months 2009. The decrease was the result of lower net earned premiums of $186,742, which was primarily attributable to the continued run off of: certain domestic extended service contract business as earnings from former clients that are no longer in business; preneed policies sold before January 1, 2009; and domestic credit insurance business. Partially offsetting these decreases was the addition of new domestic service contract business clients and growth in both our international credit and service contracts businesses, which also benefited from the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates. We expect net earned premiums in 2011 to decline $170,000 due to the run off of domestic credit insurance business and former large extended services contract clients that are no longer in business. Fees and other income improved as a result of increases in preneed business, partially offset by mark to market losses associated with our consumer price index caps. Net investment income primarily increased due to the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Gross written premiums increased $232,578, or 8%, to $3,196,647 for Twelve Months 2010 from $2,964,069 for Twelve Months 2009. Gross written premiums from our domestic service contract business increased $180,753 due to the addition of new clients and an increase in automobile vehicle service contracts as automobile sales increased and from premiums reported by certain clients in a timelier manner than in the past. This had no effect on net earned premiums. In addition, consistent with our international expansion strategy, our 57 Table of Contents international credit business increased $125,653 due to growth across several countries from both new and existing clients and from the favorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Gross written premiums from our international service contract business increased $60,418, primarily due to favorable foreign exchange rates and growth from existing clients, partially offset by lower premiums in Denmark due to our decision to exit that market in 2009. Gross written premiums from our domestic credit insurance business decreased $103,707, due to the continued runoff of this product line. Other domestic gross written premiums decreased $26,379 mainly due to a one time campaign with Ford Motor Company conducted and completed in Second Quarter 2009. Preneed face sales increased $222,518 primarily due to increased consumer buying in advance of a less favorable tax rate change in certain Canadian provinces, as well as growth from our exclusive distribution partnership with Services Corporation International (SCI) the largest funeral provider in North America, and increased sales initiatives. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses decreased $142,484, or 5%, to $2,942,015 for Twelve Months 2010 from $3,084,499 for Twelve Months 2009. Policyholder benefits decreased $139,764 primarily due to improved loss experience in our U.K. credit business and in our domestic service contract business from existing and run off clients, the run off of preneed policies sold before January 1, 2009, and the continued run off of our domestic credit business. Selling, underwriting and general expenses decreased $2,720. Commissions, taxes, licenses and fees, of which amortization of DAC is a component, decreased $42,585 as commission expense related to our domestic service contract business declined due to lower net earned premiums, partially offset by increased commission expense in our international business due to higher net earned premiums in that business coupled with the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates. General expenses increased $39,865 primarily due to the above mentioned $47,612 (pre tax) intangible asset impairment charge, the amortization of previously capitalized upfront client commission payments, as we continue to grow our international business and distribution channels, and the unfavorable impact of foreign exchange rates. Partially offsetting these increases was cost savings realized in Twelve Months 2010 as a result of a restructuring in Twelve Months 2009. This restructuring added $16,500 to expenses in Twelve Months 2009. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2008 Net Income Segment net income increased $7,869, or 7%, to $120,052 for Twelve Months 2009 from $112,183 for Twelve Months 2008. The increase was primarily the result of favorable underwriting results in our domestic service contract business from existing and run off clients. Partially offsetting this increase was unfavorable loss experience in our U.K. credit insurance business primarily resulting from higher unemployment rates in the U.K. compared with the prior year, a $19,101 (after tax) decrease in net investment income and $10,800 (after tax) of restructuring charges in our domestic and international businesses. Twelve Months 2008 included charges of $24,700 (after tax) related to our exit from the Denmark market, client bankruptcies, and a loss on a discontinued product in Brazil which were partially offset by $9,900 (after tax) of income from client related settlements. Total Revenues Total revenues decreased $137,710, or 4%, to $3,278,820 for Twelve Months 2009 from $3,416,530 for Twelve Months 2008. The decrease is mainly attributable to reduced net earned premiums and other considerations of $142,366, primarily resulting from the application of universal life insurance accounting guidance, in our Preneed business. Absent this item, net earned premiums increased $35,000, or 1%, due to our domestic and international service contract business from premiums written in prior periods and from a one time campaign with Ford Motor Company conducted and completed in Second Quarter 2009. This increase was 58 Table of Contents partially offset by unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates as the U.S. dollar strengthened against international currencies, combined with the continued runoff of our domestic credit insurance business. Also contributing to the decrease in revenues was lower net investment income of $29,386, or 7%, primarily due to lower average invested assets and lower investment yields. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in fees and other income of $34,042, or 19%, primarily from the application of the universal life insurance accounting guidance for our Preneed business and the continued growth of our service contract businesses resulting from acquisitions made in the latter part of 2008. Gross written premiums decreased $574,199, or 16%, to $2,964,069 for Twelve Months 2009 from $3,538,268 for Twelve Months 2008. This decrease was driven primarily by lower domestic service contract business of $517,614, primarily due to a client bankruptcy and decreased retail and auto sales due to the slowdown in consumer spending. Gross written premiums from our domestic credit insurance business decreased $77,569, due to the continued runoff of this product line. Gross written premiums from our international service contract business decreased $14,688, primarily the result of unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates. This was partially offset by growth from both new and existing clients, consistent with our international expansion strategy. Gross written premiums from our international credit business increased $15,768 primarily driven by growth in several countries due to strong growth from new and existing clients. This was partially offset by unfavorable changes in foreign exchange rates and the slowdown in the U.K. mortgage market. Preneed face sales were $67,053 higher due to growth from our exclusive distribution partnership with SCI and increased sales initiatives. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses decreased $156,151, or 5%, to $3,084,499 for Twelve Months 2009 from $3,240,650 for Twelve Months 2008. Policyholder benefits decreased $169,607, primarily due to the above mentioned application of universal life insurance accounting guidance, in our Preneed business. Also contributing to the decrease were lower losses from a discontinued credit life product in Brazil and improved loss experience in our domestic service contract business from existing and run off clients. This was partially offset by unfavorable loss experience in our U.K. credit insurance business primarily resulting from higher unemployment rates than the prior year. During the Twelve Months 2009, we ceased distributing unemployment insurance related products through the internet but losses from similar products sold through more traditional distribution channels increased as a result of the prolonged high unemployment in the U.K. Selling, underwriting and general expenses increased $13,456. General expenses increased $82,616, primarily due to higher expenses associated with recent domestic extended service contract business acquisitions and restructuring charges relating to our international businesses of $10,600 and $5,900 for our domestic businesses. Commissions, taxes, licenses and fees, of which amortization of DAC is a component, decreased $69,160, primarily due to the corresponding favorable change in foreign exchange rates in our international business and reduced commission expense resulting from acquisitions completed in the latter part of 2008. Also contributing to the decrease was the above mentioned application of universal life insurance accounting guidance in our Preneed business. These declines in Twelve Months 2009 were partially offset by an $18,000 reduction in commission expense related to the accrual of contractual receivables established from certain domestic service contract clients recorded in Twelve Months 2008. 59 Table of Contents Assurant Specialty Property Overview The table below presents information regarding Assurant Specialty Propertys segment results of operations: For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Revenues: Net earned premiums and other considerations $ 1,953,223 $ 1,947,529 $ 2,048,238 Net investment income 107,092 110,337 123,043 Fees and other income 69,147 56,890 50,000 Total revenues 2,129,462 2,114,756 2,221,281 Benefits, losses and expenses: Policyholder benefits 684,652 664,182 785,403 Selling, underwriting and general expenses 797,996 832,528 817,848 Total benefits, losses and expenses 1,482,648 1,496,710 1,603,251 Segment income before provision for income tax 646,814 618,046 618,030 Provision for income taxes 222,527 212,049 212,827 Segment net income $ 424,287 $ 405,997 $ 405,203 Net earned premiums and other considerations by major product groupings: Homeowners (lender placed and voluntary) $ 1,342,791 $ 1,369,031 $ 1,471,012 Manufactured housing (lender placed and voluntary) 220,309 219,960 225,209 Other (1) 390,123 358,538 352,017 Total $ 1,953,223 $ 1,947,529 $ 2,048,238 Ratios: Loss ratio (2) 35.1 % 34.1 % 38.3 % Expense ratio (3) 39.5 % 41.5 % 39.0 % Combined ratio (4) 73.3 % 74.7 % 76.4 % (1) Primarily includes lender placed flood, miscellaneous specialty property and renters insurance products. (2) The loss ratio is equal to policyholder benefits divided by net earned premiums and other considerations. (3) The expense ratio is equal to selling, underwriting and general expenses divided by net earned premiums and other considerations and fees and other income. (4) The combined ratio is equal to total benefits, losses and expenses divided by net earned premiums and other considerations and fees and other income. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2009 Net Income Segment net income increased $18,290, or 5%, to $424,287 for Twelve Months 2010 from $405,997 for Twelve Months 2009. The improvement is primarily due to an improved expense ratio as a result of lower commission expense due to increases in client ceded premiums and operational improvements. Results for Twelve Months 2010 include $14,797 (after tax) of reportable catastrophe losses, including losses from Arizona wind and hailstorms in fourth quarter 2010 and Tennessee storms during second quarter 2010. There were no reportable catastrophes during Twelve Months 2009. 60 Table of Contents Total Revenues Total revenues increased $14,706, or 1%, to $2,129,462 for Twelve Months 2010 from $2,114,756 for Twelve Months 2009. Growth in lender placed homeowners, lender placed flood and renters insurance products gross earned premiums and increased fee income were partially offset by increased ceded lender placed homeowners premiums and lower real estate owned premiums. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses decreased $14,062, or 1%, to $1,482,648 for Twelve Months 2010 from $1,496,710 for Twelve Months 2009. The decrease was primarily due to lower selling, underwriting, and general expenses of $34,532 compared with Twelve Months 2009, partially offset by increased policyholder benefits of $20,470. The overall loss ratio increased 100 basis points primarily due to $22,764 of reportable catastrophes in Twelve Months 2010 and the non recurrence of a $9,023 subrogation reimbursement in Twelve Months 2009. These items are partially offset by lower small scale weather related losses. Commissions, taxes, licenses and fees decreased $37,676, primarily due to client contract changes that resulted in lower commission expenses and a release of a premium tax reserve. General expenses increased $3,144 primarily due to increased employee related expenses. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2008 Net Income Segment net income was relatively flat at $405,997 for Twelve Months 2009 compared to $405,203 for Twelve Months 2008. However, Twelve Months 2008 included $86,200 (after tax), net of reinsurance, of losses from hurricanes Gustav and Ike, $8,600 (after tax) in catastrophe reinsurance reinstatement premiums and $5,050 (after tax) in catastrophe losses from California wildfires. There were no reportable catastrophe losses in Twelve Months 2009, however, net earned premiums decreased $65,461 (after tax) compared with Twelve Months 2008 primarily related to reduced real estate owned insurance business and higher reinsurance costs. Total Revenues Total revenues decreased $106,525, or 5%, to $2,114,756 for Twelve Months 2009 from $2,221,281 for Twelve Months 2008. The decrease in revenues is primarily due to decreased net earned premiums of $100,709, or 5%. The decrease is primarily attributable to lower lender placed homeowners insurance net earned premiums due to decreased premiums from real estate owned property, several lost clients due to the financial industry consolidation and a $29,434 increase in catastrophe reinsurance costs. Increased placement rates in our non real estate owned lender placed business and increased average insured values partially offset these negative effects. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses decreased $106,541 or 7%, to $1,496,710 for Twelve Months 2009 from $1,603,251 for Twelve Months 2008. The decrease was due to lower policyholder benefits of $121,221 partially offset by higher selling, underwriting, and general expenses of $14,680. The decrease in policyholder benefits was due to a decrease in reportable catastrophe losses of $132,600, net of reinsurance, related to Hurricanes Ike and Gustav and $7,770 related to California wildfire losses in Twelve Months 2008. There were no reportable catastrophe losses in Twelve Months 2009. Commissions, taxes, licenses and fees decreased $32,022, primarily due to the decline in net earned premiums. General expenses increased $46,702 primarily due to additional services provided to our clients, such as loss drafts, along with investment in technology and infrastructure initiatives. In addition, Twelve Months 2009 included $3,800 in severance costs related to a reduction in force, including the closure of our California operations center. Twelve Months 2009 combined ratio was 74.7% compared with 76.4% for Twelve Months 2008. 61 Table of Contents Assurant Health Overview The table below presents information regarding Assurant Healths segment results of operations: For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Revenues: Net earned premiums and other considerations $ 1,864,122 $ 1,879,628 $ 1,951,955 Net investment income 48,540 47,658 57,464 Fees and other income 40,133 39,879 38,917 Total revenues 1,952,795 1,967,165 2,048,336 Benefits, losses and expenses: Policyholder benefits 1,302,928 1,410,171 1,258,188 Selling, underwriting and general expenses 565,060 604,698 604,605 Total benefits, losses and expenses 1,867,988 2,014,869 1,862,793 Segment income (loss) before provision for income tax 84,807 (47,704 ) 185,543 Provision (benefit) for income taxes 30,778 (17,484 ) 65,289 Segment net income (loss) $ 54,029 $ (30,220 ) $ 120,254 Net earned premiums and other considerations: Individual Markets: Individual medical $ 1,289,181 $ 1,270,198 $ 1,276,743 Short term medical 85,824 104,238 101,435 Subtotal 1,375,005 1,374,436 1,378,178 Small employer group: 489,117 505,192 573,777 Total $ 1,864,122 $ 1,879,628 $ 1,951,955 Membership by product line: Individual Markets: Individual medical 557 568 578 Short term medical 60 78 92 Subtotal 617 646 670 Small employer group: 144 121 131 Total 761 767 801 Ratios: Loss ratio (1) 69.9 % 75.0 % 64.5 % Expense ratio (2) 29.7 % 31.5 % 30.4 % Combined ratio (3) 98.1 % 105.0 % 93.6 % (1) The loss ratio is equal to policyholder benefits divided by net earned premiums and other considerations. (2) The expense ratio is equal to selling, underwriting and general expenses divided by net earned premiums and other considerations and fees and other income. (3) The combined ratio is equal to total benefits, losses and expenses divided by net earned premiums and other considerations and fees and other income. The Affordable Care Act In March 2010, President Obama signed the Affordable Care Act. Provisions of the Affordable Care Act have and will become effective at various dates over the next several years. During Second Quarter 2010, 62 Table of Contents management completed an extensive review of the Assurant Health segment and considered a number of possible future strategies. On the basis of this review, management believes that opportunities continue to exist in the individual medical marketplace and initiated various modifications necessary to operate in the new environment. In November 2010, HHS issued interim final regulations with respect to the Affordable Care Act, with a comment period continuing into first quarter 2011. As a result, the impact of the Affordable Care Act is clearer but not yet fully known. Management continues to modify its business model to adapt to these new regulations and will continue to monitor HHS and state regulatory activity for clarification and additional regulations. Given the sweeping nature of the changes represented by the Affordable Care Act, our results of operations and financial position could be materially adversely affected. For more information, see Item 1, Risk Factors Risk related to our industry Recently enacted legislation reforming the U.S. health care system may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2009 Net Income/(Loss) Segment results increased $84,249, to net income of $54,029 for Twelve Months 2010 from a net loss of $(30,220) for Twelve Months 2009. The increase is primarily attributable to corrective pricing actions and plan design changes that began in late 2009. Twelve Months 2010 includes a $17,421 (after tax) benefit from a reserve release related to a legal settlement, while Twelve Months 2009 included charges of $32,370 (after tax) relating to unfavorable rulings in two claim related lawsuits, a restructuring charge of $2,925 (after tax) and H1NI related medical charges of $2,535 (after tax). Twelve Months 2010 results were also affected by favorable claim reserve development and reduced expenses associated with expense management initiatives, partially offset by restructuring charges of $8,721 (after tax). Total Revenues Total revenues decreased $14,370, or less than 1%, to $1,952,795 for Twelve Months 2010 from $1,967,165 for Twelve Months 2009. Net earned premiums and other considerations from our individual medical business increased $18,983, or 1%, primarily due to premium rate increases. The effect of the premium rate increases was partially offset by declining members that is resulting from a continued high level of policy lapses and lower sales. Net earned premiums and other considerations from our small employer group business decreased $16,075, or 3%, due to a continued high level of policy lapses, partially offset by premium rate increases. Short term medical net earned premiums and other considerations decreased $18,414, or 18%, due to a reduction in policies sold, partially offset by premium rate increases. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses decreased $146,881, or 7%, to $1,867,988 for Twelve Months 2010 from $2,014,869 for Twelve Months 2009. Policyholder benefits decreased $107,243, or 8%, and the benefit loss ratio decreased to 69.9% from 75.0%. The decrease was primarily due to a $26,802 benefit from a reserve release related to a legal settlement and favorable claim reserve development during Twelve Months 2010 compared to last year, partially offset by higher estimated claim experience in small employer group business. Twelve Months 2009 also includes charges of $49,800 relating to unfavorable rulings in two claim related lawsuits. Selling, underwriting and general expenses decreased $39,638, or 7%, primarily due to reduced employee related and advertising expenses, lower amortization of deferred acquisition costs, and reduced commission expense due to lower sales of new policies. Twelve Months 2010 includes restructuring charges of $13,417 that were the result of expense management initiatives to help transition the business for the post health care reform. Twelve Months 2009 also included a restructuring charge of $4,500. 63 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2008 Net (Loss)/Income Segment results decreased $150,474, or 125%, to a net loss of $(30,220) for Twelve Months 2009 from net income of $120,254 for Twelve Months 2008. The decrease is primarily attributable to deteriorating claims experience caused by higher medical benefits utilization in all products, $32,370 (after tax) of charges relating to reserve increases for outcomes in two unfavorable claim related lawsuits, H1N1 related medical services, unfavorable claim reserve development, the continuing decline in small employer group net earned premiums and increased expenses including $2,925 (after tax) of restructuring costs. Total Revenues Total revenues decreased $81,171, or 4%, to $1,967,165 for Twelve Months 2009 from $2,048,336 for Twelve Months 2008. Net earned premiums and other considerations from our individual medical business decreased $6,545, or less than 1%, while net earned premiums and other considerations from our small employer group business decreased $68,585, or 12%, both due to a continued high level of policy lapses which were partially offset by premium rate increases. The decline in small employer group business is also due to increased competition and our adherence to strict underwriting guidelines. Also, net investment income decreased $9,806 due to lower yields and lower average invested assets. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses increased $152,076, or 8%, to $2,014,869 for Twelve Months 2009 from $1,862,793 for Twelve Months 2008. Policyholder benefits increased $151,983, or 12%, and the loss ratio increased to 75.0% from 64.5%. The increase in the benefit loss ratio was primarily due to deteriorating claims experience and unfavorable claim reserve development on both individual medical business and small employer group business due to increased utilization and intensity of medical services, coupled with a non proportionate decline in net earned premiums and $49,800 of reserve increases stemming from two separate claim related lawsuits. In addition, policyholder benefits include $3,900 for H1N1 related medical services. Selling, underwriting and general expenses increased $93, or less than 1%. Higher expenses including $4,500 of restructuring costs, increased advertising expense of $8,155, and increased loss adjustment expense were partially offset by lower amortization of deferred acquisition costs. 64 Table of Contents Assurant Employee Benefits Overview The table below presents information regarding Assurant Employee Benefits segment results of operations: For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Revenues: Net earned premiums and other considerations $ 1,101,395 $ 1,052,137 $ 1,111,748 Net investment income 132,388 133,365 147,027 Fees and other income 25,152 28,343 26,139 Total revenues 1,258,935 1,213,845 1,284,914 Benefits, losses and expenses: Policyholder benefits 766,049 757,070 775,684 Selling, underwriting and general expenses 395,759 392,901 400,816 Total benefits, losses and expenses 1,161,808 1,149,971 1,176,500 Segment income before provision for income tax 97,127 63,874 108,414 Provision for income taxes 33,589 21,718 37,857 Segment net income $ 63,538 $ 42,156 $ 70,557 Net earned premiums and other considerations: By major product groupings: Group dental $ 420,690 $ 425,288 $ 435,115 Group disability single premiums for closed blocks (3) 11,447 All other group disability 488,813 434,381 459,208 Group life 191,892 192,468 205,978 Total $ 1,101,395 $ 1,052,137 $ 1,111,748 Ratios: Loss ratio (1) 69.6 % 72.0 % 69.8 % Expense ratio (2) 35.1 % 36.4 % 35.2 % (1) The loss ratio is equal to policyholder benefits divided by net earned premiums and other considerations. (2) The expense ratio is equal to selling, underwriting and general expenses divided by net earned premiums and other considerations and fees and other income. (3) This represents single premium on closed blocks of group disability business. For closed blocks of business we receive a single, upfront premium and in turn we record a virtually equal amount of claim reserves. We then manage the claims using our claim management practices. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2009 Net Income Segment net income increased 51% to $63,538 for Twelve Months 2010 from $42,156 for Twelve Months 2009. The increase in net income was primarily attributable to favorable loss experience in all product lines. Favorable disability results and life mortality, as well as dental pricing actions, contributed to the improvement. Twelve Months 2010 includes restructuring charges of $4,349 (after tax) compared to restructuring charges of $2,445 (after tax) in Twelve Months 2009. Total Revenues Total revenues increased 4% to $1,258,935 for Twelve Months 2010 from $1,213,845 for Twelve Months 2009. Net earned premiums increased 5% or $49,258 mainly due to assumed premiums from two new clients in 65 Table of Contents our DRMS distribution channel and the acquisition of a block of business from Shenandoah Life Insurance Company, all added in Fourth Quarter 2009. This was partially offset by decreases in our direct products as a result of a challenging sales and persistency environment which continues to affect revenue growth. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses increased 1% to $1,161,808 for Twelve Months 2010 from $1,149,971 for Twelve Months 2009. The loss ratio decreased to 69.6% in Twelve Months 2010 from 72.0% in Twelve Months 2009 primarily due to higher net earned premiums and favorable loss experience across the disability, life, and dental products. Disability incidence and life mortality levels continue to be very favorable compared to prior year. The expense ratio decreased to 35.1% for Twelve Months 2010 from 36.4% for Twelve Months 2009 driven by higher net earned premiums and expense management initiatives partially offset by restructuring charges. Twelve Months 2010 includes $6,690 in restructuring charges compared to $3,760 in Twelve Months 2009. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2008 Net Income Segment net income decreased $28,401 or 40%, to $42,156 for Twelve Months 2009 from $70,557 for Twelve Months 2008. The decrease in net income was primarily driven by lower net earned premiums and less favorable life, dental and disability loss experience. In addition, net investment income was lower by $8,880 (after tax) due to decreased average invested assets and lower investment yields. In addition, net income includes a reserve release related to annual reserve adequacy studies of $2,102 (after tax) in Twelve Months 2009 compared with $3,485 (after tax) in Twelve Months 2008. Total Revenues Total revenues decreased 5% to $1,213,845 for Twelve Months 2009 from $1,284,914 for Twelve Months 2008. Twelve Months 2008 net earned premiums include $11,447 of single premiums on closed blocks of business. Excluding single premiums on closed blocks of business, net earned premiums decreased 4%, or $48,164, driven by decreases in all products. The overall decrease is due to increased lapses and fewer covered lives due to higher unemployment, along with a difficult sales environment which presents a challenge to revenue growth. Although we added two new clients in the fourth quarter of 2009, assumed premiums from our DRMS distribution channel decreased $7,626 or 5% for Twelve Months 2009 compared to the prior year, excluding single premiums from closed blocks of business. An additional $4,594 of assumed premiums in the fourth quarter of 2009 is attributable to the acquisition of a block of business from Shenandoah Life Insurance Company. Net investment income decreased 9% or $13,662 due to a decrease in average invested assets and lower investment yields. In addition, Twelve Months 2008 included $1,294 in real estate joint venture partnership income while Twelve Months 2009 includes a loss of $237 from real estate joint venture partnerships. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses decreased 2 % to $1,149,971 for Twelve Months 2009 from $1,176,500 for Twelve Months 2008. The loss ratio increased to 72.0% from 69.8%, primarily driven by less favorable experience across all products with the exception of assumed disability business through our Disability RMS distribution channel. Overall, disability recovery rates were less favorable for Twelve Months 2009 compared with the prior year, although incidence remained steady. Group life and dental experience were less favorable when compared with the prior year. Dental experience was impacted by higher utilization in Twelve Months 2009. Our annual reserve adequacy studies led to a release of $3,234, for Twelve Months 2009 resulting in a reduction to benefits and expenses compared with $5,362 in Twelve Months 2008. 66 Table of Contents Excluding the single premiums on closed blocks of business in the prior year, the expense ratio increased to 36.4% from 35.2% driven by lower net earned premiums as well as additional costs incurred with new client additions and $3,760 of restructuring costs in Twelve Months 2009. We continued to manage expenses and experienced a 2% or $7,915 decrease for Twelve Months 2009 in selling, underwriting and general expenses compared with Twelve Months 2008. Corporate and Other The table below presents information regarding the Corporate and Other segments results of operations: For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Revenues: Net investment income $ 17,873 $ 16,249 $ 26,198 Net realized gains (losses) on investments 48,403 (53,597 ) (428,679 ) Amortization of deferred gains on disposal of businesses 10,406 22,461 29,412 Fees and other income 200 140,802 3,236 Total revenues 76,882 125,915 (369,833 ) Benefits, losses and expenses: Policyholder benefits (2,038 ) 7,408 1,114 Selling, underwriting and general expenses 101,830 93,769 92,689 Interest expense 60,646 60,669 60,953 Total benefits, losses and expenses 160,438 161,846 154,756 Segment loss before benefit for income taxes (83,556 ) (35,931 ) (524,589 ) Benefit for income taxes (24,054 ) (11,520 ) (264,188 ) Segment net loss $ (59,502 ) $ (24,411 ) $ (260,401 ) Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2009 Net Loss Segment net loss increased $35,091 to $(59,502) for Twelve Months 2010 compared to a net loss of $(24,411) for Twelve Months 2009. This increase is mainly due to the non recurrence of an $83,542 (after tax) favorable legal settlement, net of attorney fees and allowances for related recoverables with Willis Limited in Twelve Months 2009. In addition, amortization of deferred gains on disposal of businesses declined $7,836 (after tax) as a portion of the deferred gain liability was re established during the fourth quarter of 2010 resulting from refinements to assumptions associated with policy run off. Partially offsetting these items is a $66,300 (after tax) increase in realized gains on investments. Total Revenues Total revenues decreased $49,033, to $76,882 for Twelve Months 2010 compared with $125,915 for Twelve Months 2009. This decrease is primarily due to the above mentioned favorable legal settlement of $139,000 with Willis Limited in Twelve Months 2009, partially offset by increased net realized gains on investments of $102,000. In addition, amortization of deferred gains on disposal of businesses declined $12,055 for reasons noted above. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total benefits, losses and expenses remained relatively flat at $160,438 for Twelve Months 2010 compared with $161,846 for Twelve Months 2009. 67 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to the Year Ended December 31, 2008 Net Loss Segment net loss improved $235,990 to $(24,411) for Twelve Months 2009 compared with $(260,401) for Twelve Months 2008. Segment results improved mainly due to a decline in net realized losses on investments of $243,803 (after tax) and the above mentioned $83,542 (after tax) favorable legal settlement with Willis Limited. Segment results also include a $3,500 (after tax) penalty to settle the previously disclosed SEC investigation regarding a finite reinsurance arrangement. Expenses related to the SEC investigation, which included reimbursements of certain SEC investigation related expenses through our director and officer insurance coverage, were $4,076 (after tax) lower in Twelve Months 2009 compared with Twelve Months 2008. These improvements were partially offset by a tax benefit of $88,994 related to the sale of an inactive subsidiary included in Twelve Months 2008, $9,914 of tax expense from the change in deferred tax asset valuation allowance, previously disclosed executive compensation expense (severance and special retirement bonus) of $4,550 (after tax) and a decline in net investment income of $6,467 (after tax). Total Revenues Total revenues increased $495,748, to $125,915 for Twelve Months 2009 compared with $(369,833) for Twelve Months 2008. The increase in revenues is mainly due to an improvement of $375,082 in net realized losses on investments and the above mentioned favorable legal settlement with Willis Limited. Included in net realized losses on investments were other than temporary impairments (OTTI) of $38,660 and $340,153 for Twelve Months 2009 and Twelve Months 2008, respectively. These increases were partially offset by a decline of $9,949 in net investment income as a result of lower short term interest rates and lower average invested assets and $6,951 in lower amortization of deferred gains on disposal of businesses. Total Benefits, Losses and Expenses Total expenses increased $7,090, to $161,846 in Twelve Months 2009 compared with $154,756 in Twelve Months 2008. The increase in expenses is mainly due to additional executive compensation expense of $7,000. Goodwill Impairment The goodwill impairment test has two steps. Step 1 of the test identifies potential impairments at the reporting unit level, which for the Company is the same as our operating segments, by comparing the estimated fair value of each reporting unit to its net book value. If the estimated fair value of a reporting unit exceeds its net book value, there is no impairment of goodwill and Step 2 is unnecessary. However, if the net book value exceeds the estimated fair value, then Step 1 is failed, and Step 2 is performed to determine the amount of the potential impairment. Step 2 utilizes acquisition accounting guidance and requires the fair value calculation of all individual assets and liabilities of the reporting unit (excluding goodwill, but including any unrecognized intangible assets). The net fair value of assets less liabilities is then compared to the reporting units total estimated fair value as calculated in Step 1. The excess of fair value over the net asset value equals the implied fair value of goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is then compared to the carrying value of goodwill to determine the reporting units goodwill impairment. See Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Critical Factors Affecting Results Critical Accounting Estimates Valuation and Recoverability of Goodwill and Notes 6 and 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements contained elsewhere in this report for more information. Investments The Company had total investments of $13,505,478 and $13,157,832 as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. For more information on our investments see Note 5 to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report. 68 Table of Contents The following table shows the credit quality of our fixed maturity securities portfolio as of the dates indicated: As of Fixed Maturity Securities by Credit Quality (Fair Value) December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Aaa / Aa / A $ 6,488,208 61.2 % $ 6,152,842 61.8 % Baa 3,227,216 30.4 % 2,953,964 29.6 % Ba 618,465 5.8 % 647,321 6.5 % B and lower 278,663 2.6 % 212,645 2.1 % Total $ 10,612,552 100.0 % $ 9,966,772 100.0 % Major categories of net investment income were as follows: Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Fixed maturity securities $ 572,909 $ 558,639 $ 584,712 Equity securities 33,864 38,189 45,775 Commercial mortgage loans on real estate 88,894 92,116 95,013 Policy loans 3,248 3,329 3,717 Short term investments 5,259 7,933 16,256 Other investments 19,019 17,453 27,395 Cash and cash equivalents 5,577 8,359 26,990 Total investment income 728,770 726,018 799,858 Investment expenses (25,580 ) (27,180 ) (25,511 ) Net investment income $ 703,190 $ 698,838 $ 774,347 Net investment income increased $4,352, or 1%, to $703,190 at December 31, 2010 from $698,838 at December 31, 2009. The increase is due to higher invested assets partially offset by lower investment yields. Net investment income decreased $75,509, or 10%, to $698,838 at December 31, 2009 from $774,347 at December 31, 2008. The decrease is due to lower overall investment yields. The credit markets improved throughout 2010. As a result, many securities in the portfolio have shown improved market values throughout the period. This has led to a net unrealized gain position of $617,538 as of December 31, 2010, compared to $281,327 as of December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2010, the Company owned $178,997 of securities guaranteed by financial guarantee insurance companies. Included in this amount was $155,244 of municipal securities, with a credit rating of A+ both with and without the guarantee. The Company has exposure to sub prime and related mortgages within our fixed maturity security portfolio. At December 31, 2010, approximately 2.3% of our residential mortgage backed holdings had exposure to sub prime mortgage collateral. This represented approximately 0.2% of the total fixed income portfolio and 0.7% of the total unrealized gain position. Of the securities with sub prime exposure, approximately 26% are rated as investment grade. All residential mortgage backed securities, including those with sub prime exposure, are reviewed as part of the ongoing other than temporary impairment monitoring process. 69 Table of Contents As required by the fair value measurements and disclosures guidance, the Company has identified and disclosed its financial assets in a fair value hierarchy, which consists of the following three levels: Level 1 inputs utilize quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the Company has the ability to access. Level 2 inputs utilize other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset. Level 2 inputs include quoted prices for similar assets in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets in markets that are not active and inputs other than quoted prices that are observable in the marketplace for the asset. The observable inputs are used in valuation models to calculate the fair value for the asset. Level 3 inputs are unobservable but are significant to the fair value measurement for the asset, and include situations where there is little, if any, market activity for the asset. These inputs reflect managements own assumptions about the assumptions a market participant would use in pricing the asset. A review of fair value hierarchy classifications is conducted on a quarterly basis. Changes in the observability of valuation inputs may result in a reclassification of levels for certain securities within the fair value hierarchy. Level 2 securities are valued using various observable market inputs obtained from a pricing service. The pricing service prepares estimates of fair value measurements for our Level 2 securities using proprietary valuation models which include observable market inputs. Observable market inputs are the assumptions market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability based on market data obtained from independent sources. The extent of the use of each observable market input for a security depends on the type of security and the market conditions at the balance sheet date. The following observable market inputs (standard inputs), listed in the approximate order of priority, are utilized in the pricing evaluation of Level 2 securities: benchmark yields, reported trades, broker/dealer quotes, issuer spreads, two sided markets, benchmark securities, bids, offers and reference data. To price municipal bonds, the pricing service uses material event notices and new issue data inputs in addition to the standard inputs. To price residential and commercial mortgage backed securities and asset backed securities, the pricing service uses vendor trading platform data, monthly payment information and collateral performance inputs in addition to the standard inputs. To price fixed maturity securities denominated in Canadian dollars, the pricing service uses observable inputs, including but not limited to, benchmark yields, reported trades, issuer spreads, benchmark securities and reference data. The pricing service also evaluates each security based on relevant market information including: relevant credit information, perceived market movements and sector news. Valuation models can change period to period, depending on the appropriate observable inputs that are available at the balance sheet date to price a security. When market observable inputs are unavailable to the pricing service, the remaining unpriced securities are submitted to independent brokers who provide non binding broker quotes or are priced by other qualified sources and are categorized as Level 3 securities. The Company could not corroborate the non binding broker quotes with Level 2 inputs. A non pricing service source prices certain privately placed corporate bonds using a model with observable inputs including, but not limited to, the credit rating, credit spreads, sector add ons, and issuer specific add ons. A non pricing service source prices our CPI Caps using a model with inputs including, but not limited to, the time to expiration, the notional amount, the strike price, the forward rate, implied volatility and the discount rate. 70 Table of Contents Management evaluates the following factors in order to determine whether the market for a financial asset is inactive. The factors include, but are not limited to: There are few recent transactions, Little information is released publicly, The available prices vary significantly over time or among market participants, The prices are stale (i.e., not current), and The magnitude of the bid ask spread. Illiquidity did not have a material impact in the fair value determination of the Companys financial assets. The Company generally obtains one price for each financial asset. The Company performs a monthly analysis to assess if the evaluated prices represent a reasonable estimate of their fair value. This process involves quantitative and qualitative analysis and is overseen by investment and accounting professionals. Examples of procedures performed include, but are not limited to, initial and on going review of pricing service methodologies, review of the prices received from the pricing service, review of pricing statistics and trends, and comparison of prices for certain securities with two different appropriate price sources for reasonableness. Following this analysis, the Company generally uses the best estimate of fair value based upon all available inputs. On infrequent occasions, a non pricing service source may be more familiar with the market activity for a particular security than the pricing service. In these cases the price used is taken from the non pricing service source. The pricing service provides information to indicate which securities were priced using market observable inputs so that the Company can properly categorize our financial assets in the fair value hierarchy. Securities Lending and Borrowing The Company engages in transactions in which fixed maturity securities, especially bonds issued by the U.S. government, government agencies and authorities, and U.S. corporations, are loaned to selected broker/dealers. Collateral, greater than or equal to 102% of the fair value of the securities lent, plus accrued interest, is received in the form of cash and cash equivalents held by a custodian bank for the benefit of the Company. The use of cash collateral received is unrestricted. The Company reinvests the cash collateral received, generally in investments of high credit quality that are designated as available for sale. The Company monitors the fair value of securities loaned and the collateral received, with additional collateral obtained, as necessary. The Company is subject to the risk of loss to the extent there is a loss on the re investment of cash collateral. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, our collateral held under securities lending, of which its use is unrestricted, was $122,219 and $218,129, respectively, while our liability to the borrower for collateral received was $122,931 and $220,279, respectively. The difference between the collateral held and obligations under securities lending is recorded as an unrealized loss and is included as part of AOCI. All securities with unrealized losses have been in a continuous loss position for twelve months or longer as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009. The Company includes the available for sale investments purchased with the cash collateral in its evaluation of other than temporary impairments. Cash proceeds that the Company receives as collateral for the securities it lends and subsequent repayment of the cash are regarded by the Company as cash flows from financing activities, since the cash received is considered a borrowing. Since the Company reinvests the cash collateral generally in investments that are designated as available for sale, the reinvestment is presented as cash flows from investing activities. The Company began engaging in transactions during 2010 in which securities issued by the U.S. government and government agencies and authorities, are purchased under agreements to resell (reverse repurchase agreements). The Company may take possession of the securities purchased under reverse repurchase agreements. Collateral, greater than or equal to 100% of the fair value of the securities purchased, plus accrued interest, is pledged in the form of cash and cash equivalents or other securities, as provided for in 71 Table of Contents the underlying agreement to selected broker/dealers. The use of the cash collateral pledged is unrestricted. Interest earned on the collateral pledged is recorded as investment income. As of December 31, 2010, we had $14,370 of receivables under securities loan agreements which is included in other assets on the consolidated balance sheets. The Company enters into these reverse repurchase agreements in order to initiate short positions in its investment portfolio. The borrowed securities are sold in the marketplace. The Company records obligations to return the securities that we no longer hold as a liability. The financial liabilities resulting from these borrowings are carried at fair value with the changes in value reported as realized gains or losses. As of December 31, 2010, we had $14,281 of obligations to return borrowed securities which is included in accounts payable and other liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets. Liquidity and Capital Resources Regulatory Requirements Assurant, Inc. is a holding company, and as such, has limited direct operations of its own. Our holding company assets consist primarily of the capital stock of our subsidiaries. Accordingly, our future cash flows depend upon the availability of dividends and other statutorily permissible payments from our subsidiaries, such as payments under our tax allocation agreement and under management agreements with our subsidiaries. The ability to pay such dividends and to make such other payments will be limited by applicable laws and regulations of the states in which our subsidiaries are domiciled, which subject our subsidiaries to significant regulatory restrictions. The dividend requirements and regulations vary from state to state and by type of insurance provided by the applicable subsidiary. These laws and regulations require, among other things, our insurance subsidiaries to maintain minimum solvency requirements and limit the amount of dividends these subsidiaries can pay to the holding company. Along with solvency regulations, the primary driver in determining the amount of capital used for dividends is the level of capital needed to maintain desired financial strength ratings from A. M. Best. Given recent economic events that have affected the insurance industry, both regulators and rating agencies could become more conservative in their methodology and criteria, including increasing capital requirements for our insurance subsidiaries which, in turn, could negatively affect our capital resources. For 2011, the maximum amount of distributions our U.S. insurance subsidiaries could pay, under applicable laws and regulations without prior regulatory approval, is approximately $614,362. In total, we have taken dividends, net of infusions, of $832,300 from our operating companies during 2010. We anticipate that we will be able to take dividends in 2011 of at least equal to operating company earnings. Liquidity As of December 31, 2010, we had approximately $878,622 in capital at the holding company. Excluding our $250,000 capital buffer against tail event risks, we have $628,622 in deployable capital. Dividends or returns of capital paid by our subsidiaries were $886,200, $703,099 and 453,303 for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We use these cash inflows primarily to pay expenses, to make interest payments on indebtedness, to make dividend payments to our stockholders, to make subsidiary capital contributions, to fund acquisitions and to repurchase our outstanding shares. In addition to paying expenses and making interest payments on indebtedness, our capital management strategy provides for several uses of the cash generated by our subsidiaries, including without limitation, returning capital to shareholders through share repurchases and dividends, investing in our businesses to support growth in targeted areas, and making prudent and opportunistic acquisitions. During 2010, 2009 and 2008 we made share repurchases and dividends of $602,568, $101,545 and $122,672, respectively. The primary sources of funds for our subsidiaries consist of premiums and fees collected, the proceeds from the sales and maturity of investments and investment income. Cash is primarily used to pay insurance claims, agent commissions, operating expenses and taxes. We generally invest our subsidiaries excess funds in order to generate investment income. 72 Table of Contents We conduct periodic asset liability studies to measure the duration of our insurance liabilities, to develop optimal asset portfolio maturity structures for our significant lines of business and ultimately to assess that cash flows are sufficient to meet the timing of cash needs. These studies are conducted in accordance with formal company wide Asset Liability Management (ALM) guidelines. To complete a study for a particular line of business, models are developed to project asset and liability cash flows and balance sheet items under a large, varied set of plausible economic scenarios. These models consider many factors including the current investment portfolio, the required capital for the related assets and liabilities, our tax position and projected cash flows from both existing and projected new business. Alternative asset portfolio structures are analyzed for significant lines of business. An investment portfolio maturity structure is then selected from these profiles given our return hurdle and risk preference. Sensitivity testing of significant liability assumptions and new business projections is also performed. Our liabilities have limited policyholder optionality which results in policyholder behavior that is relatively insensitive to the interest rate environment. In addition, our investment portfolio is largely comprised of highly liquid fixed maturity securities with a sufficient component of such securities invested that are near maturity which may be sold with minimal risk of loss to meet cash needs. Therefore, we believe we have limited exposure to disintermediation risk. Generally, our subsidiaries premiums, fees and investment income, along with planned asset sales and maturities, provide sufficient cash to pay claims and expenses. However, there are instances when unexpected cash needs arise in excess of that available from usual operating sources. In such instances, we have several options to raise needed funds, including selling assets from the subsidiaries investment portfolios, using holding company cash (if available), issuing commercial paper, or drawing funds from our revolving credit facility. In addition, we have filed an automatically effective shelf registration statement on Form S 3 with the SEC. This registration statement allows us to issue equity, debt or other types of securities through one or more methods of distribution. The terms of any offering would be established at the time of the offering, subject to market conditions. If we decide to make an offering of securities, we will consider the nature of the cash requirement as well as the cost of capital in determining what type of securities we may offer. On January 14, 2011, we announced that our Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.16 per common share payable on March 14, 2011 to stockholders of record as of February 28, 2011. We paid dividends of $0.16 on December 13, 2010, September 14, 2010 and June 8, 2010 and $0.15 per common share on March 8, 2010. We paid dividends of $0.15 on December 14, 2009, September 15, 2009 and June 9, 2009 and $0.14 per common share on March 9, 2009. Any determination to pay future dividends will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will be dependent upon: our subsidiaries payment of dividends and or other statutorily permissible payments to us; our results of operations and cash flows; our financial position and capital requirements; general business conditions; legal, tax, regulatory and contractual restrictions on the payment of dividends; and other factors our Board of Directors deems relevant. During the year ended December 31, 2010, the Company repurchased 15,224,645 shares of its outstanding common stock at a cost of $532,950. On January 18, 2011, the Companys Board of Directors authorized the Company to repurchase up to an additional $600,000 of its outstanding common stock, making its total authorization $805,587 at that date. The timing and the amount of future repurchases will depend on market conditions and other factors. Management believes that we will have sufficient liquidity to satisfy our needs over the next twelve months, including the ability to pay interest on our senior notes and dividends on our common shares. 73 Table of Contents Retirement and Other Employee Benefits We sponsor a qualified pension plan, the (Assurant Pension Plan) and various non qualified pension plans along with a retirement health benefits plan covering our employees who meet specified eligibility requirements. The reported expense and liability associated with these plans requires an extensive use of assumptions which include, but are not limited to, the discount rate, expected return on plan assets and rate of future compensation increases. We determine these assumptions based upon currently available market and industry data, and historical performance of the plan and its assets. The actuarial assumptions used in the calculation of our aggregate projected benefit obligation vary and include an expectation of long term appreciation in equity markets which is not changed by minor short term market fluctuations, but does change when large interim deviations occur. The assumptions we use may differ materially from actual results due to changing market and economic conditions, higher or lower withdrawal rates or longer or shorter life spans of the participants. The Pension Protection Act of 2006 (PPA) requires certain qualified plans, like the Assurant Pension Plan, to meet specified funding thresholds. If these funding thresholds are not met, there are negative consequences to the Assurant Pension Plan and participants. If the funded percentage falls below 80%, full payment of lump sum benefits as well as implementation of amendments improving benefits are restricted. As of January 1, 2010, the Assurant Pension Plans funded percentage was 113% on a PPA calculated basis. Therefore, benefit and payment restrictions did not occur during 2010. The 2010 funded measure will also be used to determine restrictions, if any, that can occur during the first nine months of 2011. Due to the funding status of the Assurant Pension Plan in 2010, no restrictions will exist before October 2011 (the time that the January 1, 2011 actuarial valuation needs to be completed). Also, based on the estimated funded status as of January 1, 2011, we do not anticipate any restrictions on benefits for the remainder of 2011. The Assurant Pension Plan was under funded by $96,278 and $87,977 (based on the fair value of the assets compared to the projected benefit obligation) on a GAAP basis at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. This equates to an 85% and 84% funded status at December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The change in under funded status is mainly due to a decrease in the discount rate used to determine the projected benefit obligation, which is partially offset by better than expected asset performance. In prior years we established a funding policy in which service cost plus 15% of the Assurant Pension Plan deficit is contributed annually. During 2010, we contributed $40,000 in cash to the Assurant Pension Plan. We expect to contribute at least $40,000 in cash to the Assurant Pension Plan over the course of 2011. See Note 22 to the Consolidated Financial Statements included elsewhere in this report for the components of the net periodic benefit cost. The impact of a 25 basis point change in the discount rate on the 2011 projected benefit expense would result in a change of $2,300 for the Assurant Pension Plan and the various non qualified pension plans and $300 for the retirement health benefit plan. The impact of a 25 basis point change in the expected return on assets assumption on the 2011 projected benefit expense would result in a change of $1,400 for the Assurant Pension Plan and the various non qualified pension plans and $100 for the retirement health benefits plan. Commercial Paper Program The Companys commercial paper program requires the Company to maintain liquidity facilities either in an available amount equal to any outstanding notes from the program or in an amount sufficient to maintain the ratings assigned to the notes issued from the program. Our commercial paper is rated AMB 2 by A.M. Best, P 2 by Moodys and A2 by S&P. The Companys subsidiaries do not maintain commercial paper or other borrowing facilities at their level. This program is currently backed up by a $350,000 senior revolving credit facility, of which $325,604 was available at December 31, 2010, due to outstanding letters of credit. 74 Table of Contents On December 18, 2009, the Company entered into a three year unsecured revolving credit agreement (2009 Credit Facility) with a syndicate of banks arranged by JP Morgan Chase Bank, Inc. and Bank of America, Inc. The 2009 Credit Facility provides for revolving loans and the issuance of multi bank, syndicated letters of credit and or letters of credit from a sole issuing bank in an aggregate amount of $350,000 and is available until December 2012, provided the Company is in compliance with all covenants. The agreement has a sublimit for letters of credit issued under the agreement of $50,000. The proceeds of these loans may be used for the Companys commercial paper program or for general corporate purposes. The Company did not use the commercial paper program during the twelve months ended December 31, 2010 and 2009 and there were no amounts relating to the commercial paper program outstanding at December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009. The Company made no borrowings using the 2009 Credit Facility and no loans are outstanding at December 31, 2010. The Company does have $24,396 of letters of credit outstanding under the 2009 Credit Facility as of December 31, 2010. The 2009 Credit Facility contains restrictive covenants, all of which were met as of December 31, 2010. These covenants include (but are not limited to): (i) Maintenance of a maximum debt to total capitalization ratio on the last day of any fiscal quarter of not greater than 35%, and (ii) Maintenance of a consolidated adjusted net worth in an amount not less than the Minimum Amount. For the purpose of this calculation the Minimum Amount is an amount equal to the sum of (a) the base amount $3,352,474 plus (b) 50% of consolidated net income for each fiscal quarter (if positive) ending after December 31, 2009, plus (c) 50% of the net proceeds of any issuance of Capital Stock or Hybrid Securities received after September 30, 2009. At December 31, 2010, our ratio of debt to total capitalization was 18%, the consolidated Minimum Amount described in (ii) above was $3,588,159 and our actual consolidated adjusted net worth as calculated under the covenant was $4,500,013. In the event of the breach of certain covenants all obligations under the facility, including unpaid principal and accrued interest and outstanding letters of credit, may become immediately due and payable. Senior Notes We have two series of senior notes outstanding in an aggregate principal amount of $975,000. The first series is $500,000 in principal amount, bears interest at 5.625% per year and is due February 15, 2014. The second series is $475,000 in principal amount, bears interest at 6.750% per year and is due February 15, 2034. Our senior notes are rated bbb by A.M. Best, Baa2 by Moodys and BBB by S&P, as of December 31, 2010. Interest on our senior notes is payable semi annually on February 15 and August 15 of each year. The interest expense incurred related to the Senior Notes was $60,188 for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The senior notes are unsecured obligations and rank equally with all of our other senior unsecured indebtedness. The senior notes are not redeemable prior to maturity. In managements opinion, dividends from our subsidiaries together with our income and gains from our investment portfolio will provide sufficient liquidity to meet our needs in the ordinary course of business. 75 Table of Contents Cash Flows We monitor cash flows at the consolidated, holding company and subsidiary levels. Cash flow forecasts at the consolidated and subsidiary levels are provided on a monthly basis, and we use trend and variance analyses to project future cash needs making adjustments to the forecasts when needed. The table below shows our recent net cash flows: For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Net cash provided by (used in): Operating activities (1) $ 540,313 $ 278,963 $ 976,857 Investing activities (8,876 ) 141,467 (329,003 ) Financing activities (699,473 ) (142,562 ) (412,134 ) Net change in cash $ (168,036 ) $ 277,868 $ 235,720 (1) Includes effect of exchange rates changes on cash and cash equivalents. Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008. Operating Activities: We typically generate operating cash inflows from premiums collected from our insurance products and income received from our investments while outflows consist of policy acquisition costs, benefits paid, and operating expenses. These net cash flows are then invested to support the obligations of our insurance products and required capital supporting these products. Our cash flows from operating activities are affected by the timing of premiums, fees, and investment income received and expenses paid. Net cash provided by operating activities was $540,313 and $278,963 for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increased operating activity cash flow is primarily due to an increase in net written premiums in our Assurant Solutions and Assurant Specialty Property segments. Net cash provided by operating activities was $278,963 and $976,857 for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to reduced gross written premium and greater claim payments made in 2009, primarily the result of deteriorating economic conditions and payments associated with hurricanes Ike and Gustav which occurred in the second half of 2008. Investing Activities: Net cash (used in) provided by investing activities was $(8,876) and $141,467 for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The change in investing activities is primarily due to an increase in purchases of fixed maturity securities and changes in our short term investments. Net cash provided by (used in) investing activities was $141,467 and $(329,003) for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The change in investing activities was primarily due to fewer purchases of short term investments, commercial mortgage loans, fixed maturity securities and equity securities, partially offset by a decrease in sales of fixed maturity and equity securities. Financing Activities: Net cash used in financing activities was $699,473 and $142,562 for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The increase in cash used in financing activities is primarily due to increased repurchases of our common stock and changes in our obligation under securities lending. 76 Table of Contents Net cash used in financing activities was $142,562 and $412,134 for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The decrease in cash used in financing activities was primarily due to the change in obligation under securities lending, fewer repurchases of common stock and a decrease in the redemption of mandatorily redeemable preferred stock. The table below shows our cash outflows for interest and dividends for the periods indicated: For the Years Ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 Security Interest paid on mandatory redeemable preferred stock and debt $ 60,539 $ 60,569 $ 60,859 Common stock dividends 69,618 69,596 63,672 Total $ 130,157 $ 130,165 $ 124,531 Commitments and Contingencies We have obligations and commitments to third parties as a result of our operations. These obligations and commitments, as of December 31, 2010, are detailed in the table below by maturity date as of the dates indicated: As of December 31, 2010 Total Less than 1 Year 1 3Years 3 5Years More than 5Years Contractual obligations : Insurance liabilities (1) $ 19,445,211 $ 1,738,096 $ 1,614,593 $ 1,446,706 $ 14,645,816 Debt and related interest 1,796,813 60,188 120,375 564,125 1,052,125 Mandatory redeemable preferred stock (2) 5,000 5,000 Operating leases 133,572 30,224 43,011 29,349 30,988 Pension obligations and postretirement benefit 551,050 39,807 80,222 110,945 320,076 Commitments: Purchase commitments 100,000 100,000 Investment purchases outstanding: Commercial mortgage loans on real estate 25,140 25,140 Other investments 3,524 3,524 Liability for unrecognized tax benefit 22,249 5,149 8,851 8,249 Total obligations and commitments $ 22,082,559 $ 2,007,128 $ 1,867,052 $ 2,159,374 $ 16,049,005 (1) Insurance liabilities reflect estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders. (2) During February 2011, all outstanding mandatory redeemable preferred stock shares were redeemed. Liabilities for future policy benefits and expenses of $8,105,153 and claims and benefits payable of $3,351,169 have been included in the commitments and contingencies table. Significant uncertainties relating to these liabilities include mortality, morbidity, expenses, persistency, investment returns, inflation, contract terms and the timing of payments. Letters of Credit In the normal course of business, letters of credit are issued primarily to support reinsurance arrangements. These letters of credit are supported by commitments with financial institutions. We had approximately $24,946 and $28,566 of letters of credit outstanding as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. 77 Table of Contents Off Balance Sheet Arrangements The Company does not have any off balance sheet arrangements that are reasonably likely to have a material effect on the financial condition, results of operations, liquidity, or capital resources of the Company. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk As a provider of insurance products, effective risk management is fundamental to our ability to protect both our customers and stockholders interests. We are exposed to potential loss from various market risks, in particular interest rate risk and credit risk. Additionally, we are exposed to inflation risk and to a lesser extent foreign currency risk. Interest rate risk is the possibility that the fair value of liabilities will change more or less than the market value of investments in response to changes in interest rates, including changes in investment yields and changes in spreads due to credit risks and other factors. Credit risk is the possibility that counterparties may not be able to meet payment obligations when they become due. We assume counterparty credit risk in many forms. A counterparty is any person or entity from which cash or other forms of consideration are expected to extinguish a liability or obligation to us. Primarily, our credit risk exposure is concentrated in our fixed maturity investment portfolio and, to a lesser extent, in our reinsurance recoverables. Inflation risk is the possibility that a change in domestic price levels produces an adverse effect on earnings. This typically happens when either invested assets or liabilities, but not both is indexed to inflation. Foreign exchange risk is the possibility that changes in exchange rates produce an adverse effect on earnings and equity when measured in domestic currency. This risk is largest when assets backing liabilities payable in one currency are invested in financial instruments of another currency. Our general principle is to invest in assets that match the currency in which we expect the liabilities to be paid. Interest Rate Risk Interest rate risk arises as we invest substantial funds in interest sensitive fixed income assets, such as fixed maturity securities, mortgage backed and asset backed securities and commercial mortgage loans, primarily in the United States and Canada. There are two forms of interest rate risk price risk and reinvestment risk. Price risk occurs when fluctuations in interest rates have a direct impact on the market valuation of these investments. As interest rates rise, the market value of these investments falls, and conversely, as interest rates fall, the market value of these investments rise. Reinvestment risk occurs when fluctuations in interest rates have a direct impact on expected cash flows from mortgage backed and asset backed securities. As interest rates fall, an increase in prepayments on these assets results in earlier than expected receipt of cash flows forcing us to reinvest the proceeds in an unfavorable lower interest rate environment. Conversely, as interest rates rise, a decrease in prepayments on these assets results in later than expected receipt of cash flows forcing us to forgo reinvesting in a favorable higher interest rate environment. We manage interest rate risk by selecting investments with characteristics such as duration, yield, currency and liquidity tailored to the anticipated cash outflow characteristics of our insurance and reinsurance liabilities. Our group long term disability reserves are also sensitive to interest rates. Group long term disability and group term life waiver of premium reserves are discounted to the valuation date at the valuation interest rate. The valuation interest rate is determined by taking into consideration actual and expected earned rates on our asset portfolio. 78 Table of Contents The interest rate sensitivity relating to price risk of our fixed maturity securities is assessed using hypothetical scenarios that assume several positive and negative parallel shifts of the yield curves. We have assumed that the United States and Canadian yield curve shifts are of equal direction and magnitude. The individual securities are repriced under each scenario using a valuation model. For investments such as callable bonds and mortgage backed and asset backed securities, a prepayment model was used in conjunction with a valuation model. Our actual experience may differ from the results noted below particularly due to assumptions utilized or if events occur that were not included in the methodology. The following tables summarize the results of this analysis for bonds, mortgage backed and asset backed securities held in our investment portfolio as of the dates indicated: Interest Rate Movement Analysis of Market Value of Fixed Maturity Securities Investment Portfolio As of December 31, 2010 100 50 0 50 100 Total market value $ 11,388,823 $ 10,995,378 $ 10,612,552 $ 10,246,251 $ 9,900,718 % Change in market value from base case 7.31 % 3.61 % % (3.45 )% (6.71 )% $ Change in market value from base case $ 776,271 $ 382,826 $ $ (366,301 ) $ (711,834 ) As of December 31, 2009 100 50 0 50 100 Total market value $ 10,680,018 $ 10,316,329 $ 9,966,772 $ 9,632,477 $ 9,315,290 % Change in market value from base case 7.16 % 3.51 % % (3.35 )% (6.45 )% $ Change in market value from base case $ 713,246 $ 349,557 $ $ (334,295 ) $ (651,482 ) The interest rate sensitivity relating to reinvestment risk of our fixed maturity securities is assessed using hypothetical scenarios that assume purchases in the primary market and considers the effects of interest rates on sales. The effects of embedded options including call or put features are not considered. Our actual results may differ from the results noted below particularly due to assumptions utilized or if events occur that were not included in the methodology. The following tables summarize the results of this analysis on our reported portfolio yield as of the dates indicated: Interest Rate Movement Analysis of Portfolio Yield of Fixed Maturity Securities Investment Portfolio As of December 31, 2010 100 50 0 50 100 Portfolio yield 5.63 % 5.69 % 5.76 % 5.83 % 5.89 % Basis point change in portfolio yield (0.13 )% (0.07 )% % 0.07 % 0.13 % As of December 31, 2009 100 50 0 50 100 Portfolio yield 5.80 % 5.85 % 5.89 % 5.93 % 5.98 % Basis point change in portfolio yield (0.09 )% (0.04 )% % 0.04 % 0.09 % 79 Table of Contents Credit Risk We have exposure to credit risk primarily from customers, as a holder of fixed maturity securities and by entering into reinsurance cessions. Our risk management strategy and investment policy is to invest in debt instruments of high credit quality issuers and to limit the amount of credit exposure with respect to any one issuer. We attempt to limit our credit exposure by imposing fixed maturity portfolio limits on individual issuers based upon credit quality. Currently our portfolio limits are 1.5% for issuers rated AA and above, 1% for issuers rated A to A+, 0.75% for issuers rated BBB to BBB+ and 0.38% for issuers rated BB to BB+. These portfolio limits are further reduced for certain issuers with whom we have credit exposure on reinsurance agreements. We use the lower of Moodys or S&Ps ratings to determine an issuers rating. The following table presents our fixed maturity investment portfolio by ratings of the nationally recognized securities rating organizations as of the dates indicated: December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Rating Fair Value Percentage ofTotal Fair Value Percentage ofTotal Aaa/Aa/A $ 6,488,208 61 % $ 6,152,842 62 % Baa 3,227,216 30 % 2,953,964 30 % Ba 618,465 6 % 647,321 6 % B and lower 278,663 3 % 212,645 2 % Total $ 10,612,552 100 % $ 9,966,772 100 % We are also exposed to the credit risk of our reinsurers. When we reinsure, we are still liable to our insureds regardless of whether we get reimbursed by our reinsurer. As part of our overall risk and capacity management strategy, we purchase reinsurance for certain risks underwritten by our various business segments as described above under Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Reinsurance. The Company had $4,997,316 and $4,231,734 of reinsurance recoverables as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, the majority of which are protected from credit risk by various types of risk mitigation mechanisms such as trusts, letters of credit or by withholding the assets in a modified coinsurance or co funds withheld arrangement. For example, reserves of $1,185,687 and $2,303,221 as of December 31, 2010 and $1,221,513 and $1,569,252 as of December 31, 2009, relating to two large coinsurance arrangements with The Hartford and John Hancock (a subsidiary of Manulife Financial Corporation), respectively, related to sales of businesses are held in trusts. If the value of the assets in these trusts falls below the value of the associated liabilities, The Hartford and John Hancock, as the case may be, will be required to put more assets in the trusts. We may be dependent on the financial condition of The Hartford and John Hancock, whose A.M. Best ratings are currently A and A+, respectively. A.M. Best recently placed a negative outlook on the financial strength ratings of John Hancock and a stable outlook on the financial strength ratings of The Hartford. For recoverables that are not protected by these mechanisms, we are dependent solely on the credit of the reinsurer. Occasionally, the credit worthiness of the reinsurer becomes questionable. See Item 1A Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Company Reinsurance may not be available or adequate to protect us against losses, and we are subject to the credit risk of reinsurers and We have sold businesses through reinsurance that could again become our direct financial and administrative responsibility if the purchasing Companies were to become insolvent. A majority of our reinsurance exposure has been ceded to companies rated A or better by A.M. Best. Inflation Risk Inflation risk arises as we invest substantial funds in nominal assets, which are not indexed to the level of inflation, whereas the underlying liabilities are indexed to the level of inflation. Approximately 7% and 9% of 80 Table of Contents Assurant preneed insurance policies, with reserves of $316,033 and $341,956 as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, have death benefits that are guaranteed to grow with the CPI. In times of rapidly rising inflation, the credited death benefit growth on these liabilities increases relative to the investment income earned on the nominal assets resulting in an adverse impact on earnings. We have partially mitigated this risk by purchasing derivative contracts with payments tied to the CPI. See Derivatives. In addition, we have inflation risk in our individual and small employer group health insurance businesses to the extent that medical costs increase with inflation, and we have not been able to increase premiums to keep pace with inflation. Foreign Exchange Risk We are exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from our international operations, mainly in Canada. We also have foreign exchange risk exposure to the British pound, Brazilian Real, Euro, Mexican Peso and Argentine Peso. However, total invested assets denominated in currencies other than the Canadian dollar were less than 2% of our total invested assets at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Foreign exchange risk is mitigated by matching our liabilities under insurance policies that are payable in foreign currencies with investments that are denominated in such currency. We have not established any hedge to our foreign currency exchange rate exposure. The foreign exchange risk sensitivity of our fixed maturity securities denominated in Canadian dollars, whose balance was $1,399,042 and $1,141,656 of the total as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, on our entire fixed maturity portfolio is summarized in the following tables: Foreign Exchange Movement Analysis of Market Value of Fixed Maturity Securities Assets As of December 31, 2010 Foreign exchange spot rate at December 31,2010, US Dollar to Canadian Dollar 10% 5% 0 5% 10% Total market value $ 10,472,648 $ 10,542,600 $ 10,612,552 10,682,504 $ 10,752,456 % change of market value from base case (1.32 )% (0.66 )% % 0.66 % 1.32 % $ change of market value from base case $ (139,904 ) $ (69,952 ) $ $ 69,952 $ 139,904 As of December 31, 2009 Foreign exchange spot rate at December 31, 2009, US Dollar toCanadian Dollar 10% 5% 0 5% 10% Total market value $ 9,852,603 $ 9,909,688 $ 9,966,772 $ 10,023,856 $ 10,080,941 % change of market value from base case (1.15 )% (0.57 )% % 0.57 % 1.15 % $ change of market value from base case $ (114,169 ) $ (57,084 ) $ $ 57,084 $ 114.169 The foreign exchange risk sensitivity of our consolidated net income is assessed using hypothetical test scenarios that assume earnings in Canadian dollars are recognized evenly throughout a period. Our actual results may differ from the results noted below particularly due to assumptions utilized or if events occur that were not included in the methodology. For more information on this risk. Please see Item 1A Risk Factors Risk Related to Our Company Fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies may 81 Table of Contents materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The following tables summarize the results of this analysis on our reported net income as of the dates indicated: Foreign Exchange Movement Analysis Of Net Income As of December 31, 2010 Foreign exchange daily average rate for the year ended December 31, 2010, US Dollar to Canadian Dollar 10% 5% 0 5% 10% Net income $ 274,761 $ 276,969 $ 279,177 $ 281,385 $ 283,593 % change of net income from base case (1.58 )% (0.79 )% % 0.79 % 1.58 % $ change of net income from base case $ (4,416 ) $ (2,208 ) $ $ 2,208 $ 4,416 As of December 31, 2009 Foreign exchange daily average rare for the year ended December 31,2009. US Dollar to Canadian Dollar 10% 5% 0 5% 10% Net Income $ 427,843 $ 429,208 $ 430.574 $ 431.940 $ 433,305 % change of net income from base case (063 )% (0.32 )% % 0.32 % 0.63 % $ change of net income from base case $ (2,731 ) $ (1.366 ) $ $ 1,366 $ 2,731 Derivatives Derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest rates, foreign exchange rates, financial indices or the prices of securities or commodities. Derivative financial instruments may be exchange traded or contracted in the over the counter market and include swaps, futures, options and forward contracts. Under insurance statutes, our insurance companies may use derivative financial instruments to hedge actual or anticipated changes in their assets or liabilities, to replicate cash market instruments or for certain income generating activities. These statutes generally prohibit the use of derivatives for speculative purposes. We generally do not use derivative financial instruments. We have purchased contracts to cap the inflation risk exposure inherent in some of our preneed insurance policies. In accordance with the guidance on embedded derivatives, we have bifurcated the modified coinsurance agreement with The Hartford into its debt host and embedded derivative (total return swap) and recorded the embedded derivative at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets. The invested assets related to this modified coinsurance agreement are included in other investments on the consolidated balance sheets. 82 Table of Contents 
 
Item 7 Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Reinsurance. The Company had $4,997,316 and $4,231,734 of reinsurance recoverables as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, the majority of which are protected from credit risk by various types of risk mitigation mechanisms such as trusts, letters of credit or by withholding the assets in a modified coinsurance or co funds withheld arrangement. For example, reserves of $1,185,687 and $2,303,221 as of December 31, 2010 and $1,221,513 and $1,569,252 as of December 31, 2009, relating to two large coinsurance arrangements with The Hartford and John Hancock (a subsidiary of Manulife Financial Corporation), respectively, related to sales of businesses are held in trusts. If the value of the assets in these trusts falls below the value of the associated liabilities, The Hartford and John Hancock, as the case may be, will be required to put more assets in the trusts. We may be dependent on the financial condition of The Hartford and John Hancock, whose A.M. Best ratings are currently A and A+, respectively. A.M. Best recently placed a negative outlook on the financial strength ratings of John Hancock and a stable outlook on the financial strength ratings of The Hartford. For recoverables that are not protected by these mechanisms, we are dependent solely on the credit of the reinsurer. Occasionally, the credit worthiness of the reinsurer becomes questionable. See Item 1A Risk Factors Risks Related to Our Company Reinsurance may not be available or adequate to protect us against losses, and we are subject to the credit risk of reinsurers and We have sold businesses through reinsurance that could again become our direct financial and administrative responsibility if the purchasing Companies were to become insolvent. A majority of our reinsurance exposure has been ceded to companies rated A or better by A.M. Best. Inflation Risk Inflation risk arises as we invest substantial funds in nominal assets, which are not indexed to the level of inflation, whereas the underlying liabilities are indexed to the level of inflation. Approximately 7% and 9% of 80 Table of Contents Assurant preneed insurance policies, with reserves of $316,033 and $341,956 as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, have death benefits that are guaranteed to grow with the CPI. In times of rapidly rising inflation, the credited death benefit growth on these liabilities increases relative to the investment income earned on the nominal assets resulting in an adverse impact on earnings. We have partially mitigated this risk by purchasing derivative contracts with payments tied to the CPI. See Derivatives. In addition, we have inflation risk in our individual and small employer group health insurance businesses to the extent that medical costs increase with inflation, and we have not been able to increase premiums to keep pace with inflation. Foreign Exchange Risk We are exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from our international operations, mainly in Canada. We also have foreign exchange risk exposure to the British pound, Brazilian Real, Euro, Mexican Peso and Argentine Peso. However, total invested assets denominated in currencies other than the Canadian dollar were less than 2% of our total invested assets at December 31, 2010 and 2009. Foreign exchange risk is mitigated by matching our liabilities under insurance policies that are payable in foreign currencies with investments that are denominated in such currency. We have not established any hedge to our foreign currency exchange rate exposure. The foreign exchange risk sensitivity of our fixed maturity securities denominated in Canadian dollars, whose balance was $1,399,042 and $1,141,656 of the total as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, on our entire fixed maturity portfolio is summarized in the following tables: Foreign Exchange Movement Analysis of Market Value of Fixed Maturity Securities Assets As of December 31, 2010 Foreign exchange spot rate at December 31,2010, US Dollar to Canadian Dollar 10% 5% 0 5% 10% Total market value $ 10,472,648 $ 10,542,600 $ 10,612,552 10,682,504 $ 10,752,456 % change of market value from base case (1.32 )% (0.66 )% % 0.66 % 1.32 % $ change of market value from base case $ (139,904 ) $ (69,952 ) $ $ 69,952 $ 139,904 As of December 31, 2009 Foreign exchange spot rate at December 31, 2009, US Dollar toCanadian Dollar 10% 5% 0 5% 10% Total market value $ 9,852,603 $ 9,909,688 $ 9,966,772 $ 10,023,856 $ 10,080,941 % change of market value from base case (1.15 )% (0.57 )% % 0.57 % 1.15 % $ change of market value from base case $ (114,169 ) $ (57,084 ) $ $ 57,084 $ 114.169 The foreign exchange risk sensitivity of our consolidated net income is assessed using hypothetical test scenarios that assume earnings in Canadian dollars are recognized evenly throughout a period. Our actual results may differ from the results noted below particularly due to assumptions utilized or if events occur that were not included in the methodology. For more information on this risk. Please see Item 1A Risk Factors Risk Related to Our Company Fluctuations in the exchange rate of the U.S. dollar and other foreign currencies may 81 Table of Contents materially and adversely affect our results of operations. The following tables summarize the results of this analysis on our reported net income as of the dates indicated: Foreign Exchange Movement Analysis Of Net Income As of December 31, 2010 Foreign exchange daily average rate for the year ended December 31, 2010, US Dollar to Canadian Dollar 10% 5% 0 5% 10% Net income $ 274,761 $ 276,969 $ 279,177 $ 281,385 $ 283,593 % change of net income from base case (1.58 )% (0.79 )% % 0.79 % 1.58 % $ change of net income from base case $ (4,416 ) $ (2,208 ) $ $ 2,208 $ 4,416 As of December 31, 2009 Foreign exchange daily average rare for the year ended December 31,2009. US Dollar to Canadian Dollar 10% 5% 0 5% 10% Net Income $ 427,843 $ 429,208 $ 430.574 $ 431.940 $ 433,305 % change of net income from base case (063 )% (0.32 )% % 0.32 % 0.63 % $ change of net income from base case $ (2,731 ) $ (1.366 ) $ $ 1,366 $ 2,731 Derivatives Derivatives are financial instruments whose values are derived from interest rates, foreign exchange rates, financial indices or the prices of securities or commodities. Derivative financial instruments may be exchange traded or contracted in the over the counter market and include swaps, futures, options and forward contracts. Under insurance statutes, our insurance companies may use derivative financial instruments to hedge actual or anticipated changes in their assets or liabilities, to replicate cash market instruments or for certain income generating activities. These statutes generally prohibit the use of derivatives for speculative purposes. We generally do not use derivative financial instruments. We have purchased contracts to cap the inflation risk exposure inherent in some of our preneed insurance policies. In accordance with the guidance on embedded derivatives, we have bifurcated the modified coinsurance agreement with The Hartford into its debt host and embedded derivative (total return swap) and recorded the embedded derivative at fair value in the consolidated balance sheets. The invested assets related to this modified coinsurance agreement are included in other investments on the consolidated balance sheets. 82 Table of Contents 
 
