FILE:EXPE/EXPE-8K-20050815173000.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Changes in Control of Registrant	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Changes in Control of Registrant
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 ------------------------------------- FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 DATE OF REPORT (DATE OF EARLIEST EVENT REPORTED): AUGUST 9, 2005 EXPEDIA, INC. (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter) DELAWARE 333-124303-01 20-2705720 (State or Other Jurisdiction (Commission File Number) (IRS Employer of Incorporation) Identification Number) 3150 139TH AVENUE SE 98005 BELLEVUE, WASHINGTON (Address of Principal Executive Offices) (Zip Code) Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (425) 679-7200 Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions: |_| Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) |_| Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) |_| Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
ITEM 1.01. ENTRY INTO MATERIAL DEFINITIVE AGREEMENTS. SPIN-OFF AGREEMENTS On December 21, 2004, IAC/InterActiveCorp ("IAC") announced its plan to separate into two independent public companies. We refer to this transaction as the "Spin-Off" and the new company that holds the travel and travel-related businesses of IAC as "Expedia, Inc." Expedia, Inc. ("Expedia" or the "Company") consists of the travel and travel-related businesses, subsidiaries and investments formerly owned by IAC (other than Interval International and TV Travel Shop) and TripAdvisor, Inc. On August 9, 2005, IAC completed the Spin-Off. In connection with the Spin-Off, IAC and Expedia entered into the following agreements (collectively, the "Spin-Off Agreements"): o a Separation Agreement that sets forth the arrangements between IAC and Expedia with respect to the principal corporate transactions necessary to complete the Spin-Off, and a number of other principles governing the relationship between IAC and Expedia following the Spin-Off. o a Tax Sharing Agreement that will govern the respective rights, responsibilities and obligations of IAC and Expedia after the Spin-Off with respect to tax liabilities and benefits, tax attributes, tax contests and other matters regarding income taxes, other taxes and related tax returns. o an Employee Matters Agreement that will govern a wide range of compensation and benefit issues, including the allocation between IAC and Expedia of responsibility for the employment and benefits obligations and liabilities of each company's current and former employees (and their dependents and beneficiaries). o a Transition Services Agreement that will govern the provision of transition services from IAC to Expedia. The section of Expedia's Registration Statement on Form S-4, as amended (File No. 333-124303-01) (the "Registration Statement") entitled "Relationship Between IAC and Expedia after the Spin-Off" beginning on page 50 of the Registration Statement, which sets forth descriptions of each of the agreements listed above, is incorporated herein by reference. GOVERNANCE AGREEMENT On August 9, 2005, in connection with the Spin-Off, Expedia entered into a Governance Agreement (the "Governance Agreement") with Liberty Media Corporation ("Liberty") and Barry Diller, the Chairman and Senior Executive of Expedia. Representation of Liberty On the Expedia Board of Directors Under the terms of the Governance Agreement: o Liberty has the right to nominate up to two directors of Expedia so long as Liberty 1
beneficially owns at least 33,651,963 equity securities of Expedia (so long as Liberty's ownership percentage is at least equal to 15% of the total equity securities of Expedia); o Liberty has the right to nominate one director of Expedia so long as Liberty beneficially owns at least 22,434,642 equity securities of Expedia (so long as Liberty owns at least 5% of the total equity securities of Expedia); and o Expedia will use its reasonable best efforts to cause one of Liberty's designees to be a member of a committee of the board of directors of Expedia and, to the extent the person designated by Liberty would qualify as a member of the compensation committee of the board of directors of Expedia under applicable tax and securities laws and regulations, Expedia will seek to have that person appointed to the compensation committee of Expedia. Pursuant to the terms of the Governance Agreement, Expedia will cause each director that Liberty nominates to be included in the slate of nominees recommended by the Board of Directors of Expedia to the stockholders of Expedia for election as directors at each annual meeting of the stockholders of Expedia and will use all reasonable efforts to cause the election of each such director including soliciting proxies in favor of the election of such persons. Liberty has the right to designate a replacement director to the board of Expedia in order to fill any vacancy of a director previously designated by Liberty. Contingent Matters The Governance Agreement lists certain actions that require the prior consent of Liberty and Mr. Diller before Expedia can take any such action. For so long as: o in the case of Liberty, Liberty owns at least 29,912,856 equity securities and at least 5% of the total equity securities of Expedia (the "Liberty Condition"); and o in the case of Mr. Diller, he owns at least 5,000,000 common shares (including options to purchase common shares, whether or not then exercisable), continues to serve as chief executive officer at Expedia and has not become disabled (the "Diller Condition," and together with the Liberty Condition, the "Consent Conditions"), Expedia has agreed that, without the prior approval of Liberty and/or Mr. Diller, as applicable, it will not engage in any transaction that would result in Liberty or Mr. Diller having to divest any part of their interests in Expedia or any other material assets, or that would render any such ownership illegal or would subject Mr. Diller or Liberty to any fines, penalties or material additional restrictions or limitations. In addition, for so long as the Consent Conditions apply, if Expedia's "total debt ratio" (as defined in the Governance Agreement ) equals or exceeds 4:1 over a twelve-month period, Expedia may not take any of the following actions without the prior approval of Liberty and/or Mr. Diller: o acquire or dispose of any assets, issue any debt or equity securities, repurchase any debt or equity securities, or incur indebtedness, if the aggregate value of such transaction or transactions (alone or in combination) during any six month period equals 10% or more of 2
Expedia's market capitalization; o voluntarily commence any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of Expedia or any material subsidiary of Expedia; o make any material amendments to the certificate of incorporation or bylaws of Expedia; o engage in any line of business other than online and offline travel services and products and related businesses, or other businesses engaged in by Expedia as of the date of determination; o adopt any stockholder rights plan that would adversely affect Liberty or Mr. Diller, as applicable; or o grant additional consent rights to a stockholder of Expedia. Preemptive Rights In the event that Expedia issues or proposes to issue any shares of common stock or Class B common stock (with certain limited exceptions) including shares issued upon exercise, conversion or exchange of options, warrants and convertible securities, Liberty will have preemptive rights that entitle it to purchase a number of common shares so that Liberty will maintain the identical ownership interest in Expedia that Liberty had immediately prior to such issuance or proposed issuance (subject to a cap). Any purchase by Liberty will be allocated between common stock and Class B common stock in the same proportion as the issuance or issuances giving rise to the preemptive right, except to the extent that Liberty opts to acquire shares of common stock in lieu of shares of Class B common stock. Registration Rights Liberty and Mr. Diller are entitled to customary, transferable registration rights with respect to common stock owned by them. Liberty is entitled to four demand registration rights and Mr. Diller is entitled to three demand registration rights. Expedia will pay the costs associated with such registrations (other than underwriting discounts, fees and commissions). Expedia will not be required to register shares of its common stock if a stockholder could sell the shares in the quantities proposed to be sold at such time in one transaction under Rule 144 of the Securities Act or under another comparable exemption from registration. Termination Generally, the Governance Agreement will terminate: o with respect to Liberty, at such time that Liberty beneficially owns equity securities representing less than 5% of the total equity securities of Expedia; and o with respect to Mr. Diller, at the later of (1) the date Mr. Diller ceases to be the chief executive officer of Expedia or becomes disabled and (2) the date Mr. Diller no longer holds a proxy to vote the shares of Liberty. 3
RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN IAC, MR. DILLER AND LIBERTY Mr. Diller is the Chairman and Senior Executive of Expedia. Mr. Diller and Liberty are parties to a Stockholders Agreement, dated as of August 9, 2005 (the "Stockholders Agreement"). Among other arrangements, under the terms of the Stockholders Agreement, Liberty grants to Mr. Diller an irrevocable proxy with respect to all Expedia securities beneficially owned by Liberty until such proxy terminates in accordance with the terms of the Stockholders Agreement. As a result of the arrangements contemplated by the Stockholders Agreement, Mr. Diller controls approximately 53% of the combined voting power of Expedia capital stock and can effectively control the outcome of all matters submitted to a vote or for the consent of Expedia's stockholders (other than with respect to the election by the holders of Expedia's common stock of 25% of the members of Expedia's Board of Directors and matters to which Delaware law requires a separate class vote). Expedia is subject to the Marketplace Rules of The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. (the "Marketplace Rules"). The Marketplace Rules exempt "Controlled Companies," or companies of which more than 50% of the voting power is held by an individual, group or another company, from certain requirements. Based on the arrangements described above, Expedia is relying on the exemption for Controlled Companies from all applicable Nasdaq requirements. EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT On August 12, 2005, the Company entered into an Employment Agreement with Mark S. Gunning, its Chief Financial Officer. The terms of the Employment Agreement provide that Mr. Gunning will receive an annual base salary of $325,000 per year and will be eligible to receive annual discretionary bonuses, with a target bonus of 50% of his annual base salary. Subject to the approval of the Expedia Compensation Committee, Mr. Gunning will be granted restricted stock units representing shares of common stock of Expedia valued at $500,000 pursuant to the Expedia, Inc. 2005 Stock and Annual Incentive Plan. Upon a change of control of Expedia, 100% of Mr. Gunning's restricted stock units will vest immediately. The term of the Employment Agreement is two years. If (1) the Company terminates Mr. Gunning's employment prior to the expiration of the term for any reason other than Mr. Gunning's death or disability or for cause or (2) Mr. Gunning terminates his employment for good reason, then the Company will continue to pay Mr. Gunning's annual base salary for the greater of twelve months and the end of the term, subject to a mitigation obligation by Mr. Gunning. A copy of the Employment Agreement is included as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. WARRANT AGREEMENTS On August 9, 2005, Expedia entered into Warrant Agreements in respect of its publicly listed warrant securities (traded on the Nasdaq National Market under the ticker symbols EXPEW and EXPEZ, respectively) with Bank of New York and Mellon Investor Services LLC. 4
EXPEW Warrants EXPEW Warrants have been issued under a warrant agreement between Expedia and The Bank of New York, as warrant agent. Each EXPEW Warrant entitles its holder to purchase one half of one share of Expedia common stock at an exercise price equal to $15.61 per warrant. The exercise price must be paid in cash. Each EXPEW Warrant may be exercised on any business day on or prior to February 4, 2009. Any EXPEW Warrant not exercised before that date will become void, and all rights of the holder of the EXPEW Warrant will cease. Holders of EXPEW Warrants will not be entitled, by virtue of being such holders, to any rights of holders of Expedia common stock until they exercise their warrants. The EXPEW Warrants are not subject to redemption. The number of shares of Expedia common stock issuable upon exercise of the EXPEW Warrants and the exercise price of the EXPEW Warrants will be subject to adjustment from time to time upon the occurrence of any of the following events: any stock split; any stock consolidation, combination or subdivision; any stock dividend or other distribution; and any repurchase, reclassification, recapitalization or reorganization and certain distributions of rights, warrants or evidences of indebtedness or assets. Expedia will not issue fractional shares of Expedia common stock upon exercise of an EXPEW Warrant. Instead of issuing a fractional share of Expedia common stock which would otherwise be deliverable upon the exercise of an EXPEW Warrant, Expedia will pay the holder of such EXPEW Warrant an amount in cash based on the closing price of Expedia common stock as of the exercise date of the EXPEW Warrant. Expedia will keep in reserve at all times before the expiration date of the EXPEW Warrants sufficient authorized but unissued shares of Expedia common stock for issuance in the event of exercises by the holders of EXPEW Warrants. In addition, the EXPEW Warrants and any shares of Expedia common stock issued upon exercise of the EXPEW Warrants have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Stockholder EXPEZ Warrants Certain EXPEZ Warrants (the "Stockholder EXPEZ Warrants") have been issued under a stockholder equity warrant agreement between Expedia and Mellon Investor Services LLC, as warrant agent. Each Stockholder EXPEZ Warrant entitles its holder to purchase 0.969375 shares of Expedia common stock at an exercise price equal to $11.56 per warrant. The exercise price must be paid in cash. Each Stockholder EXPEZ Warrant may be exercised on any business day on or prior to February 4, 2009. Any Stockholder EXPEZ Warrant not exercised before that date will become void, and all rights of the holder of the Stockholder EXPEZ Warrant will cease. Holders of Stockholder EXPEZ Warrants will not be entitled, by virtue of being such holders, to any rights of holders of Expedia common stock until they exercise their warrants. The Stockholder EXPEZ Warrants are not subject to redemption. The number of shares of Expedia common stock issuable upon exercise of the Stockholder EXPEZ Warrants and the exercise price of the Stockholder EXPEZ Warrants will be 5
subject to adjustment from time to time upon the occurrence of any of the following events: any stock split; any stock consolidation, combination or subdivision; any stock dividend or other distribution; and any repurchase, reclassification, recapitalization or reorganization; and certain distributions of rights, warrants or evidences of indebtedness or assets. Expedia will not issue fractional shares of Expedia common stock upon exercise of a Stockholder EXPEZ Warrant. Instead of issuing a fractional share of Expedia common stock which would otherwise be deliverable upon the exercise of a Stockholder EXPEZ Warrant, Expedia will pay the holder of such Stockholder EXPEZ Warrant an amount in cash based on the closing price of Expedia common stock as of the exercise date of the Stockholder EXPEZ Warrant. Expedia will keep in reserve at all times before the expiration date of the Stockholder EXPEZ Warrants sufficient authorized but unissued shares of Expedia common stock for issuance in the event of exercises by the holders of Stockholder EXPEZ Warrants. In addition, the Stockholder EXPEZ Warrants and any shares of Expedia common stock issued upon exercise of the Stockholder EXPEZ Warrants have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Employee EXPEZ Warrants Certain EXPEZ Warrants (the "Employee EXPEZ Warrants") have been issued under an optionholder equity warrant agreement between Expedia and Mellon Investor Services LLC, as warrant agent. Except with respect to vesting (including transferability prior to vesting), as described below, and applicable withholding taxes, the Employee EXPEZ Warrants are identical in all material respects to the Stockholder EXPEZ Warrants described above. The Employee EXPEZ Warrants will be subject to the same vesting schedule as the stock options in respect of which such Employee EXPEZ Warrants were issued. The Employee EXPEZ Warrants will be forfeited and will never become exercisable or transferable if a stock option related to the Employee EXPEZ Warrant never vests. The Employee EXPEZ Warrants will not be subject to redemption. Expedia will keep in reserve at all times before the expiration date of the Employee EXPEZ Warrants sufficient authorized but unissued shares of Expedia common stock for issuance in the event of exercises by the holders of vested Employee EXPEZ Warrants. In addition, the Employee EXPEZ Warrants and any shares of Expedia common stock issued upon exercise of the Employee EXPEZ Warrants have been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. EXPEDIA, INC. 2005 STOCK AND ANNUAL INCENTIVE PLAN On August 8, 2005, IAC approved the Expedia, Inc. 2005 Stock and Annual Incentive Plan (the "2005 Incentive Plan"), which became effective on August 9, 2005, in its capacity (at such time) as sole stockholder of Expedia. A summary of certain important features of the 2005 Incentive Plan can be found in the Registration Statement. The section of the Registration Statement entitled "Expedia, Inc. 2005 Stock and Annual Incentive Plan" beginning on page 119 of the Registration Statement is incorporated herein by reference. The foregoing description of the 2005 Incentive Plan is 6
qualified in its entirety by reference to the copy of the plan that was filed as Exhibit 4.6 of Expedia's Post-Effective Amendment No. 1 on Form S-8 to the Registration Statement, which is incorporated herein by reference. In connection with the Spin-Off, non-employee members of Expedia's Board of Directors, including A. George "Skip" Battle, Jonathan L. Dolgen, Peter M. Kern and David Goldhill were each awarded 7,500 restricted stock units. EMPLOYMENT SEPARATION AGREEMENT On August 12, 2005, the Company entered into a Separation Agreement with Chris Bellairs, its former Chief Financial Officer. The terms of the Separation Agreement provide that the Company will continue to pay Mr. Bellairs his former annual base salary of $275,000 and pay for his COBRA health insurance coverage for a period of twelve months; provided, that such payments will be offset by any amount earned by Mr. Bellairs from another employer. On or around the date on which the Company next pays bonuses to its employees generally (currently anticipated to be in February 2006), the Company will pay Mr. Bellairs $104,192, representing a pro-rated portion of his target 2005 bonus. In addition, Mr. Bellairs was granted accelerated vesting of 8,078 restricted stock units on August 12, 2005, which represents the restricted stock units that would have vested in the one-year period following his date of termination of employment. A copy of the Separation Agreement is included as Exhibit 10.2 to this Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference. EXPEDIA, INC. DIRECTOR DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN On August 8, 2005, IAC approved the Expedia, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the "Director Deferred Compensation Plan") in its capacity (at such time) as sole stockholder of Expedia. Effective August 9, 2005, each director of Expedia who is not an employee of Expedia or any of its businesses may defer all or a portion of their annual retainer and meeting fees. Eligible directors who defer their directors' fees can elect to have such deferred fees applied to the purchase of share units, representing the number of shares of Expedia common stock that could have been purchased on the relevant date, or credited to a cash fund. If any dividends are paid on Expedia common stock, dividend equivalents will be credited on the share units. The foregoing description of the Director Deferred Compensation Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the copy of the plan that was filed as Exhibit 10.6 to the Registration Statement and that is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 2.01. COMPLETION OF ACQUISITION OF ASSETS. Item 1.01 of this Form 8-K is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 5.01 CHANGE IN CONTROL OF THE REGISTRANT. The section of this Form 8-K under Item 1.01 entitled "Relationship Between IAC, Mr. Diller and Liberty" is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 5.02. DEPARTURE OF DIRECTORS OR PRINCIPAL OFFICERS; ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT OF PRINCIPAL OFFICERS. 7
Item 1.01 of this Form 8-K is incorporated herein by reference. On August 9, 2005, and in connection with the Spin-Off, Messrs. Thomas J. McInerney and Gregory R. Blatt (both of whom are employees of IAC) resigned as members of Expedia's Board of Directors. On August 9, 2005, immediately preceding the completion of the Spin-Off, the following persons were elected as members of Expedia's Board of Directors: Barry Diller, Dara Khosrowshahi, Victor A. Kaufman, A. George "Skip" Battle, Robert R. Bennett, Jonathan Dolgen, David Goldhill, Peter Kern and John C. Malone. The section of the Registration Statement entitled "Information about Expedia after the Spin-Off - Expedia Management - Expedia Board of Directors and Executive Officers" beginning on page 110 of the Registration Statement is incorporated herein by reference. The section of the Registration Statement entitled "Relationship Between IAC and Expedia after the Spin-Off - Commercial Arrangements" beginning on page 50 of the Registration Statement is incorporated herein by reference. Item 5.02 of this Form 8-K is qualified in its entirety by reference to the "Summary of Expedia, Inc. Non-Employee Director Compensation Arrangements" that was filed as Exhibit 10.7 to the Registration Statement and is incorporated herein by reference. ITEM 5.03. AMENDMENTS TO ARTICLES OF INCORPORATION OR BYLAWS. Prior to the completion of the Spin-Off, IAC was the sole stockholder of Expedia. In connection with the Spin-Off, Expedia amended and restated its Certificate of Incorporation (effective August 8, 2005) and amended and restated its Bylaws (effective August 9, 2005), including the adoption of the Certificate of Designations for Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock of Expedia (effective August 9, 2005). The following is a description of the material terms of Expedia capital stock. The following description is not meant to be complete and is qualified by reference to Expedia's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation, Certificate of Designations for Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, and Amended and Restated Bylaws, which are filed as Exhibits 3.1, 3.2 and 3.3, respectively, to this Form 8-K and are incorporated herein by reference. EXPEDIA COMMON STOCK In general, the holders of Expedia common stock will vote together as a single class with the holders of Expedia Class B common stock and Expedia Series A preferred stock on all matters, including the election of directors; provided, however, that the holders of Expedia common stock, acting as a single class, are entitled to elect twenty-five percent (25%) of the total number of directors, rounded up to the next whole number in the event of a fraction. Each outstanding share of Expedia common stock entitles the holder to one vote when voting separately as a class, and one vote when voting together as a single group with the holders of Expedia Class B common stock and Expedia Series A preferred stock. The Expedia Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation does not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors. Subject to any preferential rights of any outstanding series of Expedia preferred stock created by the Expedia Board of Directors from time to time, the holders of Expedia common stock will be entitled, share for share with the holders of the Expedia Class B common stock, to such dividends as may be declared from time to time by the Expedia Board of Directors from funds legally available for the payment of dividends, and, upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, will be entitled to 8
receive pro rata, share for share with the holders of the Expedia Class B common stock, all assets available for distribution after payment of a proper amount to the holders of any series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. EXPEDIA CLASS B COMMON STOCK In general, the holders of Class B common stock will vote together as a single class with the holders of Expedia common stock and Expedia Series A preferred stock on all matters, including the election of directors. The holders of Expedia Class B common stock are entitled to one vote when voting separately as a class, and ten votes when voting together as a single group with the holders of Expedia common stock and Expedia Series A preferred stock. The Expedia Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation does not provide for cumulative voting in the election of directors. Subject to any preferential rights of any outstanding series of Expedia preferred stock created by the Expedia Board of Directors from time to time, the holders of Expedia Class B common stock are entitled, share for share with the holders of the Expedia common stock, to such dividends as may be declared from time to time by the Expedia Board of Directors from funds legally available for the payment of dividends, and, upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up, are entitled to receive pro rata, share for share with the holders of the Expedia common stock, all assets available for distribution after payment of a proper amount to the holders of any series of preferred stock that may be issued in the future. EXPEDIA PREFERRED STOCK Expedia's Board of Directors has the authority to designate, by resolution, the powers, preferences, rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions of the preferred stock without any further vote or action by the stockholders. Any shares of preferred stock so issued would have priority over shares of Expedia common stock and shares of Expedia Class B common stock with respect to dividend or liquidation rights or both. Expedia has outstanding approximately 850 shares of Expedia preferred stock, par value $0.001 per share, "Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock," each having a $22.23 face value and a maturity date of 2022. Each share of Expedia Series A preferred stock is convertible, at the option of the holder at any time, into that number of shares of Expedia common stock equal to the quotient obtained by dividing $22.23 by the conversion price per share of Expedia common stock. The conversion price is initially equal to $30.01 per share of Expedia common stock and is subject to downward adjustment if the price of Expedia common stock exceeds $31.22 at the time of conversion pursuant to a formula set forth in the certificate of designation for the Expedia Series A preferred stock. Shares of Expedia Series A preferred stock may be put to Expedia on the fifth, seventh, tenth and fifteenth anniversary of February 4, 2002 for cash or stock at Expedia's option. Expedia also has the right to redeem the shares of Expedia Series A preferred stock for cash or stock commencing on the tenth anniversary of February 4, 2002. In the event of a voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of Expedia, holders of Expedia Series A preferred stock will be entitled to receive, in preference to any holder of Expedia common stock or Expedia Class B common stock, an amount per share equal to all accrued and unpaid dividends plus the greater of (a) face value, or (b) the liquidating distribution that would be received had such holder converted the Expedia Series A preferred stock into Expedia common stock immediately prior to the liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of Expedia. 9
EFFECT OF DELAWARE ANTI-TAKEOVER STATUTE Expedia is subject to Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law ("DCGL"), which regulates corporate acquisitions. Section 203 generally prevents corporations from engaging in a business combination with any interested stockholder for three years following the date that the stockholder became an interested stockholder, unless that business combination has been approved in one of a number of specific ways. For purposes of Section 203, a "business combination" includes, among other things, a merger or consolidation involving Expedia and the interested stockholder and a sale of more than 10% of Expedia's assets. In general, the anti-takeover law defines an "interested stockholder" as any entity or person beneficially owning 15% or more of a company's outstanding voting stock and any entity or person affiliated with or controlling or controlled by that entity or person. A Delaware corporation may "opt out" of Section 203 with an express provision in its original certificate of incorporation or an express provision in its certificate of incorporation or bylaws resulting from amendments approved by holders of at least a majority of a corporation's outstanding voting shares. Expedia has not "opted out" of the provisions of Section 203. ACTION BY WRITTEN CONSENT Under the DGCL, unless a company's certificate of incorporation expressly prohibits action by the written consent of stockholders, any action required or permitted to be taken by its stockholders at a duly called annual or special meeting may be taken by a consent in writing executed by stockholders possessing the requisite votes for the action to be taken. Expedia's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation does not expressly prohibit action by the written consent of stockholders. As a result, Mr. Diller, who currently controls a majority of the outstanding total voting power of Expedia, will be able to take any action to be taken by stockholders without the necessity of holding a stockholders meeting (other than with respect to the election by the holders of shares of Expedia common stock of 25% of the members of Expedia's Board of Directors and certain matters as to which a separate class vote of the holders of shares of Expedia common stock or Expedia Series A preferred stock is required). REMOVAL OF DIRECTORS Expedia's Amended and Restated Bylaws provide that a director may be removed either with or without cause, by the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting power of shares then entitled to vote of the class or classes that elected such director. FILLING VACANCIES OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS Expedia's Amended and Restated Bylaws permit holders of a majority of the voting power of outstanding shares entitled to vote on a particular directorship to fill vacancies with respect to that directorship. CALLING OF SPECIAL MEETINGS OF STOCKHOLDERS Expedia's Amended and Restated Bylaws provide that a special meeting of stockholders may be called by Expedia's Chairman of the Board of Directors or by a majority of Expedia's Board of Directors. 10
REMOVAL OF CHAIRMAN Expedia's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation provides that the Chairman of the Board of Directors may only be removed without cause by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the entire Board of Directors. In addition, the Expedia Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation requires a supermajority (80%) vote of each of the Board of Directors and the voting power of the stockholders voting as a single class to amend or repeal the foregoing provision. CORPORATE OPPORTUNITY The Expedia Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation generally provides that no officer or director of Expedia who is also an officer or director of IAC will be liable to Expedia or its stockholders for breach of any fiduciary duty by reason of the fact that any such individual directs a corporate opportunity to IAC instead of Expedia, or does not communicate information regarding a corporate opportunity to Expedia that the officer or director has directed to IAC. ITEM 9.01. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS Item 1.01 of this Form 8-K is incorporated herein by reference. Financial statements required by Item 9.01 relating to the Spin-Off will be filed by later amendment to this Form 8-K, as permitted under Item 9.01(a)(4) of Form 8-K. The Exhibit Index filed herewith is incorporated herein by reference. 11
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. EXPEDIA, INC. Date: August 15, 2005 By: /s/ KEENAN M. CONDER ------------------------------ Name: Keenan M. Conder Title: Senior Vice President and General Counsel 12
EXHIBIT INDEX EXHIBIT NO. DESCRIPTION 3.1 Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Expedia, Inc. 3.2 Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock Certificate of Designation 3.3 Amended and Restated Bylaws of Expedia, Inc. 10.1 Employment Agreement by and between Mark Gunning and Expedia, Inc., effective as of July 14, 2005 10.2 Separation Agreement by and between Chris Bellairs and Expedia, Inc., effective as of August 12, 2005 10.3 Expedia, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of Expedia, Inc.'s Registration Statement on Form S-4, as amended (File No. 333-124303-01), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 13, 2005) 10.4 Expedia, Inc. 2005 Stock and Annual Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 of Expedia Registration Statement on Form S-4, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 8, 2005 (File No. 333-124303-01)) 10.5 Summary of Expedia, Inc. Non-Employee Director Compensation Arrangements (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 of Expedia, Inc.'s Registration Statement on Form S-4, as amended (File No. 333-124303-01), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on June 13, 2005)

EXHIBIT 3.1 AMENDED AND RESTATED CERTIFICATE OF INCORPORATION OF EXPEDIA, INC. Expedia, Inc. (hereinafter called the "CORPORATION"), a corporation organized and existing under and by virtue of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, does hereby certify: 1. The name of the corporation is: Expedia, Inc. The original Certificate of Incorporation was filed with the Secretary of State of the State of Delaware on April 18, 2005. 2. This Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation has been duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation and by its sole stockholder in accordance with the applicable provisions of Sections 228, 242 and 245 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. 3. This Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation restates and integrates and amends the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation in its entirety. The text of the Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation is hereby amended and restated to read in its entirety as follows: ARTICLE I The name of the Corporation is Expedia, Inc. ARTICLE II The address of the Corporation's registered office in the State of Delaware is 160 Greentree Drive, Suite 101, Dover, Delaware 19904. The name of the registered agent at such address is National Registered Agents, Inc. ARTICLE III The purpose of the Corporation is to engage in any lawful act or activity for which a corporation may be organized under the Delaware General Corporation Law. ARTICLE IV The Corporation shall have the authority to issue one billion six hundred million (1,600,000,000) shares of $0.001 par value Common Stock, four hundred million (400,000,000) shares of $0.001 par value Class B Common Stock, and one hundred million (100,000,000) shares of $0.001 par value Preferred Stock. A statement of the designations of each class and the powers, preferences and rights, and qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof is as follows:
A. COMMON STOCK (1) The holders of the Common Stock shall be entitled to receive, share for share with the holders of shares of Class B Common Stock, such dividends if, as and when declared from time to time by the Board of Directors. (2) In the event of the voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, distribution of assets or winding-up of the Corporation, the holders of the Common Stock shall be entitled to receive, share for share with the holders of shares of Class B Common Stock, all the assets of the Corporation of whatever kind available for distribution to Stockholders, after the rights of the holders of the Preferred Stock have been satisfied. (3) Each holder of Common Stock shall be entitled to vote one vote for each share of Common Stock held as of the applicable date on any matter that is submitted to a vote or to the consent of the Stockholders of the Corporation. Except as otherwise provided herein or by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the holders of Common Stock and the holders of Class B Common Stock shall at all times vote on all matters (including the election of directors) together as one class. B. CLASS B COMMON STOCK (1) The holders of the Class B Common Stock shall be entitled to receive, share for share with the holders of shares of Common Stock, such dividends if, as and when declared from time to time by the Board of Directors. (2) In the event of the voluntary or involuntary liquidation, dissolution, distribution of assets or winding-up of the Corporation, the holders of the Class B Common Stock shall be entitled to receive, share for share with the holders of shares of Common Stock, all the assets of the Corporation of whatever kind available for distribution to Stockholders, after the rights of the holders of the Preferred Stock have been satisfied. (3) Each holder of Class B Common Stock shall be entitled to vote ten votes for each share of Class B Common Stock held as of the applicable date on any matter that is submitted to a vote or to the consent of the Stockholders of the Corporation. Except as otherwise provided herein or by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the holders of Common Stock and the holders of Class B Common Stock shall at all times vote on all matters (including the election of directors) together as one class. C. OTHER MATTERS AFFECTING SHAREHOLDERS OF COMMON STOCK AND CLASS B COMMON STOCK (1) In no event shall any stock dividends or stock splits or combinations of stock be declared or made on Common Stock or Class B Common Stock unless the shares of Common Stock and Class B Common Stock at the time outstanding are treated equally and identically, except that such dividends or stock splits or combinations shall be made in respect of shares of Common Stock and Class B Common Stock in the form of shares of Common Stock or Class B Common Stock, respectively. 2
(2) Shares of Class B Common Stock shall be convertible into shares of the Common Stock of the Corporation at the option of the holder thereof at any time on a share for share basis. Such conversion ratio shall in all events be equitably preserved in the event of any recapitalization of the Corporation by means of a stock dividend on, or a stock split or combination of, outstanding Common Stock or Class B Common Stock, or in the event of any merger, consolidation or other reorganization of the Corporation with another corporation. (3) Upon the conversion of Class B Common Stock into shares of Common Stock, said shares of Class B Common Stock shall be retired and shall not be subject to reissue. (4) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Certificate of Incorporation, the holders of Common Stock, acting as a single class, shall be entitled to elect twenty-five percent (25%) of the total number of directors, and in the event that twenty-five percent (25%) of the total number of directors shall result in a fraction of a director, then the holders of the Common Stock, acting as a single class, shall be entitled to elect the next higher whole number of directors. D. PREFERRED STOCK The Board of Directors shall, by resolution, designate the powers, preferences, rights and qualifications, limitations and restrictions of the Preferred Stock. Pursuant to subsection 242(b) of the Delaware General Corporation Law, the number of authorized shares of Preferred Stock or any class or series thereof may be increased or decreased (but not below the number of shares thereof then outstanding) by the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the voting power of the Corporation entitled to vote irrespective of such subsection. ARTICLE V The Board of Directors of the Corporation is expressly authorized to make, alter or repeal By-Laws of the Corporation, but the Stockholders may make additional By-Laws and may alter or repeal any By-Law whether adopted by them or otherwise. ARTICLE VI Elections of directors need not be by written ballot except and to the extent provided in the By-Laws of the Corporation. ARTICLE VII The Corporation is to have perpetual existence. ARTICLE VIII Each person who is or was or had agreed to become a director or officer of the Corporation, or each such person who is or was serving or who had agreed to serve at the request of the Board of Directors or an officer of the Corporation as an employee or agent of the Corporation or as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise (including the heirs, executors, administrators or estate of such person), shall be indemnified by the Corporation, in accordance with the By-Laws of the Corporation, to the full extent permitted from time to time by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as the 3
same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment) or any other applicable laws as presently or hereinafter in effect. Without limiting the generality or the effect of the foregoing, the Corporation may enter into one or more agreements with any person that provide for indemnification greater or different than that provided in this Article VIII. Any amendment or repeal of this Article VIII shall not adversely affect any right or protection existing hereunder immediately prior to such amendment or repeal. ARTICLE IX A director of the Corporation shall not be personally liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for monetary damages for breach of fiduciary duty as a director, except for liability (i) for any breach of the director's duty of loyalty to the Corporation or its stockholders, (ii) for acts or omissions not in good faith or which involve intentional misconduct or a knowing violation of law, (iii) under Section 174 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, or (iv) for any transaction from which the director derived an improper personal benefit. Any amendment or repeal of this Article IX shall not adversely affect any right or protection of a director of the Corporation existing immediately prior to such amendment or repeal. The liability of a director shall be further eliminated or limited to the full extent permitted by Delaware law, as it may hereafter be amended. ARTICLE X Meetings of stockholders may be held within or without the State of Delaware, as determined by the Board of Directors. The books of the Corporation may be kept (subject to any provision contained in the Delaware General Corporation Law) outside the State of Delaware at such place or places as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors or in the By-Laws of the Corporation. ARTICLE XI The Corporation reserves the right to amend, alter, change or repeal any provision contained in this Certificate of Incorporation, in the manner now or hereafter prescribed by the Delaware General Corporation Law, and all rights conferred upon stockholders herein are granted subject to this reservation except that under no circumstances may such amendment be adopted except as prescribed by Article IV, above, and provided further that the rights of the Class B Common Stock may not be amended, altered, changed or repealed without the approval of the holders of the requisite number of said shares of Class B Common Stock. ARTICLE XII The number of directors of the Corporation shall be such number as shall be determined from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors. The Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Corporation may only be removed without cause by the affirmative vote of at least 80% of the entire Board of Directors. The provisions of this paragraph may not be amended, altered, changed or repealed, or any provision inconsistent therewith adopted, without the approval of at least (i) 80% of the entire Board of 4
Directors and (ii) 80% of the voting power of the Corporation's outstanding voting securities, voting together as a single class. This paragraph shall be of no force and effect following such time as the Chairman of the Board of Directors as of August 9, 2005 ceases to be Chairman of the Board of Directors pursuant to the terms of this paragraph and the Stockholders Agreement dated as of August 9, 2005 between Liberty Media Corporation and Barry Diller (the "Stockholders Agreement"). This paragraph shall only apply with respect to a removal of the Chairman of the Board of Directors without Cause as such term is defined in the Stockholders Agreement. ARTICLE XIII A. COMPETITION AND CORPORATE OPPORTUNITIES To the extent provided in the following sentence, the Corporation renounces any interest or expectancy of the Corporation or any of its Affiliated Companies in, or in being offered an opportunity to participate in, any Dual Opportunity about which a Dual Role Person acquires knowledge. A Dual Role Person shall have no duty to communicate or offer to the Corporation or any of its Affiliated Companies any Dual Opportunity that such Dual Role Person has communicated or offered to IAC, shall not be prohibited from communicating or offering any Dual Opportunity to IAC, and shall not be liable to the Corporation or its stockholders for breach of any fiduciary duty as a stockholder, director or officer of the Corporation, as the case may be, resulting from (i) the failure to communicate or offer to the Corporation or any of its Affiliated Companies any Dual Opportunity that such Dual Role Person has communicated or offered to IAC or (ii) the communication or offer to IAC of any Dual Opportunity, so long as (x) the Dual Opportunity does not become known to the Dual Role Person in his or her capacity as a director or officer of the Corporation, and (y) the Dual Opportunity is not presented by the Dual Role Person to any party other than IAC and the Dual Role Person does not pursue the Dual Opportunity individually. B. CERTAIN MATTERS DEEMED NOT CORPORATE OPPORTUNITIES In addition to and notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article XIII, the Corporation renounces any interest or expectancy of the Corporation or any of its Affiliated Companies in, or in being offered an opportunity to participate in, any business opportunity that the Corporation is not financially able or contractually permitted or legally able to undertake. Moreover, nothing in this Article XIII shall amend or modify in any respect any written contractual agreement between IAC on the one hand and the Corporation or any of its Affiliated Companies on the other hand. C. CERTAIN DEFINITIONS For purposes of this Article XIII: "Affiliate" means with respect to any Person, any other Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by or under common control with such Person. For purposes of the foregoing definition, the term "controls," "is controlled by," or "is under common control with" means the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of a Person, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise. "Affiliated Company" means (i) with respect to the Corporation, any Person controlled by the Corporation and (ii) with respect to IAC, any Person controlled by IAC. 5
"Dual Opportunity" means any potential transaction or matter which may be a corporate opportunity for both IAC/InterActiveCorp or its Affiliated Companies ("IAC"), on the one hand, and the Corporation or any of its Affiliated Companies, on the other hand. "Dual Role Person" means any individual who is an officer or director of both the Corporation and IAC. "Person" means an individual, a partnership, a corporation, a limited liability company, an association, a joint stock company, a trust, a joint venture, an unincorporated organization and a governmental entity or any department, agency or political subdivision thereof. D. TERMINATION The provisions of this Article XIII shall have no further force or effect at such time as (i) the Corporation and IAC are no longer Affiliates and (ii) none of the directors and/or officers of IAC serve as directors and/or officers of the Corporation and its Affiliated Companies; provided, however, that any such termination shall not terminate the effect of such provisions with respect to any agreement, arrangement or other understanding between the Corporation or an Affiliated Company thereof on the one hand, and IAC, on the other hand, that was entered into before such time or any transaction entered into in the performance of such agreement, arrangement or other understanding, whether entered into before or after such time. E. DEEMED NOTICE Any person or entity purchasing or otherwise acquiring or obtaining any interest in any capital stock of the Corporation shall be deemed to have notice and to have consented to the provisions of this Article XIII. F. SEVERABILITY The invalidity or unenforceability of any particular provision, or part of any provision, of this Article XIII shall not affect the other provisions or parts hereof, and this Article XIII shall be construed in all respects as if such invalid or unenforceable provisions or parts were omitted. * * * * * * 6
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Expedia, Inc. has caused this Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation to be duly executed and acknowledged by its duly authorized officer this 8th day of August, 2005. EXPEDIA, INC. By: /S/ Keenan M. Conder ----------------------------- Name: Keenan M. Conder Title: Senior Vice President 7

EXHIBIT 3.2 CERTIFICATE OF DESIGNATIONS OF SERIES A CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK OF EXPEDIA, INC. (PURSUANT TO SECTION 151 OF THE DELAWARE GENERAL CORPORATION LAW) - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- Expedia, Inc., a corporation organized and existing under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware (hereinafter called the "CORPORATION"), hereby certifies that the following resolution was duly adopted by the Board of Directors of the Corporation as required by Section 151 of the General Corporation Law: RESOLVED, that pursuant to the authority granted to and vested in the Board of Directors of the Corporation (hereinafter called the "BOARD OF DIRECTORS" or the "BOARD") in accordance with the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, the Board of Directors hereby creates a series of preferred stock, par value $0.001 per share, of the Corporation (the "PREFERRED STOCK"), and hereby states the designation and number of shares, and fixes the relative rights, preferences, and limitations thereof as follows: Section 1. DESIGNATION AND AMOUNT. The designation of such series of Preferred Stock authorized by this resolution shall be the Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock (the "SERIES A CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK"). The number of shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall be 1,000. The face value of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall be $22.23 (the "FACE VALUE"). Section 2. RANK AND TERM. All shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall rank prior, both as to payment of dividends and as to distributions of assets upon liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, to all of the now or hereafter issued classes of common stock, $0.001 par value per share, of the Corporation (the "COMMON STOCK"). No other preferred stock of the Corporation shall rank senior to the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock with respect to payment upon liquidation or payment of dividends without the consent of the holders of record of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (the "HOLDERS") representing a majority of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock then outstanding. At the close of business on February 4, 2022 (the "EXPIRATION DATE"), without any further action on the part of the Corporation or any Holder, but subject to payment of all accrued and unpaid dividends on the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, all then outstanding shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall automatically be converted to common stock in conformance
with the provisions of Section 6 and no shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall thereafter be issued or outstanding. Section 3. DIVIDENDS. The Holders shall be entitled to receive, whether or not dividends are declared by the Board out of funds at the time legally available therefor, annual dividends in the amount of (a) 1.99% of the Face Value per annum per share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, plus (b) the excess, if any, of the value of any dividends paid with respect to the number of shares of Common Stock into which each outstanding share of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock is then convertible over the amount described in clause (a), and no more. Dividends on the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall be fully cumulative, shall accrue without interest from the date of first issuance, and shall be payable quarterly in arrears on February 15, May 15, August 15 and November 15 (each, a "DIVIDEND DATE") of each year (except that if any such date is a Saturday, Sunday or Legal Holiday, then such dividend shall be payable on the next succeeding day that is not a Saturday, Sunday or Legal Holiday) to holders of record as they appear on the stock transfer books of the Corporation on the close of business on the fifth Business Day prior to such Dividend Date, it being understood that the first dividend payment hereunder shall be made on November 15, 2005 and shall be made in respect of a full quarterly dividend period. All dividends on the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock are payable, at the Corporation's option, in cash, shares of Common Stock or any combination thereof, with the Common Stock valued at the Market Price (as defined below) as of the applicable Dividend Date. For purposes hereof, the term "LEGAL HOLIDAY" shall mean any day on which banking institutions are authorized to close in New York, New York. Dividends on account of arrears for any past dividend period may be declared and paid at any time, without reference to any regular dividend payment date. The amount of dividends payable per share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock with respect to the amounts determined pursuant to clause (a) of this paragraph for each quarterly dividend period shall be computed by dividing the annual amount determined pursuant to such clause (a) by four. The amount of dividends payable for the initial dividend period and any period shorter than a full quarterly dividend period shall be computed on the basis of the number of days actually elapsed of a 360-day year, provided that in no event shall the dividend amount for any period shorter than a full quarterly dividend period be greater than the full quarterly dividend amount. If the Corporation elects to pay all or any portion of a dividend in shares of Common Stock, the number of shares of Common Stock to be delivered by the Corporation for each share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock held by a Holder shall equal (x) the cash value of the dividend (or portion of a dividend) to be paid with Common Stock divided by (y) the Market Price. The "MARKET PRICE" shall be equal to the average of the daily Closing Prices (as defined below) of the Common Stock for the 10 consecutive Trading Days (as defined below) ending on the second Trading Day immediately preceding the applicable Dividend Date (or other date with respect to which the Market Price is to be determined). The "CLOSING PRICE" for each Trading Day shall be the last reported sales price regular way, during regular trading hours, or, in case no such reported sales takes place on such day, the average of the closing bid and asked prices regular way, during regular trading hours, for such day, in each case on The Nasdaq Stock Market or, if not listed or quoted on such market, on the principal national securities exchange on which the shares of Common Stock are listed or admitted to trading or, if not listed or admitted to trading on a national securities exchange, the last sale price regular way for the Common Stock as published by the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation -2-
System ("NASDAQ"), or if such last sale price is not so published by NASDAQ or if no such sale takes place on such day, the mean between the closing bid and asked prices for the Common Stock as published by NASDAQ. If the shares of Common Stock are not listed or admitted to trading on a national securities exchange or quoted by NASDAQ, the Market Price shall be determined in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Corporation or, if such determination cannot be made, by a nationally recognized independent investment banking firm selected in good faith by the Board of Directors of the Corporation. "TRADING DAY" shall mean a day on which the securities exchange utilized for the purpose of calculating the Market Price shall be open for business or, if the shares of Common Stock shall not be listed on such exchange for such period, a day with respect to which quotations of the character referred to in the next preceding sentence shall be reported. In lieu of any fractional share of Common Stock which would otherwise be issued in payment for a dividend on Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, the Corporation shall pay a cash adjustment in respect of such fractional interest in an amount in cash (computed to the nearest cent) equal to the Market Price multiplied by the fractional interest that otherwise would have been deliverable as a dividend on such Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. On each Dividend Date all dividends which shall have accrued on each share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding on such Dividend Date shall accumulate and be deemed to become "due" whether or not there shall be funds legally available for the payment thereof. Any dividend which shall not be paid on the Dividend Date on which it shall become due shall be deemed to be "past due" until such dividend shall be paid or until the share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock with respect to which such dividend became due shall no longer be outstanding, whichever is the earlier to occur. No interest, sum of money in lieu of interest, or other property or securities shall be payable in respect of any dividend payment or payments which are past due. Dividends paid on shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock in an amount less than the total amount of such dividends at the time accumulated and payable on such shares shall be allocated PRO RATA on a share-by-share basis among all such shares at the time outstanding. No dividends shall be paid or declared and set apart for payment on the Corporation's Common Stock or on any class or series of the Corporation's capital stock ranking, as to dividends, on a parity with the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (the "PARITY DIVIDEND STOCK") for any period unless full cumulative dividends have been, or contemporaneously are, paid or declared and set apart for such payment on the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock for all dividend payment periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of such full cumulative dividends. No dividends shall be paid or declared and set apart for payment on the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock for any period unless cumulative dividends have been, or contemporaneously are, paid or declared and set apart for payment on the Parity Dividend Stock for all dividend periods terminating on or prior to the date of payment of such full cumulative dividends. When dividends are not paid in full upon the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and the Parity Dividend Stock, all dividends paid or declared and set aside for payment upon shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and the Parity Dividend Stock shall be paid or declared and set aside for payment PRO RATA so that the amount of dividends paid or declared and set aside for payment per share on the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and the Parity Dividend Stock shall in all cases bear to each other the same ratio that accrued and -3-
unpaid dividends per share on the shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and the Parity Dividend Stock bear to each other. Section 4. LIQUIDATION PREFERENCE. In the event of any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, the Holders shall be entitled to receive out of the assets of the Corporation, whether such assets are stated capital or surplus of any nature, an amount equal to the dividends accrued and unpaid thereon to the date of final distribution to such Holders, whether or not declared, without interest, plus a sum per share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock equal to the greater of (a) $22.23 and (b) the liquidating distribution that would be paid with respect to the number of shares of Common Stock into which a share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock is then convertible, and no more. Such final distribution on the shares of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall be made before any payment is made or assets are distributed to the holders of Common Stock or any other class or series of the Corporation's capital stock ranking junior as to liquidation rights to the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (the "JUNIOR LIQUIDATION STOCK"). In the event the assets of the Corporation available for distribution to stockholders upon any liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation, whether voluntary or involuntary, shall be insufficient to pay in full the amounts payable with respect to the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and any other class or series of the Corporation's capital stock which may hereafter be created having parity as to liquidation rights with the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (the "PARITY LIQUIDATION STOCK"), the Holders and the holders of the Parity Liquidation Stock shall share ratably in any distribution of assets of the Corporation in proportion to the full respective preferential amounts to which they are entitled (but only to the extent of such preferential amounts). After payment in full of the liquidation preferences of the shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, the Holders shall not be entitled to any further participation in any distribution of assets by the Corporation by virtue of their ownership of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. Except as set forth in Section 6(i), neither a consolidation, merger or other business combination of the Corporation with or into another corporation or other entity nor a sale or transfer of all or part of the Corporation's assets for cash, securities or other property or any combination thereof shall be considered a liquidation, dissolution or winding up of the Corporation for purposes of this Section 4 (unless in connection therewith the liquidation of the Corporation is specifically approved). A Holder shall not be entitled to receive any payment owed for such shares under this Section 4 until such Holder shall cause to be delivered to the Corporation (i) the certificate(s) representing such shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (or, in the event such certificate(s) have been lost or destroyed, an affidavit of the Holder of loss or destruction reasonably satisfactory to the Corporation as well as other support as reasonably requested by the Corporation) and (ii) transfer instrument(s) reasonably satisfactory to the Corporation and sufficient to transfer such shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to the Corporation free of any adverse interest. No interest shall accrue on any payment upon liquidation after the due date thereof. Section 5. REDEMPTION. (a) REDEMPTION AT THE OPTION OF THE CORPORATION. Commencing on the tenth anniversary of the Effective Time (for the purposes hereof, the "EFFECTIVE TIME" shall be February 4, 2002), the Corporation, at its option, may from time to time redeem all or a portion of (but if a portion, shares representing at least 25% of the originally -4-
issued aggregate Face Value, unless there shall remain outstanding less than 25% of such amount, in which case all outstanding shares may be redeemed) of the outstanding Series A Convertible Preferred Stock at a redemption price equal to the Face Value plus all dividends on the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock being redeemed that are accrued and unpaid thereon, whether or not declared or due, to the date fixed for redemption (the "REDEMPTION DATE"), such sum being hereinafter referred to as the "REDEMPTION PRICE". The Redemption Price may be paid in cash, shares of Common Stock or a combination thereof, at the option of the Corporation. If the Corporation elects to pay the Redemption Price in Common Stock, the number of shares of Common Stock to be paid per share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock being redeemed shall equal (x) the then-current Redemption Price of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (or portion thereof to be paid in shares of Common Stock), divided by (y) the Market Price as of the date of the notice for redemption described below. In case of the redemption pursuant to this Section 5(a) of less than all of the then outstanding Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, the shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall be redeemed pro rata or by lot or in such other manner as the Board of Directors may determine. Not more than 60 nor less than 20 days prior to the Redemption Date, notice by first class mail, postage prepaid, shall be given to each Holder of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to be redeemed, at such Holder's address as it shall appear upon the stock transfer books of the Corporation. Each such notice of redemption shall specify the Redemption Date, the Redemption Price, the place or places of payment, that payment will be made upon presentation and surrender of the certificate(s) evidencing the shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to be redeemed, that on and after the Redemption Date, dividends will cease to accrue on such shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to be redeemed, the then effective conversion price pursuant to Section 6 and that the right of holders to convert such shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to be redeemed shall terminate at the close of business on the Redemption Date (unless the Corporation defaults in the payment of the Redemption Price). Any notice that is mailed as provided in Section 13 shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, whether or not the Holder receives such notice; and failure to give such notice by mail, or any defect in such notice, to the Holders of any shares designated for redemption shall not affect the validity of the proceedings for the redemption of any other shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. On or after the Redemption Date as stated in such notice, each Holder of the shares called for redemption shall surrender the certificate evidencing such shares to the Corporation at the place designated in such notice and shall thereupon be entitled to receive payment of the Redemption Price as herein provided. If less than all the shares represented by any such surrendered certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares. If, on the Redemption Date, shares of Common Stock and/or funds, as the case may be, necessary for the redemption shall be available therefor and shall have been irrecoverably deposited or set aside, then, notwithstanding that the certificates evidencing any shares so called for redemption shall not have been surrendered the dividends with respect to the shares so called shall cease to accrue after the Redemption Date, the shares shall no longer be deemed outstanding, the Holders thereof shall cease to be Holders, and all rights whatsoever with respect to the shares so called for redemption (except the right of -5-
the Holders to receive payment of the Redemption Price as herein provided without interest upon surrender of their certificates therefor) shall terminate. At the close of business on the Redemption Date, each Holder of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock so redeemed (unless the Corporation defaults on its obligations to deliver shares of Common Stock or cash) shall be, without any further action, to the extent the Corporation elected to pay the Redemption Price in shares of Common Stock, deemed a holder of the number of shares, if any, of Common Stock for which such Series A Convertible Preferred Stock is redeemable, and, to the extent the Corporation elected to pay the Redemption Price in cash, entitled to receive payment of the Redemption Price in cash, without interest. The shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall not be subject to the operation of any purchase, retirement, mandatory redemption (except as specified in this Section) or sinking fund. The Holder of any shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock redeemed upon any exercise of the Corporation's redemption right shall not be entitled to receive payment of the Redemption Price for such shares until such Holder shall cause to be delivered to the place specified in the notice given with respect to such redemption (i) the certificate(s) representing such shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock redeemed (or, in the event such certificate(s) have been lost or destroyed, an affidavit of the Holder of loss or destruction reasonably satisfactory to the Corporation as well as other support as reasonably requested by the Corporation) and (ii) transfer instrument(s) reasonably satisfactory to the Corporation and sufficient to transfer such shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to the Corporation free of any adverse interest. No interest shall accrue on the Redemption Price of any share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock after its Redemption Date provided that the shares of Common Stock and/or funds sufficient for the redemption shall have been made available therefor and shall have been irrecoverably deposited or set aside. In the event that, prior to a Redemption Date, any shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall be converted into Common Stock pursuant to Section 6, then (i) the Corporation shall not have the right to redeem such shares and (ii) shares of Common Stock and any funds which shall have been deposited for the payment of the Redemption Price for such shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall be returned to the Corporation immediately after such conversion (subject to declared dividends payable to Holders on the record date for such dividends being so payable, to the extent set forth in Section 6 hereof, regardless of whether such shares are converted subsequent to such record date and prior to the related dividend payment date). (b) REDEMPTION AT THE OPTION OF THE HOLDER. During the 20 Trading Day period preceding each of the fifth, seventh, tenth and fifteenth anniversaries of the Effective Time (each such period, a "HOLDER'S REDEMPTION PERIOD"), a Holder may elect to cause the Corporation to redeem all or any of the shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock held by such Holder. The Corporation shall redeem each such share for the Face Value, plus all accrued and unpaid dividends whether or not declared through the applicable anniversary (the "HOLDER'S REDEMPTION CONSIDERATION"), for cash, shares of Common Stock or a combination thereof, at the Corporation's option. -6-
For any shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock that the Corporation elects to redeem for Common Stock, the amount of Common Stock to be paid per share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock so redeemed shall equal (x) the Holder's Redemption Consideration (or portion thereof to be paid in shares of Common Stock), divided by (y) the Market Price as of the applicable anniversary date. A Holder electing to redeem one or more shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall provide notice in accordance with Section 13 to the transfer agent designated by the Corporation for such purpose or, if there be none, to the principal business offices of the Corporation (the "HOLDER'S NOTICE"), postmarked (if not hand delivered) or received by the transfer agent or principal business offices of the Corporation, as applicable (if hand delivered), on a date within the applicable Holder's Redemption Period. Any Holder's Notice that is mailed as herein provided, and includes the documentation described in the next succeeding paragraph, shall be conclusively presumed to have been duly given, and the shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall be deemed to be subject to redemption by the Corporation on the applicable anniversary upon receipt of such notice by the Corporation. A Holder shall include with the Holder's Notice (i) the certificate(s) representing such shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock redeemed (or, in the event such certificate(s) have been lost or destroyed, an affidavit of the Holder of loss or destruction reasonably satisfactory to the Corporation as well as other support as reasonably requested by the Corporation) and (ii) transfer instrument(s) reasonably satisfactory to the Corporation and sufficient to transfer such shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to the Corporation free of any adverse interest. No interest shall accrue on the Holder's Redemption Consideration for any share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock after its redemption date. If less than all the shares represented by any such surrendered certificate are redeemed, a new certificate shall be issued representing the unredeemed shares. If, on or after the date the Corporation receives the Holder's Notice, shares of Common Stock and/or funds necessary for the redemption shall have been made available therefor and shall have been irrecoverably deposited or set aside, then the dividends with respect to the shares to be so redeemed shall cease to accrue after the date fixed for redemption, the shares shall no longer be deemed outstanding, the Holders thereof shall cease to be Holders of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, and all rights whatsoever with respect to the shares so requested to be redeemed (except the right of the Holders to receive payment of the redemption price as herein provided without interest upon surrender of their certificates therefor) shall terminate. Section 6. CONVERSION. (a) RIGHT OF CONVERSION/AUTOMATIC CONVERSION. Subject to and upon compliance with the provisions of this Section 6, each share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall, at the option of the Holder, be convertible at any time (unless such share is called for redemption, then to and including but not after the close of business on the date fixed for such redemption, unless the Corporation shall default in payment due upon redemption thereof), into that number of fully paid and non-assessable shares of Common Stock (calculated as to each conversion to the nearest 1/100th of a share) equal to the quotient obtained by dividing $22.23 by the Conversion Price (as defined in Section 6(d)) in effect at such time and by surrender of such share so to be converted in the manner provided in Section 6(b). -7-
Each share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall automatically be converted into that number of fully paid and non-assessable shares of Common Stock (calculated as to each conversion to the nearest 1/100th of a share) equal to the quotient obtained by dividing $22.23 by the Conversion Price in effect as of the Expiration Date. (b) MANNER OF EXERCISE OF CONVERSION. In order to exercise the conversion privilege (or, in the case of an automatic conversion, receive the Common Stock into which the shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock have been converted), the Holder of one or more shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to be converted (or that have been converted, in the case of an automatic conversion) shall surrender the certificate(s) representing such shares (or, in the event such certificate(s) have been lost or destroyed, an affidavit of the Holder of loss or destruction reasonably satisfactory to the Corporation as well as other support as reasonably requested by the Corporation) to the transfer agent designated by the Corporation for such purpose or, if there be none, to the principal business offices of the Corporation, accompanied by the funds, if any, required by the last paragraph of this Section 6(b) and shall give written notice of conversion in compliance with Section 13 in the form provided on such shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock (or such other notice as is acceptable to the Corporation) to the Corporation at such office or agency that the Holder elects to convert the shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock specified in said notice. Such notice shall also state the name or names, together with address or addresses, in which the certificate or certificates for shares of Common Stock which shall be issuable in such conversion shall be issued. Each share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock surrendered for conversion shall, unless the shares issuable on conversion are to be issued in the same name as the name in which such share is registered, be accompanied by instruments of transfer, in form satisfactory to the Corporation, duly executed by the Holder or his duly authorized attorney and an amount sufficient to pay any transfer or similar tax. As promptly as practicable after the surrender of such shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock and the receipt of such notice, instruments of transfer and funds, if any, as aforesaid, the Corporation shall issue and shall deliver at such office or agency to such Holder, or on his written order, a certificate or certificates for the number of full shares of Common Stock issuable upon the conversion of such share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock in accordance with the provisions of this Section 6 and a check or cash in respect of any fractional interest in a share of Common Stock arising upon such conversion, as provided in Section 6(c). Each conversion, other than an automatic conversion, shall be deemed to have been effected immediately prior to the close of business on the date on which such shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall have been surrendered and such notice (and any applicable instruments of transfer and any required taxes) is deemed received by the Corporation as aforesaid (such date, the "CONVERSION DATE"). In the case of an automatic conversion, the Expiration Date shall be the Conversion Date. The person or persons in whose name or names any certificate or certificates for shares of Common Stock shall be issuable upon a conversion, including an automatic conversion, shall be deemed to have become the holder or holders of record of the shares represented thereby at the close of business on the Conversion Date, and such conversion shall be at the Conversion Price in effect at such time on such date, unless the stock transfer books of the Corporation shall be closed on that date, in which event such person or persons shall be deemed to have become such holder or holders of record at the close of business on the next succeeding day on which such stock transfer books are open, but such conversion shall be at the Conversion Price in effect on the date upon which such shares of -8-
Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall have been surrendered and such notice received by the Corporation. (c) CASH PAYMENTS IN LIEU OF FRACTIONAL SHARES. No fractional shares or scrip representing fractions of shares of Common Stock shall be issued upon conversion of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. If more than one share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall be surrendered for conversion at one time by the same Holder, the number of full shares of Common Stock issuable upon conversion thereof shall be computed on the basis of the aggregate of $22.23 for each such share so surrendered. In lieu of any fractional interest in a share of Common Stock which would otherwise be deliverable upon the conversion of any share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, the Corporation shall pay to the Holder of such shares an amount in cash (computed to the nearest cent) equal to the Closing Price on the Conversion Date (or the next Trading Day if such date is not a Trading Day) multiplied by the fractional interest that otherwise would have been deliverable upon conversion of such share. (d) CONVERSION PRICE. The "CONVERSION PRICE" shall mean and be $30.01, subject to adjustment by the Corporation on the applicable Conversion Date as set forth in Section 6(e) below, and subject to adjustment by the Corporation from time to time as set forth in Section 6(f), below. (e) MARKET PRICE ADJUSTMENT TO CONVERSION PRICE. Solely with respect to shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock being converted on an applicable Conversion Date: (i) If and only if the Market Price on the applicable Conversion Date exceeds $31.22 (as such amount may be adjusted pursuant to Section 6(f)(v), the "TRIGGER PRICE"), the Conversion Price with respect to the shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock being converted on such Conversion Date shall be adjusted as set forth in Section 6(e)(ii) (such adjustment, the "MARKET PRICE ADJUSTMENT"). (ii) If the Market Price Adjustment is applicable pursuant to Section 6(e)(i) above, the Conversion Price on the applicable Conversion Date shall be calculated as follows:
($22.23 x Market Price) D Revised Conversion Price = X ----------------------------------------------------- ------------ [(Market Price x A) + {B x (Market Price - C)}] $30.01
where: A = 0.7408 B = 0.2396 C = Trigger Price D = Conversion Price in effect after giving effect to any adjustments described in Section 6(f) and without giving effect to this Section 6(e). Any adjustment to the Conversion Price pursuant to this Section 6(e)(ii) shall not require any adjustment to the Trigger Price pursuant to Section 6(f) below. -9-
(f) OTHER ADJUSTMENTS. (i) In case the Corporation shall (A) pay a dividend or make a distribution on its Common Stock in shares of Common Stock, (B) subdivide its outstanding shares of Common Stock into a greater number of shares, (C) combine its outstanding shares of Common Stock into a smaller number of shares, or (D) issue by reclassification, recapitalization or reorganization of its Common Stock (other than a reorganization in which the provisions of Section 6(i) apply) any shares of capital stock of the Corporation, then in each such case the Conversion Price in effect immediately prior to such action shall be equitably adjusted so that the Holder of any share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock thereafter surrendered for conversion shall be entitled to receive the number of shares of Common Stock or other capital stock of the Corporation which such Holder would have owned or been entitled to receive immediately following such action had such share been converted immediately prior to the occurrence of such event. An adjustment made pursuant to this subsection (f)(i) shall become effective immediately after the record date, in the case of a dividend or distribution, or immediately after the effective date, in the case of a subdivision, combination, reclassification, recapitalization or reorganization. If, as a result of an adjustment made pursuant to this subsection (f)(i), the Holder of any share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock thereafter surrendered for conversion shall become entitled to receive shares of two or more classes of capital stock or shares of Common Stock and other capital stock of the Corporation, the Board of Directors in the exercise of its good faith judgment (whose determination shall be described in a statement filed by the Corporation with the stock transfer or conversion agent, as appropriate) shall determine the allocation of the adjusted Conversion Price between or among shares of such classes of capital stock or shares of Common Stock and other capital stock. (ii) In case the Corporation shall issue options, rights or warrants to holders of its outstanding shares of Common Stock entitling them (for a period expiring within 45 days after the date mentioned below) to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock or other securities convertible or exchangeable for shares of Common Stock at a price per share less than the Current Market Price (as determined pursuant to subsection (iv) of this Section 6(f)) (other than pursuant to any stock option, restricted stock or other incentive or benefit plan or stock ownership or purchase plan for the benefit of employees, directors or officers or any dividend reinvestment plan of the Corporation in effect at the time hereof or any other similar plan adopted or implemented hereafter, it being agreed that none of the adjustments set forth in this Section 6(f) shall apply to the issuance of stock, options, rights, warrants or other property pursuant to any stock option, restricted stock or other incentive or benefit plan or stock ownership or purchase plan for the benefit of employees, directors or officers or any dividend reinvestment plan for the Corporation in effect at the time hereof or any other similar plan adopted or implemented hereafter), then the Conversion Price in effect immediately prior thereto shall be adjusted so that it shall equal the price determined by multiplying the Conversion Price in effect immediately prior to the date of issuance of such rights or warrants by a fraction of which the numerator shall be the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on the date of issuance of such rights or warrants (immediately prior to such issuance) plus the number of shares which the aggregate offering price of the total number of shares so offered -10-
would purchase at such Current Market Price, and of which the denominator shall be the number of shares of Common Stock outstanding on the date of issuance of such rights or warrants (immediately prior to such issuance) plus the number of additional shares of Common Stock offered for subscription or purchase. Such adjustment shall be made successively whenever any rights or warrants are issued, and shall become effective immediately after the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such rights or warrants; provided, however, in the event that all the shares of Common Stock offered for subscription or purchase are not delivered upon the exercise of such rights or warrants, upon the expiration of such rights or warrants the Conversion Price shall be readjusted to the Conversion Price which would have been in effect had the numerator and the denominator of the foregoing fraction and the resulting adjustment been made based upon the number of shares of Common Stock actually delivered upon the exercise of such rights or warrants rather than upon the number of shares of Common Stock offered for subscription or purchase. In determining whether any security covered by this Section 6(f)(ii) entitles the holder thereof to subscribe for or purchase shares of Common Stock at less than such Current Market Price, and in determining the aggregate offering price of such shares of Common Stock, there shall be taken into account any consideration received by the Corporation for such rights, warrants or convertible or exchangeable securities, plus the aggregate amount of additional consideration (as set forth in the instruments relating thereto) to be received by the Corporation upon the exercise, conversion or exchange of such securities, the value of such consideration, if other than cash, to be determined by the Board of Directors in the exercise of its good faith judgment (whose determination shall be described in a statement filed by the Corporation with the stock transfer or conversion agent, as appropriate). (iii) In case the Corporation shall, by dividend or otherwise, distribute to holders of its outstanding Common Stock that is not also distributed to holders of its Series A Convertible Preferred Stock on an as-converted basis as of the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such distribution, evidences of its indebtedness or assets (including securities and cash, but excluding any regular periodic cash dividend of the Corporation and dividends or distributions payable in stock for which adjustment is made pursuant to subsection (i) of this Section 6(f)) or options, rights or warrants to subscribe for or purchase securities of the Corporation (excluding those referred to in subsection (ii) of this Section 6(f)), then in each such case the Conversion Price shall be adjusted so that the same shall equal the price determined by multiplying the Conversion Price in effect immediately prior to the record date of such distribution by a fraction of which the numerator shall be the Current Market Price as of the Time of Determination less the fair market value on such record date (as determined by the Board of Directors in the exercise of its good faith judgment, whose determination shall be described in a statement filed by the Corporation with the stock transfer or conversion agent, as appropriate) of the portion of the capital stock or assets or the evidences of indebtedness or assets so distributed to the holder of one share of Common Stock or of such subscription rights or warrants applicable to one share of Common Stock, and of which the denominator shall be such Current Market Price. Such adjustment shall become effective immediately after the record date for the determination of stockholders entitled to receive such distribution. -11-
(iv) For the purpose of any computation under subsections (ii) and (iii) of this Section 6(f), the "CURRENT MARKET PRICE" per share of Common Stock on any date shall be deemed to be the average of the daily Closing Prices for the shorter of (A) 10 consecutive Trading Days ending on the day immediately preceding the applicable Time of Determination (as defined below) or (B) the period commencing on the date next succeeding the first public announcement of the issuance of such rights or warrants or such distribution through such last day prior to the applicable Time of Determination. For purposes of the foregoing, the term "TIME OF DETERMINATION" shall mean the time and date of the record date for determining stockholders entitled to receive the rights, warrants or distributions referred to in Section 6(f)(ii) and (iii). (v) In any case in which this Section 6(f) shall require that an adjustment be made to the Conversion Price, the Trigger Price shall be adjusted as follows: $31.22 Revised Trigger Price = Revised Conversion Price x ------------------- $30.01 (vi) In any case in which this Section 6(f) shall require that an adjustment be made immediately following a record date or an effective date, the Corporation may elect to defer (but only until the filing by the Corporation with the stock transfer or conversion agent, as the case may be, of the certificate required by subsection (viii)) issuing to the holder of any share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock converted after such record date or effective date the shares of Common Stock issuable upon such conversion over and above the shares of Common Stock issuable upon such conversion on the basis of the Conversion Price prior to adjustment, and paying to such holder any amount of cash in lieu of a fractional share. (vii) No adjustment in the Conversion Price shall be required to be made pursuant to this Section 6(f) unless such adjustment would require an increase or decrease of at least 1% of such price; provided, however, that any adjustments which by reason of this subsection (f)(vii) are not required to be made shall be carried forward and taken into account in any subsequent adjustment. All calculations under this Section 6(f) shall be made to the nearest cent or to the nearest 1/1000th of a share, as the case may be. Anything in this Section 6(f) to the contrary notwithstanding, the Corporation shall be entitled to make such reduction in the Conversion Price, in addition to those required by this Section 6(f), as it in its discretion shall determine to be advisable in order that any stock dividend, subdivision of shares, distribution of rights to purchase stock or securities, or distribution of securities convertible into or exchangeable for stock hereafter made by the Corporation to its stockholders shall not be taxable to the recipients. Except as set forth in subsections (f)(i), (f)(ii), and (f)(iii) and Section 6(e) above, the Conversion Price shall not be adjusted for the issuance of Common Stock, or any securities convertible into or exchangeable for Common Stock or carrying the right to purchase any of the foregoing, in exchange for cash, property or services. -12-
(viii) Whenever the Conversion Price is adjusted pursuant to this Section 6(f), (A) the Corporation shall promptly file with the stock transfer or conversion agent, as appropriate, a certificate setting forth the Conversion Price after such adjustment and a brief statement of the facts requiring such adjustment and the manner of computing the same, which certificate shall, absent manifest error (including the failure to make any other required adjustment under this Section 6(f)), be conclusive evidence of the correctness of such adjustment, and (B) the Corporation shall also mail or cause to be mailed by first class mail, postage prepaid, as soon as practicable to each Holder a notice stating that the Conversion Price has been adjusted and setting forth the adjusted Conversion Price. The stock transfer or conversion agent, as the case may be, shall not be under any duty or responsibility with respect to the certificate required by this subsection (viii) except to exhibit the same to any Holder who requests to inspect it. (ix) In the event that at any time, as a result of an adjustment made pursuant to subsections (i), (ii) or (iii) of this Section 6(f), the Holder of any share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock thereafter surrendered for conversion shall become entitled to receive any shares of the Corporation other than shares of Common Stock, thereafter the Conversion Price of such other shares so receivable upon conversion of any share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall be subject to adjustment from time to time in a manner and on terms as nearly equivalent as practicable to the provisions with respect to Common Stock contained in this Section. (x) The Corporation from time to time in its sole discretion may decrease the Conversion Price by any amount for any period of time if the period is at least 20 days and if the decrease is irrevocable during the period. Whenever the Conversion Price is so decreased, the Corporation shall mail to all Holders a notice of the decrease at least 15 days before the date the decreased Conversion Price takes effect, and such notice shall state the decreased Conversion Price and the period it will be in effect. (g) RESERVATION OF SHARES OF COMMON STOCK. The Corporation covenants that it will at all times reserve and keep available, free from preemptive rights (other than such rights as do not affect the ownership of shares issued to a Holder), out of the aggregate of its authorized but unissued shares of Common Stock or its issued shares of Common Stock held in its treasury, or both, for the purpose of effecting conversions of shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, the full number of shares of Common Stock deliverable upon the conversion of all outstanding shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock not theretofore converted or redeemed and on or before taking any action that would cause an adjustment of the Conversion Price resulting in an increase in the number of shares of Common Stock deliverable upon conversion above the number thereof previously reserved and available therefor, the Corporation shall take all such action so required. For purposes of this Section 6(g), the number of shares of Common Stock which shall be deliverable upon the conversion of all outstanding shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall be computed as if at the time of computation all outstanding shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock were held by a single holder. Before taking any action which would cause an adjustment reducing the Conversion Price below the then par value (if any) of the shares of Common Stock deliverable upon conversion of the shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, the Corporation shall -13-
take any corporate action which may, in the opinion of its counsel, be necessary in order that the Corporation may validly and legally issue fully paid and non-assessable shares of Common Stock at such adjusted Conversion Price. (h) TRANSFER TAXES, ETC. The Corporation shall pay any and all documentary stamp, issue or transfer taxes, and any other similar taxes payable in respect of the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock upon conversions of shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock pursuant hereto; provided, however, that the Corporation shall not be required to pay any tax which may be payable in respect of any transfer involved in the issue or delivery of shares of Common Stock in a name other than that of the holder of the shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock to be converted and no such issue or delivery shall be made unless and until the person requesting such issue or delivery has paid to the Corporation the amount of any such tax or has established, to the satisfaction of the Corporation, that such tax has been paid. (i) CONSOLIDATION OR MERGER OR SALE OF ASSETS. For purposes of this paragraph (i), a "SALE TRANSACTION" means any transaction or event, including any merger, consolidation, sale of assets, tender or exchange offer, reclassification, compulsory share exchange or liquidation, in which all or substantially all outstanding shares of the Corporation's Common Stock are converted into or exchanged for stock, other securities, cash or assets or following which any remaining outstanding shares of Common Stock fail to meet the listing standards imposed by each of the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq National Market at the time of such transaction, but shall not include any transaction the primary purpose of which is the reincorporation of the Corporation in another U.S. jurisdiction so long as in such transaction each share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall convert into an equity security of the successor to the Corporation having identical dividends, rights and preferences as the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. If a Sale Transaction occurs, then each Holder shall have the right to elect one of the following: (i) such Sale Transaction shall be deemed a liquidation for purposes of Section 4, and the amount of the liquidating distribution to holders of Common Stock for purposes of calculating the liquidation preference payable under Section 4 shall be deemed to be zero, (ii) provision shall be made so that such Holder receives in exchange for each outstanding share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock held by such Holder the kind and amount of securities, cash or other property receivable upon such Sale Transaction by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock might have been converted immediately prior to such Sale Transaction assuming such holder of Common Stock did not exercise his rights of election, if any, as to the kind or amount of securities, cash or other property receivable upon such Sale Transaction (provided that, if the kind or amount of securities, cash or other property receivable upon such Sale Transaction is not the same for each share of Common Stock in respect of which such rights of election shall not have been exercised ("NON-ELECTING SHARE"), then for the purposes of this Section 6(i) the kind and amount of securities, cash or other property receivable upon such Sale Transaction for each Non-Electing Share shall be deemed to be the kind and amount so receivable per share by a plurality of the Non-Electing Shares) or (iii) to the extent permitted under applicable law, lawful provision shall be made by the corporation, if any, formed by the Sale Transaction or the corporation, if any, whose securities, cash or other property will immediately after the Sale Transaction be owned, by virtue of such Sale Transaction, by the holders of Common Stock immediately prior to such Sale Transaction, or the corporation, if any, which shall have acquired (whether directly or indirectly) in such Sale Transaction such assets or -14-
securities of the Corporation (collectively the "FORMED, SURVIVING OR ACQUIRING CORPORATION"), as the case may be, providing that the Holder of each share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock then outstanding shall receive in exchange for each such share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock an equity security of the Formed, Surviving or Acquiring Corporation having substantially equivalent dividends, rights and preferences as the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock ("MIRROR PREFERRED STOCK"), except that the Holder thereof shall have the right thereafter to convert such Mirror Preferred Stock into the kind and amount of securities, cash or other property receivable upon such Sale Transaction by a holder of the number of shares of Common Stock into which such share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock might have been converted immediately prior to such Sale Transaction assuming such holder of Common Stock did not exercise his rights of election, if any, as to the kind or amount of securities, cash or other property receivable upon such Sale Transaction. Each Holder shall be provided notice of the Sale Transaction not later than twenty (20) days prior to the effective date thereof, which notice shall detail the material terms of the Sale Transaction, including without limitation the nature and amount of consideration payable to the holders of Common Stock in such Sale Transaction. In the event that a Holder elects option (iii) and such option is not permitted under applicable law, at the option of the Corporation, (A) the Formed, Surviving or Acquiring Corporation will cause a U.S. subsidiary of such Formed, Surviving or Acquiring Corporation to issue a security satisfying the terms described in option (iii) above or (B) such Sale Transaction shall be deemed a liquidation for purposes of Section 4, and the amount of the liquidating distribution to holders of Common Stock for purposes of calculating the liquidation preference payable under Section 4 shall be deemed to be 20% of the amount of the liquidation preference payable to a Holder of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock pursuant to clause (a) of Section 4 hereof (i.e., initially $27.77), as such amount may be adjusted from time to time pursuant to the terms of this Certificate. The Formed, Surviving or Acquiring Corporation shall, if applicable, make provision in its certificate or articles of incorporation or other constituent documents to the end that the provisions set forth in this Section 6(i) shall thereafter correspondingly be made applicable, as nearly as may reasonably be, in relation to any shares of stock or other securities or property thereafter deliverable on the conversion of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, there will be no adjustment in connection with a Sale Transaction pursuant to Section 6(f) hereof except as provided in this Section 6(i). The above provisions of this Section 6(i) shall similarly apply to successive Sale Transactions; provided, however, that in no event shall a Holder of a share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock be entitled to more than one adjustment pursuant to this Section 6(i) in respect of a series of related transactions. Section 7. VOTING RIGHTS. The Holders shall not have any voting rights by virtue of their ownership of the Series A Convertible Preferred Stock except as set forth herein or as otherwise from time to time may be required by law. In connection with any vote in which the holders of Common Stock are entitled to vote (other than pursuant to Section C(4) of Article IV of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation relating to the separate right of the holders of Common Stock as a class to elect 25% of the Corporation's directors), a Holder will have two votes for each share of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock held, such votes to be cast together with the votes of the holders of the Common Stock, voting together as a single class. Any shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock held by the Corporation or any entity -15-
controlled by the Corporation shall not have voting rights hereunder and shall not be counted in determining the presence of a quorum. Section 8. OUTSTANDING SHARES. For purposes of this Certificate of Designation, all shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock shall be deemed outstanding except (i) from the date fixed for redemption pursuant to Section 5, all shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock that have been so called for redemption under Section 5 if shares of Common Stock and funds necessary for payment of the redemption price, as the case may be, have been irrevocably set apart; (ii) from the date of surrender of certificates representing shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, all shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock converted into Common Stock; and (iii) from the date of registration of transfer, all shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock held of record by the Corporation or any subsidiary of the Corporation. Section 9. STATUS OF ACQUIRED SHARES. Shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock redeemed by the Corporation, received upon conversion pursuant to Section 6, cancelled pursuant to Section 2 or otherwise acquired by the Corporation will be restored to the status of authorized and unissued shares of preferred stock, without designation as to series, and may thereafter be issued, but not as shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. Section 10. PREEMPTIVE RIGHTS. The Series A Convertible Preferred Stock is not entitled to any preemptive or subscription rights in respect of any securities of the Corporation. Section 11. COVENANT REGARDING SHARES OF COMMON STOCK. All shares of Common Stock which may be delivered upon conversion or redemption of shares of Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, or in connection with any dividend payment, will upon delivery be duly and validly issued and fully paid and non-assessable, free of all liens and charges and not subject to any preemptive rights (other than rights which do not affect the Holder's right to own the shares of Common Stock to be issued), and prior to the applicable Redemption Date, Dividend Date or Conversion Date, the Corporation shall take any corporate action necessary therefor. The issuance of all such shares of Common Stock shall, to the extent permitted by law, be registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Section 12. SEVERABILITY OF PROVISIONS. Whenever possible, each provision hereof shall be interpreted in a manner as to be effective and valid under applicable law, but if any provision hereof is held to be prohibited by or invalid under applicable law, such provision shall be ineffective only to the extent of such prohibition or invalidity, without invalidating or otherwise adversely affecting the remaining provisions hereof. If a court of competent jurisdiction should determine that a provision hereof would be valid or enforceable if a period of time were extended or shortened or a particular percentage were increased or decreased, then such court may make such change as shall be necessary to render the provision in question effective and valid under applicable law. Section 13. NOTICES. Any notice to Holders or the Corporation required pursuant to this Certificate of Designations shall be in writing and shall be deemed effectively given: (i) upon personal delivery to the party to be notified, (ii) three (3) business days after having been sent by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, (iii) one (1) day -16-
after deposit with a nationally recognized overnight courier, specifying next day delivery, with verification of receipt, and (iv) five (5) business days after having been sent by first class mail, postage prepaid. All notices to Holders shall be addressed to each Holder of record at the address of such Holder appearing on the books of the Corporation. -17-
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Expedia, Inc. has caused this Certificate of Designations to be executed by its duly authorized officer on August 8, 2005. EXPEDIA, INC. By: /s/ Keenan M. Conder ------------------------------------ Name: Keenan M. Conder Title: Senior Vice President

EXHIBIT 3.3 EXPEDIA, INC. ----------------- GENERAL BY-LAWS AMENDED AND RESTATED AS OF AUGUST 9, 2005
AMENDED AND RESTATED BY-LAWS OF EXPEDIA, INC. ARTICLE I OFFICES Section 1. PRINCIPAL OFFICE. The registered office of Expedia, Inc. (the "Corporation") shall be located in the City of Wilmington, County of New Castle, State of Delaware. Section 2. OTHER OFFICES. The Corporation may also have offices at such other places, both within and without the State of Delaware, as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine or the business of the Corporation may require. ARTICLE II STOCKHOLDERS Section 1. PLACE OF MEETING. Meetings of stockholders may be held at such place, either within or without the State of Delaware, as may be designated by the Board of Directors. If no designation is made, the place of the meeting shall be the principal office of the Corporation. Section 2. ANNUAL MEETING. The annual meeting of the stockholders shall be held at such date and time as may be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors. Section 3. SPECIAL MEETINGS. Special meetings of the stockholders may be called by the Chairman of the Board or a majority of the Board of Directors. Section 4. NOTICE. Written notice stating the date, time and place, if any, of the meeting, the means of remote communication, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting, and in case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes thereof, shall be given to each stockholder entitled to vote thereat not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days prior thereto, either personally or by mail, facsimile, telegraph or other means of electronic communication, addressed to each stockholder at his address as it appears on the records of the Corporation; PROVIDED that notices to stockholders who share an address may be given in the manner permitted by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the United States mail so addressed, with postage thereon prepaid. If notice be by facsimile, telegram, or other means of electronic communication, such notice shall be deemed to be given at the time provided in the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. Such further notice shall be given as may be required by law. Meetings may be held without notice if all stockholders entitled to vote are present (unless any such stockholders are present for the purpose of objecting to the meeting as lawfully called or convened), or if notice is waived by those not present. Any previously scheduled meeting of the stockholders may be
postponed, and (unless the Certificate of Incorporation otherwise provides) any special meeting of the stockholders may be canceled, by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the time previously scheduled for such meeting of stockholders. Section 5. ADJOURNED MEETINGS. The Chairman of the meeting or a majority of the voting power of the shares so represented may adjourn the meeting from time to time, whether or not there is a quorum. When a meeting is adjourned to another time or place, except as required by law, notice of the adjourned meeting need not be given if the time, place, if any, thereof and the means of remote communication, if any, by which stockholders and proxy holders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such meeting, are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken, if the adjournment is for not more than thirty (30) days, and if no new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting. At the adjourned meeting the Corporation may transact any business that might have been transacted at the original meeting. Section 6. QUORUM. Except as otherwise required by law, the holders of shares representing a majority of the voting power of the Corporation entitled to vote, present in person or represented by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders for the transaction of business; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that where a separate vote by a class or series or classes or series is required, a majority of the outstanding shares of such class or series or classes or series shall constitute a quorum with respect to such vote. If a quorum shall not be present or represented at any meeting of the stockholders, the stockholders entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, shall have the power to adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present or represented. If at such adjourned meeting, a quorum shall be present or represented, any business may be transacted that might have been transacted at the meeting as originally notified. Section 7. VOTING. Except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, each stockholder shall at every meeting of the stockholders be entitled to vote in person or by proxy each share of the class of capital stock having voting power held by such stockholder. Section 8. PROCEDURE FOR ELECTION OF DIRECTORS; REQUIRED VOTE. Election of directors at all meetings of the stockholders at which directors are to be elected shall be by ballot, and, subject to the rights of the holders of shares of Preferred Stock to elect directors under specified circumstances, a plurality of the votes cast thereat shall elect directors. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Certificate of Incorporation, or these By-Laws, in all matters other than the election of directors, the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting power of the shares present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting and entitled to vote on the matter shall be the act of the stockholders. Section 9. INSPECTORS OF ELECTIONS; OPENING AND CLOSING THE POLLS. The Board of Directors by resolution shall appoint one or more inspectors, which inspector or inspectors may include individuals who serve the Corporation in other capacities, including, without limitation, as officers, employees, agents or representatives, to act at the meetings of stockholders and make a written report thereof. One or more persons may be designated as alternate inspectors to replace any inspector who fails to act. If no inspector or alternate has been appointed to act or is able to act at a meeting of stockholders, the Chairman of the meeting shall appoint one or more inspectors to act at the meeting. Each inspector, before discharging the duties of an inspector, 2
shall take and sign an oath faithfully to execute the duties of inspector with strict impartiality and according to the best of the inspector's ability. The inspectors shall have the duties prescribed by law. The Chairman of the meeting shall fix and announce at the meeting the date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting. Section 10. ACTION WITHOUT MEETING. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any annual or special meeting of stockholders may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote, if a consent in writing, setting forth the action so taken, is signed by the holders of outstanding stock having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all of the shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted, PROVIDED that prompt notice of such action shall be given to those stockholders who have not so consented in writing to such action without a meeting and who would have been entitled to notice of such meeting. ARTICLE III DIRECTORS Section 1. NUMBER AND TENURE. The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by the Board of Directors, the number thereof to be determined from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors. Each director shall serve for a term of one year from the date of his election and until his successor is elected. Directors need not be stockholders. Section 2. RESIGNATION OR REMOVAL. Any director may at any time resign by delivering to the Board of Directors his resignation in writing. Any director or the entire Board of Directors may at any time be removed effective immediately, with or without cause, by the vote, either in person or represented by proxy, of a majority of the voting power of shares of stock issued and outstanding of the class or classes that elected such director and entitled to vote at a special meeting held for such purpose or by the written consent of a majority of the voting power of shares of stock issued and outstanding of the class or classes that elected such director. Section 3. VACANCIES. Vacancies and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors may be filled by the vote of a majority of the remaining directors elected by the stockholders who vote on such directorship, though less than a quorum, or a majority of the voting power of shares of such stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote on such directorship at a special meeting held for such purpose or by the written consent of a majority of the voting power of shares of such stock issued and outstanding. The directors so chosen shall hold office until the next annual election and until their respective successors are duly elected. Section 4. REGULAR MEETINGS. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors shall be held at such dates, times and places as may be designated by the Chairman of the Board, and shall be held at least once each year. 3
Section 5. SPECIAL MEETINGS. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by or at the request of the Chairman of the Board or a majority of the directors. The person or persons calling a special meeting of the Board of Directors may fix a place and time within or without the State of Delaware for holding such meeting. Section 6. NOTICE. Notice of any regular meeting or a special meeting shall be given to each director, either orally, by facsimile or other means of electronic communication or by hand delivery, addressed to each director at his address as it appears on the records of the Corporation. If notice be by facsimile or other means of electronic communication, such notice shall be deemed to be adequately delivered when the notice is transmitted at least twenty-four (24) hours before such meeting. If by telephone or by hand delivery, the notice shall be given at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the time set for the meeting. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors need be specified in the notice of such meeting. A meeting may be held at any time without notice if all the directors are present or if those not present waive notice of the meeting in accordance with Article IX of these By-Laws. Section 7. QUORUM. At all meetings of the Board of Directors, a majority of the total number of directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business and, unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, the affirmative vote of a majority of the directors present at any meeting at which there is a quorum shall be an act of the Board of Directors. If a quorum is not present at any meeting of the Board of Directors, the directors present may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice, until a quorum shall be present. A director present at a meeting shall be counted in determining the presence of a quorum, regardless of whether a contract or transaction between the Corporation and any other corporation, partnership, association, or other organization in which such director is a director or officer or has a financial interest, is authorized or considered at such meeting. Section 8. ACTION WITHOUT MEETING. Any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of the Board of Directors or of any committee thereof may be taken without a meeting if all members of the Board of Directors or such committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing or by electronic communication and such written consent or consents and copies of such communication or communications are filed with the minutes of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee. Section 9. ACTION BY CONFERENCE TELEPHONE. Members of the Board of Directors or any committee thereof may participate in a meeting of such Board of Directors or committee by means of a conference telephone or other communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and such participation in a meeting shall constitute presence in person at such meeting. Section 10. COMMITTEES. The Board of Directors may from time to time designate committees of the Board of Directors, with such lawfully delegable powers and duties as it thereby confers, to serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors and shall, for those committees and any others provided for herein, elect a director or directors to serve as the member or members, designating, if it desires, other directors as alternate members who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee. In the absence or 4
disqualification of any member of any committee and any alternate member in his place, the member or members of the committee present at the meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or they constitute a quorum, may by unanimous vote appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of the absent or disqualified member. Section 11. COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS. The directors may be paid their expenses, if any, of attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors and may be paid a fixed sum for attendance at each meeting of the Board of Directors or a stated salary as director. No such payment shall preclude any director from serving the Corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation therefor. Members of committees may be allowed like compensation for attending committee meetings. ARTICLE IV OFFICERS Section 1. NUMBER AND SALARIES. The elected officers of the Corporation shall consist of a Chairman of the Board (the "Chairman"), a Secretary, a Treasurer, and such other officers and agents as may be deemed necessary by the Board of Directors. Any two (2) or more offices may be held by the same person. The Chairman shall appoint a Chief Executive Officer (the "CEO"). Section 2. ELECTION AND TERM OF OFFICE. The elected officers of the Corporation shall be elected by the Board of Directors at the first meeting of the Board of Directors following the stockholders' annual meeting, and shall serve for a term of one (1) year and until a successor is elected by the Board of Directors. Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, any officer appointed by the Board of Directors may be removed, with or without cause, at any time by the Chairman or by the Board of Directors. Each officer shall hold his office until his successor is appointed or until his earlier resignation, removal from office, or death. All officers elected by the Board of Directors shall each have such powers and duties as generally pertain to their respective offices, subject to the specific provisions of this Article IV. Such officers shall also have such powers and duties as from time to time may be conferred by the Board of Directors or by any committee thereof. The Board or any committee thereof may from time to time elect, or the Chairman may appoint, such other officers (including a President, a Chief Financial Officer and one or more Vice Presidents) and such agents, as may be necessary or desirable for the conduct of the business of the Corporation. Such other officers and agents shall have such duties and shall hold their offices for such terms as shall be provided in these By-Laws or as may be prescribed by the Board or such committee or by the Chairman, as the case may be. Section 3. THE CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD. Except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, the Chairman shall be elected by the Board of Directors from their own numbers and shall preside at all meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors. The Chairman shall be the senior executive officer of the Corporation. The Chairman shall perform such duties and possess such powers as are customarily vested in the office of the Chairman of the Board or as may be vested in him by the Board of Directors. During the time of any vacancy in the office of CEO or in the event of the absence or disability of the CEO, the 5
Chairman shall have the duties and powers of the CEO unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors. In no event shall any third party having dealings with the Corporation be bound to inquire as to any facts required by the terms of this Section 3 for the exercise by the Chairman of the powers of the CEO. The Chairman shall be empowered to sign all certificates, contracts and other instruments of the Corporation, and to do all acts that are authorized by the Board of Directors, and shall, in general, have such other duties and responsibilities as are assigned consistent with the authority of a Chairman of the Board of a corporation. In addition, the Board of Directors may designate by resolution one or more Vice Chairmen of the Board with such duties as may from time to time be requested by the Board of Directors. Section 4. THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER. The CEO shall be appointed by, and report to, the Chairman. The CEO may be removed, with or without cause, at any time by the Chairman. The CEO shall be responsible for the general management of the affairs of the Corporation and shall perform all duties incidental to his office. The CEO shall be empowered to sign all certificates, contracts and other instruments of the Corporation, and to do all acts that are authorized by the Board of Directors, and shall, in general, have such other duties and responsibilities as are assigned consistent with the authority of a Chief Executive Officer of a corporation. Section 5. THE PRESIDENT. The Board of Directors or the Chairman may elect a President to have such duties and responsibilities as from time to time may be assigned to him by the Chairman or the Board of Directors. The President shall be empowered to sign all certificates, contracts and other instruments of the Corporation, and to do all acts which are authorized by the Chairman or the Board of Directors, and shall, in general, have such other duties and responsibilities as are assigned consistent with the authority of a President of a corporation. Section 6. CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER. The Chief Financial Officer (if any) shall act in an executive financial capacity. The Chief Financial Officer shall assist the Chairman of the Board, CEO and the President in the general supervision of the Corporation's financial policies and affairs. The Chief Financial Officer shall be empowered to sign all certificates, contracts and other instruments of the Corporation, and to do all acts which are authorized by the Chairman or the Board of Directors, and shall, in general, have such other duties and responsibilities as are assigned consistent with the authority of a Chief Financial Officer of a corporation. Section 7. VICE PRESIDENTS. The Board of Directors or the Chairman may from time to time name one or more Vice Presidents that may include the designation of Executive Vice Presidents and Senior Vice Presidents all of whom shall perform such duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by the Chairman or the Board of Directors. Section 8. THE SECRETARY. The Secretary shall keep the minutes of the proceedings of the stockholders and the Board of Directors; the Secretary shall give, or cause to be given, all notices in accordance with the provisions of these By-Laws or as required by law, shall be custodian of the corporate records and of the seal of the Corporation, and, in general, shall perform such other duties as may from time to time be assigned by the Chairman or the Board of Directors. 6
Section 9. TREASURER. The Treasurer shall have the custody of the corporate funds and securities, shall keep, or cause to be kept, correct and complete books and records of account, including full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the Corporation, shall deposit all monies and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the Corporation in such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors, and in general shall perform all duties incident to the office of Treasurer and such other duties as from time to time may be assigned to him by the Chairman or the Board of Directors. ARTICLE V CERTIFICATES OF STOCK Section 1. SIGNATURE BY OFFICERS. Every holder of stock in the Corporation shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by or in the name of the Corporation by the Chairman, CEO or President, if any (or any Vice President), and by the Treasurer or the Secretary of the Corporation, certifying the number of shares owned by the stockholder in the Corporation. Section 2. FACSIMILE SIGNATURES. The signature of the Chairman, CEO, President, Vice President, Treasurer or Secretary may be a facsimile. In case any officer or officers who have signed, or whose facsimile signature or signatures have been used on any such certificate or certificates shall cease to be such officer or officers of the Corporation, whether because of death, resignation or otherwise, before such certificate or certificates have been delivered by the Corporation, such certificate or certificates may nevertheless be adopted by the Corporation and be issued and delivered as though the person or persons who signed such certificate or certificates or whose facsimile signature or signatures have been used thereon had not ceased to be such officer or officers of the Corporation. Section 3. LOST CERTIFICATES. The Board of Directors may direct that new certificate(s) be issued by the Corporation to replace any certificate(s) alleged to have been lost or destroyed, upon its receipt of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate(s) of stock to be lost or destroyed. When authorizing such issue of new certificate(s), the Board of Directors may, in its discretion and as a condition precedent to the issuance thereof, require the owner of such lost or destroyed certificate(s), or such owner's legal representative, to advertise the same in such manner as it shall require and/or to give the Corporation a bond in such sum as it may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against the Corporation with respect to the certificate(s) alleged to have been lost or destroyed. Section 4. TRANSFER OF STOCK. Upon surrender to the Corporation or its transfer agent of a certificate for shares duly endorsed or accompanied by proper evidence of succession, assignment or authority to transfer, the Corporation shall issue a new certificate to the person entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate and record the transaction upon its books. Section 5. CLOSING OF TRANSFER BOOKS OR FIXING OF RECORD DATE. In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders, or to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights or to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which 7
record date shall not precede the date on which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted and, in the case of a meeting of stockholders, which record date shall not be more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date of any meeting of stockholders, nor more than sixty (60) days prior to the time for such other action as hereinbefore described; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that if no record date is fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held, and, for determining stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of rights or to exercise any rights of change, conversion or exchange of stock or for any other purpose, the record date shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts a resolution relating thereto. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting. In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action without a meeting (including by telegram, cablegram or other electronic communication as permitted by law), the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which record date shall be not more than ten (10) days after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors and no prior action by the Board of Directors is required by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the record date shall be the first date on which a consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the Corporation in the manner prescribed by Article I, Section 10 hereof. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors and prior action by the Board of Directors is required by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware with respect to the proposed action by consent of the stockholders without a meeting, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action without a meeting shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action. Section 6. REGISTERED STOCKHOLDERS. The Corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its books as the owner of shares to receive dividends and to vote as such owner. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Corporation shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such shares on the part of any other person whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof. ARTICLE VI CONTRACT, LOANS, CHECKS, AND DEPOSITS Section 1. CONTRACTS. When the execution of any contract or other instrument has been authorized by the Board of Directors without specification of the executing officers, the Chairman, the CEO, the President, any Vice President, the Treasurer and the Secretary, may 8
execute the same in the name of and on behalf of the Corporation and may affix the corporate seal thereto. Section 2. LOANS. No loans shall be contracted on behalf of the Corporation and no evidence of indebtedness shall be issued in its name unless authorized by a resolution of the Board of Directors. Section 3. CHECKS. All checks or demands for money and notes of the Corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers or such other person or persons as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate. Section 4. ACCOUNTS. Bank accounts of the Corporation shall be opened, and deposits made thereto, by such officers or other persons as the Board of Directors may from time to time designate. ARTICLE VII DIVIDENDS Section 1. DECLARATION OF DIVIDENDS. Subject to the provisions, if any, of the Certificate of Incorporation, dividends upon the capital stock of the Corporation may be declared by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting, pursuant to law. Dividends may be paid in cash, in property or contractual rights, or in shares of the Corporation's capital stock. Section 2. RESERVES. Before payment of any dividend, there may be set aside out of any funds of the Corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the Board of Directors from time to time, in its absolute discretion, thinks proper as a reserve or reserves to meet contingencies or for equalizing dividends, or for repairing or maintaining any property of the Corporation, or for such other purpose as the Board of Directors shall think conducive to the interests of the Corporation, and the Board of Directors may modify or abolish any such reserve in the manner in which it was created. ARTICLE VIII FISCAL YEAR The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be established by the Board of Directors. ARTICLE IX WAIVER OF NOTICE Whenever any notice whatever is required to be given by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these By-Laws, a written waiver thereof, signed by the person or persons entitled to such notice, or a waiver by electronic communications by such person or persons whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice. Neither the business to be conducted at, nor the purpose of such meeting, need be specified in such waiver. Attendance of a person at a meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice 9
of such meeting, except where a person attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. ARTICLE X SEAL The corporate seal shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation, the year of its organization, and the words "Corporate Seal, Delaware". The seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or otherwise reproduced. ARTICLE XI AMENDMENTS Except as expressly provided otherwise by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, the Certificate of Incorporation, or other provisions of these By-Laws, these By-Laws may be altered, amended or repealed and new By-Laws adopted at any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors by an affirmative vote of a majority of all directors. ARTICLE XII INDEMNIFICATION AND INSURANCE Section 1. INDEMNIFICATION. (A) Each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a "proceeding"), by reason of the fact that he or a person of whom he is the legal representative is or was a director or officer of the Corporation, or is or was a director or officer of the Corporation serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer or trustee of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan maintained or sponsored by the Corporation or other enterprise (whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer or trustee or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer or trustee) (each such person, an "indemnitee"), shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Corporation to the fullest extent authorized by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the Corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the Corporation to provide prior to such amendment), against all expense, liability and loss (including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such person in connection therewith and such indemnification shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer or trustee and shall inure to the benefit of his heirs, executors and administrators; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that except as provided in paragraph (C) of this By-Law, the Corporation shall indemnify any such person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors. The right to indemnification conferred in this By-Law 10
shall be a contract right and shall include the right to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition, such advances to be paid by the Corporation within 20 days after the receipt by the Corporation of a statement or statements from the claimant requesting such advance or advances from time to time; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that if the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware requires, the payment of such expenses incurred by a director or officer in his capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such person while a director or officer, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding, shall be made only upon delivery to the Corporation of an undertaking by or on behalf of such director or officer, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined that such director or officer is not entitled to be indemnified under this By-Law or otherwise. (B) To obtain indemnification under this By-Law, a claimant shall submit to the Corporation a written request, including therein or therewith such documentation and information as is reasonably available to the claimant and is reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent the claimant is entitled to indemnification. Upon written request by a claimant for indemnification pursuant to the first sentence of this paragraph (B), a determination, if required by applicable law, with respect to the claimant's entitlement thereto shall be made as follows: (1) if requested by the claimant, by Independent Counsel (as hereinafter defined), or (2) if no request is made by the claimant for a determination by Independent Counsel, (i) by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of the Disinterested Directors (as hereinafter defined), even though less than a quorum, or (ii) by a committee of Disinterested Directors designated by majority vote of the Disinterested Directors, even though less than a quorum, or (iii) if there are no Disinterested Directors or the Disinterested Directors so direct, by Independent Counsel in a written opinion to the Board of Directors, a copy of which shall be delivered to the claimant, or (iv) if a quorum of Disinterested Directors so directs, by the stockholders of the Corporation. If it is so determined that the claimant is entitled to indemnification, payment to the claimant shall be made within 10 days after such determination. (C) If a claim under paragraph (A) of this By-Law is not paid in full by the Corporation within 30 days after a written claim pursuant to paragraph (B) of this By-Law has been received by the Corporation, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against the Corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting such claim. It shall be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the required undertaking, if any is required, has been tendered to the Corporation) that the claimant has not met the standard of conduct which makes it permissible under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware for the Corporation to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed, but the burden of proving such defense shall be on the Corporation. Neither the failure of the Corporation (including the Disinterested Directors, Independent Counsel or stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, nor an actual 11
determination by the Corporation (including the Disinterested Directors, Independent Counsel or stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct. (D) If a determination shall have been made pursuant to paragraph (B) of this By-Law that the claimant is entitled to indemnification, the Corporation shall be bound by such determination in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to paragraph (C) of this By-Law. (E) The Corporation shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to paragraph (C) of this By-Law that the procedures and presumptions of this By-Law are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in such proceeding that the Corporation is bound by all the provisions of this By-Law. (F) The right to indemnification and the payment of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding in advance of its final disposition conferred in this By-Law shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, By-Laws, agreement, vote of stockholders or Disinterested Directors or otherwise. No repeal or modification of this By-Law shall in any way diminish or adversely affect the rights of any director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation hereunder in respect of any occurrence or matter arising prior to any such repeal or modification. (G) The Corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, grant rights to indemnification, and rights to be paid by the Corporation the expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition, to any employee or agent of the Corporation to the fullest extent of the provisions of this By-Law with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of directors and officers of the Corporation. (H) If any provision or provisions of this By-Law shall be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever: (1) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this By-Law (including, without limitation, each portion of any paragraph of this By-Law containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (2) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this By-Law (including, without limitation, each such portion of any paragraph of this By-Law containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) shall be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable. (I) For purposes of this By-Law: (i) "Disinterested Director" means a director of the Corporation who is not and was not a party to the matter in respect of which indemnification is sought by the claimant. 12
(ii) "Independent Counsel" means a law firm, a member of a law firm, or an independent practitioner, selected by the Disinterested Directors, that is experienced in matters of corporation law and shall include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would not have a conflict of interest in representing either the Corporation or the claimant in an action to determine the claimant's rights under this By-Law. (J) Any notice, request or other communication required or permitted to be given to the Corporation under this By-Law shall be in writing and either delivered in person or sent by telecopy, telex, telegram, overnight mail or courier service, or certified or registered mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, to the Secretary of the Corporation and shall be effective only upon receipt by the Secretary. Section 2. INSURANCE. The Corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any director or officer of the Corporation or any director, officer, trustee, employee or agent of another corporation, or of a partnership, joint venture, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware. To the extent that the Corporation maintains any policy or policies providing such insurance, each such director or officer and trustee, and each such agent or employee to which rights to indemnification have been granted as provided in paragraph (G) of Section 1 of this By-Law, shall be covered by such policy or policies in accordance with its or their terms to the maximum extent of the coverage thereunder for any such director, officer, trustee, employee or agent. 13

EXHIBIT 10.1 EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT THIS EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT ("Agreement") is entered into by and between Mark Gunning ("Employee") and Expedia, Inc., a Washington corporation (the "Company"), and is effective as of July 14, 2005 (the "Effective Date"). WHEREAS, the Company desires to establish its right to the services of Employee, in the capacity described below, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, and Employee is willing to accept such employment on such terms and conditions. NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements hereinafter set forth, Employee and the Company have agreed and do hereby agree as follows: 1A. EMPLOYMENT. The Company agrees to employ Employee as Chief Financial Officer and Employee accepts and agrees to such employment. During Employee's employment with the Company, Employee shall do and perform all services and acts necessary or advisable to fulfill the duties and responsibilities as are commensurate and consistent with Employee's position and shall render such services on the terms set forth herein. During Employee's employment with the Company, Employee shall report directly to the Chief Executive Officer or such person(s) as from time to time may be designated by the Company (hereinafter referred to as the "Reporting Officer"). Employee shall have such powers and duties with respect to the Company as may reasonably be assigned to Employee by the Reporting Officer, to the extent consistent with Employee's position and status. Employee agrees to devote all of Employee's working time, attention and efforts to the Company and to perform the duties of Employee's position in accordance with the Company's policies as in effect from time to time. Employee's principal place of employment shall be the Company's offices located in Bellevue, Washington. 2A. TERM OF AGREEMENT. The term ("Term") of this Agreement shall commence on the Effective Date and shall continue for a period of two (2) years. 3A. COMPENSATION. (a) BASE SALARY. During the Term, the Company shall pay Employee an annual base salary of $325,000.00 (the "Base Salary"), payable in equal biweekly installments or in accordance with the Company's payroll practice as in effect from time to time. For all purposes under this Agreement, the term "Base Salary" shall refer to Base Salary as in effect from time to time. (b) DISCRETIONARY BONUS. During the Term, Employee shall be eligible to receive discretionary annual bonuses, PROVIDED that Employee's annual target bonus shall be 50% of Employee's Base Salary. (d) RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS. In consideration of Employee's entering into this Agreement and as an inducement to join the Company, Employee shall be granted, under the Expedia, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Expedia") 2005 Stock and Annual Incentive Plan (the "Plan"), an award of restricted stock units (the "Restricted Stock Units") representing shares of
common stock of Expedia valued at $500,000.00, subject to the approval of the compensation committee of the Board of Directors of Expedia (the "Compensation Committee"). The award will be governed by a restricted stock unit agreement (the "Restricted Stock Unit Agreement"). Subject to the approval of the Compensation Committee, the number of Restricted Stock Units that Employee will receive will be based on the closing price of Expedia's common stock during a period of time as determined by the Compensation Committee, and will be rounded down to the nearest whole share. The Restricted Stock shall units shall vest and no longer be subject to any restriction in five equal installments on each of the first, second, third, fourth and fifth anniversaries of the Effective Date. In the event of any conflict or ambiguity between this Agreement and the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement, the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement shall control. (e) BENEFITS. From the Effective Date through the date of termination of Employee's employment with the Company for any reason, Employee shall be entitled to participate in any welfare, health and life insurance and pension benefit and incentive programs as may be adopted from time to time by the Company on the same basis as that provided to similarly situated employees of the Company. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, Employee shall be entitled to the following benefits: (i) REIMBURSEMENT FOR BUSINESS EXPENSES. During the Term, the Company shall reimburse Employee for all reasonable and necessary expenses incurred by Employee in performing Employee's duties for the Company, on the same basis as similarly situated employees and in accordance with the Company's policies as in effect from time to time. (ii) VACATION. During the Term, Employee shall be entitled to paid vacation per year, in accordance with the plans, policies, programs and practices of the Company applicable to similarly situated employees of the Company generally. 4A. NOTICES. All notices and other communications under this Agreement shall be in writing and shall be given by first-class mail, certified or registered with return receipt requested or hand delivery acknowledged in writing by the recipient personally, and shall be deemed to have been duly given three days after mailing or immediately upon duly acknowledged hand delivery to the respective persons named below: If to the Company: 3150 139th Avenue SE Bellevue, WA 98005 Attention: General Counsel If to Employee: Mark S. Gunning [HOME ADDRESS OMITTED] Either party may change such party's address for notices by notice duly given pursuant hereto. 2
5A. GOVERNING LAW; JURISDICTION. This Agreement and the legal relations thus created between the parties hereto shall be governed by and construed under and in accordance with the internal laws of the State of Washington without reference to the principles of conflicts of laws. Any and all disputes between the parties which may arise pursuant to this Agreement will be heard and determined before an appropriate federal court in Washington, or, if not maintainable therein, then in an appropriate Washington state court. The parties acknowledge that such courts have jurisdiction to interpret and enforce the provisions of this Agreement, and the parties consent to, and waive any and all objections that they may have as to, personal jurisdiction and/or venue in such courts. 6A. COUNTERPARTS. This Agreement may be executed in several counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original but all of which together will constitute one and the same instrument. Employee expressly understands and acknowledges that the Standard Terms and Conditions attached hereto are incorporated herein by reference, deemed a part of this Agreement and are binding and enforceable provisions of this Agreement. References to "this Agreement" or the use of the term "hereof" shall refer to this Agreement and the Standard Terms and Conditions attached hereto, taken as a whole. IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company has caused this Agreement to be executed and delivered by its duly authorized officer and Employee has executed and delivered this Agreement as of the Effective Date. EXPEDIA, INC. /s/ Kathleen K. Dellplain -------------------------------------------- By: Kathleen K. Dellplain Title: Executive Vice President, Human Resources /s/ Mark S. Gunning -------------------------------------------- Mark S. Gunning 3
STANDARD TERMS AND CONDITIONS 1. TERMINATION OF EMPLOYEE'S EMPLOYMENT. (a) DEATH. In the event Employee's employment hereunder is terminated by reason of Employee's death, the Company shall pay Employee's designated beneficiary or beneficiaries, within 30 days of Employee's death in a lump sum in cash, (i) Employee's Base Salary through the end of the month in which death occurs and (ii) any Accrued Obligations (as defined in paragraph 1(f) below). (b) DISABILITY. If, as a result of Employee's incapacity due to physical or mental illness ("Disability"), Employee shall have been absent from the full-time performance of Employee's duties with the Company for a period of four consecutive months and, within 30 days after written notice is provided to Employee by the Company (in accordance with Section 4A hereof), Employee shall not have returned to the full-time performance of Employee's duties, Employee's employment under this Agreement may be terminated by the Company for Disability. During any period prior to such termination during which Employee is absent from the full-time performance of Employee's duties with the Company due to Disability, the Company shall continue to pay Employee's Base Salary at the rate in effect at the commencement of such period of Disability, offset by any amounts payable to Employee under any disability insurance plan or policy provided by the Company. Upon termination of Employee's employment due to Disability, the Company shall pay Employee within 30 days of such termination (i) Employee's Base Salary through the end of the month in which termination occurs in a lump sum in cash, offset by any amounts payable to Employee under any disability insurance plan or policy provided by the Company; and (ii) any Accrued Obligations (as defined in paragraph 1(f) below). (c) TERMINATION FOR CAUSE; RESIGNATION WITHOUT GOOD REASON. The Company may terminate Employee's employment under this Agreement with or without Cause at any time prior to the expiration of the Term. As used herein, "Cause" shall mean: (i) the plea of guilty or nolo contendere to, or conviction for, the commission of a felony offense by Employee; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that after indictment, the Company may suspend Employee from the rendition of services, but without limiting or modifying in any other way the Company's obligations under this Agreement; (ii) a material breach by Employee of a fiduciary duty owed to the Company; (iii) a material breach by Employee of any of the covenants made by Employee in Section 2 hereof; (iv) the willful or gross neglect by Employee of the material duties required by this Agreement; or (v) a violation by Employee of any Company policy pertaining to ethics, wrongdoing or conflicts of interest that, in the case of the conduct described in clauses (iv) or (v) above, if curable, is not cured by Employee within thirty (30) days after Employee is provided with written notice thereof. Upon (A) the termination of Employee's employment by the Company for Cause or (B) Employee's resignation without Good Reason (as defined below) prior to the expiration of the Term, the Company shall have no further obligation hereunder, except for the payment of any Accrued Obligations (as defined in paragraph 1(f) below). As used herein, "Good Reason" shall mean the occurrence of any of the following without Employee's prior consent: (A) the Company's material breach of any material provision of this
Agreement, (B) the material reduction in Employee's duties, excluding for this purpose any such reduction that is an isolated and inadvertent action not taken in bad faith, (C) the reduction in Employee's Base Salary, or (D) the relocation of Employee's principal place of employment more than 50 miles outside the Seattle metropolitan area, PROVIDED that in no event shall Employee's resignation be for "Good Reason" unless (x) an event or circumstance set forth in clauses (A) through (D) shall have occurred and Employee provides the Company with written notice thereof within a reasonable period of time after the Employee has knowledge of the occurrence or existence of such event or circumstance, which notice specifically identifies the event or circumstance that Employee believes constitutes Good Reason, (y) the Company fails to correct the circumstance or event so identified within 30 days after receipt of such notice, and (z) the Employee resigns within 90 days after the date of delivery of the notice referred to in clause (x) above. (d) TERMINATION BY THE COMPANY OTHER THAN FOR DEATH, DISABILITY OR CAUSE; RESIGNATION BY EMPLOYEE FOR GOOD REASON. Upon termination of Employee's employment prior to the expiration of the Term (i) by the Company for any reason other than Employee's death or Disability or for Cause or (ii) by Employee for Good Reason, then (i) the Company shall continue to pay Employee the Base Salary for a period equal to the greater of (A) twelve (12) months from the date of such termination and (B) through the end of the Term, in either case, over the course of such period (such period, the "Severance Period"), PROVIDED that the expiration of this Agreement shall not give rise to any such payment obligation; and (ii) the Company shall pay Employee within 30 days of the date of such termination in a lump sum in cash any Accrued Obligations (as defined in paragraph 1(f) below). The payment to Employee of the severance benefits described in Section 1(d)(i) shall be subject to Employee's execution and non-revocation of a general release of the Company and its affiliates in a form substantially similar to that used for similarly situated executives of the Company and its affiliates and Employee's compliance with the restrictive covenants set forth in Section 2. Employee acknowledges and agrees that the Company's payment of severance benefits described in Section 1(d)(i) constitutes good and valuable consideration for such release. (e) MITIGATION; OFFSET. In the event of termination of Employee's employment prior to the end of the Term, Employee shall use his or her reasonable best efforts to seek other employment and to take other reasonable actions to mitigate the amounts payable under Section 1(d)(i) hereof, if any. If Employee obtains other employment during the Severance Period, the amount of any payment or benefit provided to Employee under Section 1(d)(i) hereof which has been paid to Employee shall be refunded to the Company by Employee in an amount equal to any compensation earned by Employee as a result of employment with or services provided to another employer during the Severance Period. In addition, all future amounts payable by the Company under Section 1(d)(i) to Employee during the Severance Period shall be offset by the amount earned by Employee from another employer. For purposes of this Section 1(e), Employee shall have an obligation to inform the Company regarding Employee's employment status following termination and during the period encompassing the Term (including, without limitation, the Severance Period). (f) ACCRUED OBLIGATIONS. As used in this Agreement, "Accrued Obligations" shall mean the sum of (i) any portion of Employee's accrued but unpaid Base Salary through the 2
date of death or termination of employment for any reason, as the case may be; and (ii) any compensation previously earned but deferred by Employee (together with any interest or earnings thereon) that has not yet been paid. 2. CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION; NON-SOLICITATION; AND PROPRIETARY RIGHTS. (a) CONFIDENTIALITY. Employee acknowledges that while employed by the Company Employee will occupy a position of trust and confidence. The Company shall provide Employee with Confidential Information. Employee shall hold in a fiduciary capacity for benefit of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates, and shall not, except as may be required to perform Employee's duties hereunder or as required by applicable law, without limitation in time, communicate, divulge, disseminate, disclose to others or otherwise use, whether directly or indirectly, any Confidential Information. "Confidential Information" shall mean information about the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, and their respective businesses, employees, consultants, contractors, suppliers, clients and customers that is not disclosed by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates for financial reporting purposes and that was learned by Employee in the course of employment by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, including (without limitation) any proprietary knowledge, trade secrets, data, formulae, processes, methods, research, secret data, costs, names of users or purchasers of their respective products or services, business methods, operating procedures or programs or methods of promotion and sale, information relating to accounting or tax strategies and data, information and client and customer lists and all papers, resumes, and records (including computer records) of the documents containing such Confidential Information. For purposes of this Section 2(a), information shall not cease to be Confidential Information merely because it is embraced by general disclosures for financial reporting purposes or because individual features or combinations thereof are publicly available. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions, if Employee is required to disclose any such confidential or proprietary information pursuant to applicable law or a subpoena or court order, Employee shall promptly notify the Company in writing of any such requirement so that the Company may seek an appropriate protective order or other appropriate remedy or waive compliance with the provisions hereof. Employee shall reasonably cooperate with the Company to obtain such a protective order or other remedy. If such order or other remedy is not obtained prior to the time Employee is required to make the disclosure, or the Company waives compliance with the provisions hereof, Employee shall disclose only that portion of the confidential or proprietary information which he is advised by counsel that he is legally required to so disclose. Employee acknowledges that such Confidential Information is specialized, unique in nature and of great value to the Company and its subsidiaries or affiliates, and that such information gives the Company and its subsidiaries or affiliates a competitive advantage. Employee agrees to deliver or return to the Company, at the Company's request at any time or upon termination or expiration of Employee's employment, all documents, computer tapes and disks, plans, initiatives, strategies, records, lists, data, drawings, prints, notes and written information (and all copies thereof) created by or on behalf of the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates or prepared by Employee in the course of Employee's employment by the Company and its subsidiaries or affiliates. As used in this Agreement, "subsidiaries" and "affiliates" shall mean any company controlled by, controlling or under common control with the Company. 3
(b) DUTY OF LOYALTY. In consideration of the Company's promise to disclose, and disclosure of, its Confidential Information and other good and valuable consideration provided hereunder, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged by Employee, Employee hereby agrees and covenants that: Until the longer of (i) the last day of the Term and (ii) a period of 24 months beyond Employee's date of termination of employment for any reason, including the expiration of the Term (the "Restricted Period"), Employee shall not, directly or indirectly, engage in, assist or become associated with a Competitive Activity. For purposes of this Section 2(b): (i) a "Competitive Activity" means, at the time of Employee's termination, any business or other endeavor in any jurisdiction of a kind being conducted by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates (or demonstrably anticipated by the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates), including, without limitation, those that are engaged in the provision of any travel related services in any jurisdiction as of the Effective Date or at any time thereafter (such affiliates including, without limitation, Hotels.com, Hotwire, Inc. and TripAdvisor); and (ii) Employee shall be considered to have become "associated with a Competitive Activity" if Employee becomes directly or indirectly involved as an owner, principal, employee, officer, director, independent contractor, representative, stockholder, financial backer, agent, partner, advisor, lender, or in any other individual or representative capacity with any individual, partnership, corporation or other organization that is engaged in a Competitive Activity. Notwithstanding the foregoing, Employee may make and retain investments during the Restricted Period, for investment purposes only, in less than five percent (5%) of the outstanding capital stock of any publicly-traded corporation engaged in a Competitive Activity if stock of such corporation is either listed on a national stock exchange or on the NASDAQ National Market System if Employee is not otherwise affiliated with such corporation. (c) NON-SOLICITATION OF EMPLOYEES. Employee recognizes that he or she will possess Confidential Information about other employees, officers, directors, agents, consultants and independent contractors of the Company and its subsidiaries or affiliates relating to their education, experience, skills, abilities, compensation and benefits, and inter-personal relationships with suppliers to and customers of the Company and its subsidiaries or affiliates. Employee recognizes that the information he or she will possess about these employees, officers, directors, agents, consultants and independent contractors is not generally known, is of substantial value to the Company and its subsidiaries or affiliates in developing their respective businesses and in securing and retaining customers, and will be acquired by Employee because of Employee's business position with the Company. Employee agrees (i) that, during the Restricted Period, Employee will not, directly or indirectly, hire or solicit or recruit the employment or services of (i.e., whether as an employee, officer, director, agent, consultant or independent contractor), or encourage to change such person's relationship with the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, any employee, officer, director, agent, consultant or independent contractor of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates and (ii) that Employee will not convey any information (whether confidential or otherwise) or trade secrets about any employees, officers, directors, agents, consultants and independent contractors of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates to any other person except within the scope of Employee's duties hereunder. (d) NON-SOLICITATION OF CUSTOMERS, SUPPLIERS, PARTNERS. During the Restricted Period, Employee shall not, without the prior written consent of the Company, 4
directly or indirectly, solicit, attempt to do business with, or do business with any customers of, suppliers (including providers of travel inventory) to, business partners of or business affiliates of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates (collectively, "Trade Relationships") on behalf of any entity engaged in a Competitive Activity, or encourage (regardless of who initiates the contact) any Trade Relationship to use the services of any competitor of the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates, or encourage any Trade Relationship to change its relationship with the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates. (e) PROPRIETARY RIGHTS; ASSIGNMENT. All Employee Developments shall be made for hire by the Employee for the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates. "Employee Developments" means any idea, discovery, invention, design, method, technique, improvement, enhancement, development, computer program, machine, algorithm or other work or authorship that (i) relates to the business or operations of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, or (ii) results from or is suggested by any undertaking assigned to the Employee or work performed by the Employee for or on behalf of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, whether created alone or with others, during or after working hours. All Confidential Information and all Employee Developments shall remain the sole property of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates. The Employee shall acquire no proprietary interest in any Confidential Information or Employee Developments developed or acquired during the Term. To the extent the Employee may, by operation of law or otherwise, acquire any right, title or interest in or to any Confidential Information or Employee Development, the Employee hereby assigns to the Company all such proprietary rights. The Employee shall, both during and after the Term, upon the Company's request, promptly execute and deliver to the Company all such assignments, certificates and instruments, and shall promptly perform such other acts, as the Company may from time to time in its discretion deem necessary or desirable to evidence, establish, maintain, perfect, enforce or defend the Company's rights in Confidential Information and Employee Developments. (f) COMPLIANCE WITH POLICIES AND PROCEDURES. During the Term, Employee shall adhere to the policies and standards of professionalism set forth in the Company's Policies and Procedures as they may exist from time to time. (g) REMEDIES FOR BREACH. Employee expressly agrees and understands that Employee will notify the Company in writing of any alleged breach of this Agreement by the Company, and the Company will have 30 days from receipt of Employee's notice to cure any such breach. Employee expressly agrees and understands that the remedy at law for any breach by Employee of this Section 2 will be inadequate and that damages flowing from such breach are not usually susceptible to being measured in monetary terms. Accordingly, it is acknowledged that upon Employee's violation of any provision of this Section 2 the Company shall be entitled to obtain from any court of competent jurisdiction immediate injunctive relief and obtain a temporary order restraining any threatened or further breach as well as an equitable accounting of all profits or benefits arising out of such violation. Nothing in this Section 2 shall be deemed to limit the Company's remedies at law or in equity for any breach by Employee of any of the provisions of this Section 2, which may be pursued by or available to the Company. 5
(h) SURVIVAL OF PROVISIONS. The obligations contained in this Section 2 shall, to the extent provided in this Section 2, survive the termination or expiration of Employee's employment with the Company and, as applicable, shall be fully enforceable thereafter in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. If it is determined by a court of competent jurisdiction in any state that any restriction in this Section 2 is excessive in duration or scope or is unreasonable or unenforceable under the laws of that state, it is the intention of the parties that such restriction may be modified or amended by the court to render it enforceable to the maximum extent permitted by the law of that state. 3. TERMINATION OF PRIOR AGREEMENTS. This Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between the parties and terminates and supersedes any and all prior agreements and understandings (whether written or oral) between the parties with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement. Employee acknowledges and agrees that neither the Company nor anyone acting on its behalf has made, and is not making, and in executing this Agreement, the Employee has not relied upon, any representations, promises or inducements except to the extent the same is expressly set forth in this Agreement. Employee hereby represents and warrants that by entering into this Agreement, Employee will not rescind or otherwise breach an employment agreement with Employee's current employer prior to the natural expiration date of such agreement 4. ASSIGNMENT; SUCCESSORS. This Agreement is personal in its nature and none of the parties hereto shall, without the consent of the others, assign or transfer this Agreement or any rights or obligations hereunder, provided that, in the event of the merger, consolidation, transfer, or sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company with or to any other individual or entity, this Agreement shall, subject to the provisions hereof, be binding upon and inure to the benefit of such successor and such successor shall discharge and perform all the promises, covenants, duties, and obligations of the Company hereunder, and all references herein to the "Company" shall refer to such successor. 5. WITHHOLDING. The Company shall make such deductions and withhold such amounts from each payment and benefit made or provided to Employee hereunder, as may be required from time to time by applicable law, governmental regulation or order. 6. HEADING REFERENCES. Section headings in this Agreement are included herein for convenience of reference only and shall not constitute a part of this Agreement for any other purpose. References to "this Agreement" or the use of the term "hereof" shall refer to these Standard Terms and Conditions and the Employment Agreement attached hereto, taken as a whole. 7. WAIVER; MODIFICATION. Failure to insist upon strict compliance with any of the terms, covenants, or conditions hereof shall not be deemed a waiver of such term, covenant, or condition, nor shall any waiver or relinquishment of, or failure to insist upon strict compliance with, any right or power hereunder at any one or more times be deemed a waiver or relinquishment of such right or power at any other time or times. This Agreement shall not be modified in any respect except by a writing executed by each party hereto. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, neither the assignment of Employee to a different Reporting Officer due to a reorganization or an internal restructuring of the Company or its affiliated companies nor a 6
change in the title of the Reporting Officer shall constitute a modification or a breach of this Agreement. 8. SEVERABILITY. In the event that a court of competent jurisdiction determines that any portion of this Agreement is in violation of any law or public policy, only the portions of this Agreement that violate such law or public policy shall be stricken. All portions of this Agreement that do not violate any statute or public policy shall continue in full force and effect. Further, any court order striking any portion of this Agreement shall modify the stricken terms as narrowly as possible to give as much effect as possible to the intentions of the parties under this Agreement. 9. INDEMNIFICATION. The Company shall indemnify and hold Employee harmless for acts and omissions in Employee's capacity as an officer, director or employee of the Company to the maximum extent permitted under applicable law; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that neither the Company, nor any of its subsidiaries or affiliates shall indemnify Employee for any losses incurred by Employee as a result of acts described in Section 1(c) of this Agreement. ACKNOWLEDGED AND AGREED AS OF THE EFFECTIVE DATE: EXPEDIA, INC. /s/ Kathleen K. Dellplain -------------------------------------------- By: Kathleen K. Dellplain Title: Executive Vice President, Human Resources /s/ Mark S. Gunning -------------------------------------------- Mark S. Gunning

EXHIBIT 10.2 SEPARATION AGREEMENT BETWEEN EXPEDIA, INC. AND CHRIS BELLAIRS Dear Chris: Expedia, Inc., a Washington corporation (the "Company"), and you have agreed to the termination of your employment with the Company upon the following terms and conditions: 1. You hereby acknowledge and agree that, effective as of August 12, 2005, (the "TERMINATION DATE" or "SEVERANCE DATE"), your employment with the Company is terminated and you hereby resign from all positions you occupy as an officer or director of the Company or any subsidiary or affiliate of the Company. 2. (a) From August 13, 2005 through August 12, 2006 ("Payment Period"), the Company will (1) pay to you, on the Company's regular payroll dates, gross semi-monthly pay based on an annual base salary amount of $275,000 and (2) pay on your behalf the full premium for you to receive continuation coverage under COBRA from your COBRA eligibility date, PROVIDED that you timely elect COBRA continuation coverage, and subject to all other COBRA requirements. Because your eligibility for COBRA continuation may be affected if you secure other group health plan coverage within this same period, you agree to notify the Company within thirty (30) days of securing any such coverage. During the Payment Period, you agree to use reasonable best efforts to seek other employment and to take other reasonable actions to mitigate the amounts payable under this section. If you obtain other employment during the Payment Period, the amount of all payments provided for under this section which have been paid to you shall be refunded to the Company by you in an amount equal to any compensation earned by you as a result of employment with or services provided to another employer during the Payment Period, and all future amounts payable by the Company to you during the Payment Period shall be offset by the amount earned by you from another employer. For purposes of this section, you shall have an obligation to inform the Company regarding your employment status during the Payment Period. (b) You are entitled to your vested account balance in the Company's Section 401(k) Plan as of the Termination Date, if any, in accordance with the terms and conditions of such plan. The Company will provide you with a summary of the procedures for all such benefits to be transferred to a private 401(k) plan or individual retirement account to be established by you. -1-
(c) Your short term disability insurance will end on the Severance Date. Your Long-Term Disability Plan coverage ends on the Severance Date and cannot be converted or continued. (d) Your coverage under the Company's group health and dental plans and Group Life and Accidental Death & Dismemberment Insurance, to the extent you currently participate in these plans, ends on the last day of the calendar month of the Severance Date, I.E., August 31, 2005. If you wish to continue your participation and that of your eligible dependents in the Company's group health and dental plans after the coverage ends, and/or if you wish to receive the benefit of the Company-paid COBRA payments in Section 2(b), you may do so under COBRA by completing and returning in a timely manner the election form that will be mailed to you under separate cover. All Group Life and Accidental Death & Dismemberment Insurance, to the extent you currently participate in these plans, may be converted to individual plans. Information about these options will be forwarded to you under separate cover. (e) On or around the date on which the Company pays such bonuses to its employees generally (currently anticipated to be in February 2006), the Company will pay to you a bonus equal to a pro-rated portion (i.e., through August 12, 2005) of 100% of your target 2005 bonus percentage of 60% of gross annual salary (as set forth in paragraph 2 (a) (1) above), such bonus amount calculated to be $104,192, less amounts required to be withheld by the Company under applicable tax laws. 3. (a) During your employment at the Company, you have been granted restricted stock units pursuant to restricted stock unit agreements (the "RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENTS") under the IAC/InterActiveCorp ("IAC") 1997 Stock and Annual Incentive Plan and the Amended and Restated 2000 Stock and Annual Incentive Plan (collectively the "STOCK PLANS"). You will be entitled to one additional year of vesting (i.e., through August 12, 2006) on the restricted stock unit grants previously made to you under the Stock Plans, as set out below: GRANT DATE ADDITIONAL VESTED RSUs 5/11/2004 4,310 2/10/2005 3,768 (b) With respect to the restricted stock units granted you that are not vested as of the Termination Date (or that will not vest pursuant to paragraph 3(a) above), such units will expire and be cancelled upon the Termination Date and you hereby forfeit such unvested restricted stock units. -2-
(c) You agree that upon the forfeiture described in paragraph 3(b) above you have no rights to or interests in any options, restricted stock units or stock of the Company or IAC under the applicable Restricted Stock Unit Agreements or the Stock Plans (or any successor plan), or otherwise in respect of your employment with the Company. (d) Except as expressly provided otherwise in this paragraph 3, all terms of the Restricted Stock Unit Agreements shall remain in full force and effect in accordance with the terms and conditions therein and unchanged and are hereby confirmed in all respects. 4. The Company shall have the right to deduct from all payments under this Agreement amounts required to be withheld by the Company under applicable tax laws. Tax withholding from the payments provided for in Section 2(a) and 2(e) above shall be consistent with the withholding done from your salary when you were actively employed. The Company shall also have the right to deduct any personal account balances (including but not limited to travel advances) or other outstanding monies due by you to the Company from the payments to which you may be entitled under this Agreement. As of the date of this Agreement, the Company is not aware of any such personal account balances which are owed to the Company. 5. The Company shall provide outplacement services for a period of six (6) months beginning September 1, 2005 through a senior executive outplacement provider selected by the Company. 6. (a) For and in consideration of the payments and promises made by the Company and IAC herein and other good and valuable consideration, you and your heirs, executors, administrators, trustees, legal representatives and assigns (collectively, the "RELEASORS") hereby waive, release and forever discharge the Company and IAC and their respective subsidiaries and affiliates, and the Company's and IAC's and their respective subsidiaries' and affiliates' divisions, branches, predecessors, successors, assigns, directors, officers, employees, agents, partners, members, stockholders, representatives and attorneys, in their individual and representative capacities (collectively, the "RELEASEES") of and from any and all actions, causes of action, suits, debts, dues, sums of money, accounts, reckonings, bonds, bills, specialties, covenants, contracts, controversies, agreements, promises, variances, trespasses, damages, judgments, extents, executions, claims and demands whatsoever (including attorneys' fees, costs and disbursements actually incurred), in law, admiralty or equity, whether known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, of every kind and nature whatsoever, which may now exist or which may later arise, including without limitation under Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as -3-
amended, 42 U.S.C. ss.2000 ET SEQ.; the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, as amended; the Fair Labor Standards Act, as amended, 29 U.S.C. ss.201 ET SEQ.; the Age Discrimination in Employment Act, 29 U.S.C. ss.621 ET SEQ.; the Americans With Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C. ss.1001 ET SEQ. and ss.12,112 ET SEQ.; the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, 29 U.S.C. ss.1001 ET SEQ.; the Reconstruction Era Civil Rights Act, as amended, 42 U.S.C. ss.1981 ET SEQ.; the Washington Law Against Discrimination, RCW 9.60 ET SEQ; the New York State Human Rights Law, N.Y. Exec. Law ss.296 ET SEQ., the New York City Administrative Code; and all other federal, state and local laws, statutes, rules or regulations of any type or description, including contract law, tort law, civil rights laws, express or implied covenants of good faith or fair dealing, and otherwise, regarding employment discrimination or the employment of labor, or otherwise, which the Releasors ever had, now have or hereafter can, shall or may have against the Releasees or any of them for, upon or by reason of any matter, cause or thing whatsoever from the beginning of the world to the day of the date of this Agreement, except as otherwise provided in this Agreement. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, except as expressly set forth in this Agreement, the Releasors expressly waive any right or claim for reinstatement of employment, backpay, interest, bonuses, damages, accrued vacation, accrued sick leave, medical, dental, optical or hospitalization benefits, accidental death and dismemberment coverage, long term disability coverage, stock or other interests in the Company, or any affiliate, life insurance benefits, overtime, severance pay and/or attorneys' fees or costs with respect to or derivative of such employment with the Company or the termination thereof or otherwise. (b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth in this section 6, neither you nor the Company release, waive or discharge the other from (i) any claims to seek to enforce this Agreement or (ii) any claims for indemnification or contribution with respect to any liability (A) incurred by you as a director or officer of the Company or (B) of the Company as a result of any willful misconduct or material breach of fiduciary duties by you. (c) For the purpose of implementing a full and complete release and discharge of each party, each party expressly acknowledges that this Agreement is intended to include in its effect, without limitation, all claims or other matters described in this paragraph 6 that such party does not know or suspect to exist in your favor at the time of execution hereof, and that this Agreement contemplates the extinguishment of any and all such claims or other such matters. The Releasees who are not a party to this Agreement are third party beneficiaries of this Agreement and are entitled to enforce its provisions. 7. Until the end of the Payment Period, the Company agrees to reimburse the reasonable relocation expenses (which may include the closing costs associated with the -4-
sale of your home in Seattle) of you and your family's move from Seattle, Washington to another location, up to a maximum amount of $100,000, provided that you shall not be entitled to the foregoing reimbursement if your new employer provides any relocation benefits to you and your family. The Company shall pay, indemnify and hold you harmless from and against any income or employment taxes imposed on you with respect to the moving expense reimbursement payments received by you, if any, from the Company, including an additional amount to cover any taxes payable by you in connection with your receipt of the amounts payable hereunder (after taking into account any tax benefits realized by you by reason of such payment). 8. A restricted period ("Restricted Period") shall exist during the twenty-four (24) months from August 13, 2005 through August 12, 2007. During this Restricted Period, you shall not, directly or indirectly, engage in or become associated with a Competitive Activity. For purposes of this Agreement: (i) a "Competitive Activity" means, as of the Termination Date, any business or other endeavor in any jurisdiction of a kind being conducted by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates (or demonstrably anticipated by the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates), including, without limitation, those that are engaged in the provision of any travel related services in any jurisdiction as of the Termination Date (such Company affiliates including, without limitation, Hotels.com, Travelscape, Hotwire, Inc. and TripAdvisor); and (ii) you shall be considered to have become "associated with a Competitive Activity" if you become directly or indirectly involved as an owner, principal, employee, officer, director, independent contractor, representative, stockholder, financial backer, agent, partner, advisor, lender, or in any other individual or representative capacity with any individual, partnership, corporation or other organization that is engaged in a Competitive Activity. Notwithstanding the foregoing, you may make and retain investments during the Restricted Period, for investment purposes only, in less than five percent (5%) of the outstanding capital stock of any publicly-traded corporation engaged in a Competitive Activity if stock of such corporation is either listed on a national stock exchange or on the NASDAQ National Market System if you are not otherwise affiliated with such corporation. 9. You recognize that you possess Confidential Information (as defined below) about other employees, officers, directors, agents, consultants and independent contractors of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates relating to their education, experience, skills, abilities, compensation and benefits, and inter-personal relationships with suppliers to and customers of the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates. You recognize that such information you possess is not generally known, is of substantial value to the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates in developing their respective businesses and in securing and retaining customers, and was acquired by you because of your business position with the Company. You agree (i) that, during the Restricted Period, you will not, directly or indirectly, hire or solicit or -5-
recruit the employment or services of (i.e., whether as an employee, officer, director, agent, consultant or independent contractor), or encourage to change such person's relationship with the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates, any employee, officer, director, agent, consultant or independent contractor of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates PROVIDED, HOWEVER that a general solicitation of the public for employment shall not constitute a solicitation hereunder so long as such general solicitation is not designed to target, or does not have the effect of targeting, any employee, officer, director, agent, consultant or independent contractor of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates and (ii) that you will not convey any information (whether confidential or otherwise) or trade secrets about any employees, officers, directors, agents, consultants and independent contractors of the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates to any other person. 10. During the Restricted Period, you shall not, without the prior written consent of the Company, directly or indirectly, solicit, attempt to do business with, do business with any customers of, suppliers (including providers of travel inventory) to, business partners of, business affiliates of, or providers of online travel inventory to, the Company or any of its subsidiaries or affiliates (collectively, "Trade Relationships") on behalf of any entity engaged in a Competitive Activity, or encourage (regardless of who initiates the contact) any Trade Relationship to use the services of any competitor of the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates, or encourage any Trade Relationship to change its relationship with the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates. 11. You acknowledge that, during the course of your employment with the Company, you may have developed Confidential Information (as defined below) for the Company, and you may have learned of Confidential Information developed or owned by the Company, IAC or their affiliates or entrusted to the Company, IAC or their affiliates by others. You agree that you will not, directly or indirectly, use any Confidential Information or disclose it to any other person or entity, except as otherwise required by law. "Confidential Information" means any and all information relating to the Company or IAC, as the case may be, which is not generally known by the public or others with whom the Company or IAC does (or plans to) compete or do business, as well as comparable information relating to any of the Company's or IAC's subsidiaries or affiliates. Confidential Information includes, but is not limited to, information relating to the terms of this Agreement, as well as customer lists and related information, its products and services, its methods, quality control measures, logistics, its costs, sources of supply, strategic marketing plans, strategic plans, forecasts, sales, profits, pricing methods, tax and accounting positions, personnel information, the terms of business relationships not yet publicly known, intellectual -6-
property and the filing or pendency of patent applications. Without limitation, Confidential Information also specifically includes any and all information relating to environmental, health and safety, OSHA or regulatory issues. Confidential Information also includes, but is not limited to, comparable information that the Company or its affiliates may receive or has received belonging to customers, suppliers, consultants and others who do business with the Company, or any of the Company's subsidiaries or affiliates. "Confidential Information" does not include any information that is: (i) at the time of disclosure, available from public sources or is in the public domain, through no fault of your own; (ii) received by you from third parties without breach of a non-disclosure obligation to the Company or its affiliates; (iii) shown to have been developed independently by you prior to your employment with the Company; (iv) readily discoverable from publicly available products or literature; (v) approved for your disclosure (other than to a party bound by non-disclosure obligations) by prior written permission of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company; or (vi) required by a judicial tribunal or similar governmental body to be disclosed under law (provided that you have first promptly notified the Company of such disclosure requirement and have cooperated fully with the Company in exhausting all appeals objecting to such requirement). You recognize that any violation of your obligations described in this section of this Agreement may result, in the Company's or IAC's sole discretion, as the case may be, and to the maximum extent permitted by law, in forfeiture by you of any or all payments and other benefits under this Agreement. You also agree that, in addition to and without limiting the availability of any other legal or equitable remedies such entity may have against you, the Company and IAC shall be entitled to an injunction restraining you from further violation of this section. 12. In accordance with normal ethical and professional standards, prior to and following the Termination Date, you agree to refrain from taking actions or making statements, written or oral, which denigrate, disparage or defame the goodwill or reputation of the Company, IAC, and their respective affiliates, divisions, branches, predecessors, successors, assigns, trustees, officers, security holders, partners, agents and former and current employees and directors or which are intended to, or may be reasonably expected to, adversely affect the morale of the employees of any of the Company or IAC. You further agree not to make any negative statements to third parties relating to your employment or any aspect of the business of the Company, IAC, and their affiliates and not to make any statements to third parties about the circumstances of the termination of your employment, or the Company, IAC, and their respective affiliates, divisions, branches, predecessors, successors, assigns, trustees, officers, security holders, partners, agents and former and current employees -7-
and directors and employees, except as may be required by a court or governmental body. You may however discuss the circumstances of the termination of your employment with the Company with your attorneys, tax advisors, outplacement counselor and immediate family. The Company will take reasonable steps to advise actively employed executive officers of the Company and its subsidiaries, and members of their boards of directors not to denigrate, disparage or defame your reputation. 13. On or before the Termination Date, you agree to return to the Company any and all records, files, notes, memoranda, reports, work product and similar items, and any manuals, drawings, sketches, plans, tape recordings, computer programs, disks, cassettes and other physical representations of any information, relating to the Company, or any of its affiliates, whether or not constituting confidential information, and you will return to the Company any other property, including but not limited to a laptop computer, belonging to the Company or IAC, no later than August 12, 2005. 14. You agree to make yourself reasonably available to the Company and IAC to respond to requests by such respective entities for documents and information concerning matters involving facts or events relating to the Company, IAC or any affiliate or subsidiary thereof that may be within your knowledge, and further agree to provide truthful information to the Company, IAC, an affiliate or subsidiary thereof or any of their representatives as reasonably requested with respect to pending and future litigations, arbitrations, other dispute resolutions, investigations or requests for information. You also agree to make yourself reasonably available to assist the Company, IAC, and their respective affiliates in connection with any administrative, civil or criminal matter or proceeding brought by or brought against any of them, in which and to the extent the Company, IAC, an affiliate of subsidiary thereof or any of their representatives reasonably deem your cooperation necessary. You shall be reimbursed for your reasonable out-of-pocket expenses incurred as a result of such cooperation. 15. You hereby represent that you have not filed or commenced any proceeding against the Releasees, and hereby covenant and agree not to file or commence any proceeding against the Releasees with respect to your employment with the Company or the termination thereof, or otherwise, arising on or prior to the date of execution of this Agreement. You also agree that if you breach these representations or covenants, then you authorize the Releasees to, and each shall have the right to, cause any such proceeding to be dismissed on the grounds that you have completely released and waived such proceeding. 16. This Agreement and all matters or issues related hereto shall be governed by the laws of the State of Washington applicable to contracts entered into -8-
and performed therein. Whenever possible, each provision of this Agreement shall be interpreted in such a manner as to be effective and valid under applicable law, but if any provision of this Agreement shall be prohibited by or invalid under such law, such provision shall be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or invalidity, without invalidating the remainder of such provision or the remaining provisions of this Agreement. Each of the Company and IAC hereby consents to, and you hereby submit your person to, the jurisdiction of all state courts of the State of Washington sitting in King County, and the United States District Court for the Western District of Washington, for the purposes of the enforcement of this Agreement. All disputes under this Agreement will be determined in the Federal or State courts within the state of Washington; sitting in King County. 17. (a) This Agreement is personal in its nature and the parties shall not, without the prior written consent of the other, assign or transfer this Agreement or any rights or obligations hereunder; PROVIDED, HOWEVER, the provisions hereof shall inure to the benefit of, and be binding upon, each successor of the Company or any of its affiliates, whether by merger, consolidation or transfer of all or substantially all of its assets. (b) This Agreement, and the stock plan agreements referenced in Section 3, contain the entire understanding of the parties hereto relating to the subject matter herein contained and supersede all prior agreements or understandings between the parties hereto with respect thereto. This Agreement can be changed only by a writing signed by all parties hereto. No waiver shall be effective against any party unless in writing and signed by the party against whom such waiver shall be enforced. 18. All notices and other communications hereunder shall be deemed to be sufficient if in writing and delivered in person or by a nationally recognized courier service, addressed, if to you, to the following: [HOME ADDRESS OMITTED] and if to the Company or Expedia Holdings, to: Expedia, Inc. 3150 139th Ave SE Bellevue, Washington 98005 Attention: General Counsel And if to IAC: -9-
152 West 57th Street, 42nd Floor New York, NY 10019 Attention: General Counsel or such other address as you or the Company may have furnished to the other parties in writing. Each notice delivered in person or by overnight courier shall be deemed given when delivered or when delivery is attempted and refused. 19. In case any provision or provisions contained in this Agreement shall for any reason be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect by any court or administrative body with competent jurisdiction, such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect the remaining provisions hereof, which shall remain in full force and effect. Any provision(s) so determined to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable shall be reformed so that they are valid, legal and enforceable to the fullest extent permitted by law or, if such reformation is impossible, then this Agreement shall be construed as if such invalid, illegal or unenforceable provision(s) had never been contained herein; provided that, upon a finding by a court of competent jurisdiction that this Agreement is illegal and/or unenforceable, you shall be required to repay to the Company the payments set forth herein. 20. This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, all of which shall be considered one and the same agreement. 21. You acknowledge and agree that, in deciding to execute this Agreement, you have relied entirely upon your own judgment, that you have read this Agreement and have had adequate time to consider its terms and effects and to ask any questions that you may have of anyone, and that you have executed this Agreement voluntarily and with full understanding of its terms and its effects on you, and that no fact, evidence, event or transaction currently unknown to you but which may later become known to you will affect in any way or manner the final and unconditional nature of this Agreement. You further acknowledge that (a) you were advised to consult with an attorney before you executed this Agreement; (b) you were afforded sufficient opportunity to and did consult with an attorney; (c) you had 21 days from your receipt of this Agreement to consider this Agreement before executing and delivering this Agreement; and (d) you may revoke this Agreement by delivering written notice to the Company and IAC within a period of seven days following the day on which you execute this Agreement (the "REVOCATION PERIOD"), and this Agreement shall not become effective or enforceable until after the Revocation Period has expired. For this revocation to be effective, written notice from you must be received by IAC and the Company at the address set forth and as provided in paragraph 10 no later than the close of business on the seventh calendar day after you sign this Agreement. If you -10-
revoke this Agreement, you will not receive any of the payments or benefits described in this Agreement. BY SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT, YOU STATE THAT: (a) YOU HAVE READ THIS AGREEMENT AND HAVE HAD SUFFICIENT TIME TO CONSIDER ITS TERMS; (b) YOU UNDERSTAND ALL OF THE TERMS AND CONDITIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT AND KNOW THAT YOU ARE GIVING UP IMPORTANT RIGHTS; (c) YOU AGREE WITH EVERYTHING IN THIS AGREEMENT; (d) YOU ARE AWARE OF YOUR RIGHT TO CONSULT WITH AN ATTORNEY BEFORE SIGNING THIS AGREEMENT AND HAVE BEEN ADVISED OF SUCH RIGHT; (e) YOU HAVE SIGNED THIS AGREEMENT KNOWINGLY AND VOLUNTARILY; AND (f) THIS AGREEMENT INCLUDES A RELEASE BY YOU OF ALL KNOWN AND UNKNOWN CLAIMS. -11-
If the foregoing correctly sets forth our understanding, please sign one copy of this Agreement and return it to the undersigned, whereupon this letter shall constitute a binding agreement between us. Sincerely, EXPEDIA, INC. A WASHINGTON CORPORATION By: /S/ KATHY K. DELLPLAIN ----------------------- Name: Kathy K. Dellplain Title: Executive Vice President, Human Resources Dated: August 12, 2005 I, Chris Bellairs, acknowledge that I have been given at least twenty-one (21) days from the date of this Agreement to consider the terms contained herein and that I have seven (7) days after signing this Agreement in which to rescind my acceptance hereof. I also acknowledge that I have been advised to consult with a lawyer prior to signing this Agreement. I knowingly and voluntarily agree to and accept the terms outlined in this Agreement without reservation and fully understand all of its terms. ACCEPTED AND AGREED: /S/ CHRIS BELLAIRS - ------------------------------------- CHRIS BELLAIRS -12-


