FILE:EXPE/EXPE-8K-20051219185815.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
On December 15, 2005, the Compensation/Benefits Committee of the Board of Directors of Expedia, Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company"), adopted and ratified the Expedia Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, effective August 9, 2005. The foregoing description of the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan is not complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the actual Executive Deferred Compensation Plan, which is attached to this report as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated by reference into this report.
 
Under the Plan, the Company will provide a select group of management employees and highly compensated employees (each, a "Participant") with the opportunity to defer a specified percentage of their cash bonuses (up to a maximum of 90%). The amounts deferred will be credited to a book-entry account established for each Participant. Such accounts will be adjusted for positive or negative investment results from investment alternatives selected by the Participant from among those made available under the Plan.
 
Pursuant to the Plan, the Company will pay a cash amount (the "Plan Benefits") to a Participant equal to the amount of deferred compensation credited to the Participant's account on a date elected by the Participant. In general, this date will be a specific date, no sooner than three years after the date of deferral, the Participant's termination of employment or the Participant's attainment of age 65. If a Participant who is a "key employee," as defined under Section 416 of the IRC, elects to have his or her Plan Benefits paid upon termination of employment, the Participant must wait six months following his or her termination of employment to receive such distribution.
 
A Participant may elect to receive his or her Plan Benefits in a single cash lump sum or in installments over a period of 10 or 15 years. In addition, a Participant may be entitled to receive Plan Benefits earlier in the event he or she incurs an "unforeseen emergency" or upon a change in control of the Company. If a Participant dies prior to receiving all of his or her Plan Benefits, the unpaid portion of such Plan Benefits will be paid to the Participant's designated beneficiary in the form of a lump sum distribution as soon as administratively feasible thereafter.
 
Plan Benefits are unsecured general obligations of the Company and rank in parity with the Company's other unsecured and unsubordinated indebtedness. The Company may establish a "rabbi trust" in connection with the Plan. The amounts allocated to such trust and earnings thereon will be used to pay Plan Benefits under the Plan.
 
The Company can amend or terminate the Plan at any time.
 
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
 
 
The Plan is established to provide a select group of management and highly compensated employees of Expedia, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and its Affiliates (as defined herein) the opportunity to defer Compensation, as defined herein.
 
The provisions of the Plan are effective as of the date of the pro rata distribution (or spin-off) (the "Distribution Date") of all of the outstanding shares of common stock of Expedia, Inc., a Delaware corporation to the stockholders of IAC/InterActiveCorp. As contemplated by the terms of the spin-off, the Plan is the successor to the IAC/InterActiveCorp Executive Deferred Compensation Plan with respect to the portion of such plan benefiting individuals who were participants in the IAC/InterActiveCorp Executive Deferred Compensation Plan as of the Distribution Date and who became Eligible Employees as defined herein. In accordance with Section 5.5 of the Employee Matters Agreement between IAC/InterActiveCorp and Expedia, Inc., dated as of August 9, 2005, the Plan is substantially identical to the IAC/InterActiveCorp Executive Deferred Compensation Plan. Each individual who was a participant in the IAC/InterActiveCorp Executive Deferred Compensation Plan as of the Distribution Date shall become a Participant in the Plan on the Effective Date.
 
The Plan is intended to conform to the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any regulations promulgated thereunder.
 
 
Unless the context requires otherwise, the following words, as used in the Plan, shall have the meanings ascribed to each below:
 
 
 
 
 
Upon the acceptance by the Committee (or a designee of the Committee) of a new Beneficiary designation, all Beneficiary designations previously filed shall be canceled. A Participant's designation of a Beneficiary (or any election to revoke or change a prior Beneficiary designation must be made and filed with the Committee (or a designee of the Committee), in writing, on such form(s) and in such manner prescribed by the Committee (or a designee of the Committee). The Committee (or a designee of the Committee) shall be entitled to rely on the last Beneficiary designation filed by the Participant and accepted by the Committee (or a designee of the Committee) prior to his or her death.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Company may agree in writing with a Participant to treat an item of compensation other than a Participant's bonus compensation as Compensation for purposes of the Plan.
 
 
 
 
(a) One lump sum; or
 
(b) Annual installment payments over a period of ten (10) years or fifteen (15) years where the amount of each installment is determined by the Committee (or a designee of the Committee) pursuant to a method uniformly applied to all Participants.
 
 
(a) As soon as administratively feasible following the Participant's Termination of Employment or, with respect to each Participant who is a Key Employee, six (6) months following his or her Separation from Service, as defined under Section 409A of the Code;
 
(b) A date no less than three (3) years following the end of the period in which the Compensation that was deferred was earned; or
 
(c) The date on which the Participant attains age sixty-five (65).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant shall not be considered to have had a Termination of Employment if, for purposes of Section 409A of the Code, the Participant would not be considered to have had a "separation from service."
 
 
Each Employee who is an Eligible Employee with respect to a Plan Year shall be eligible to become an Active Participant in the Plan pursuant to Section 4 with respect to such Plan Year. A Participant shall cease to be an Active Participant with regard to a Plan Year if he or she is not, or ceases to be, an Eligible Employee with regard to the Plan. A Participant's classification as an Eligible Employee shall be made anew for each Plan Year and a new Deferral Agreement must be made for each Plan Year.
 
 
 
(a) Any election to defer payment of a portion of a Participant's Compensation shall be made by the Participant pursuant to a Deferral Agreement before the earlier of: (i) the first day of the Plan Year (or such other period with respect to which the Compensation is earned by the Participant) with respect to which the Compensation is earned or (ii) such date as required under Section 409A of the Code. The Participant's Deferral Agreement shall evidence the Participant's agreement to the terms of the Plan. The Deferral Agreement shall authorize the Company to reduce the Participant's Compensation by a whole percentage up to Ninety Percent (90%), as elected by the Participant pursuant to the Deferral Agreement. The Company may reduce the percentage that a Participant elects to defer pursuant to a Deferral Agreement in order to withhold for federal, state and local taxes or to comply with an order of a court or other authority or to withhold under any other required plan or program.
 
(b) The provisions of Paragraph (a) of this Section shall be subject to the following:
 
(i) If an Employee first becomes an Eligible Employee during a Plan Year, he or she may elect to become an Active Participant with respect to such Plan Year (or other such period with respect to which the Compensation is earned by the Participant) solely with respect to Compensation earned with respect to services performed after the Deferral Agreement is executed and delivered to the Company pursuant to the procedures established by the Committee (or a designee or the Committee) prior to the earlier of: (i) the end of the thirty (30) day period following the date he or she becomes an Eligible Employee, by making an election, in the manner prescribed by the Committee (or a designee of the
 
Committee) or (ii) the end of the period permitted for such an election under Section 409A of the Code.
 
(ii) An election to defer Compensation hereunder pursuant to a Deferral Agreement is irrevocable and is valid only for the Plan Year (or such other period with respect to which the Compensation is earned by the Participant) following the election or in the case of an Employee who first becomes an Eligible Employee during a Plan Year, for Compensation earned with respect to services performed in such Plan Year after such election. If no new Deferral Agreement is timely made with respect to any subsequent Plan Year, the Compensation earned with respect to such Plan Year shall not be deferred under the Plan.
 
(c) Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, for the initial Plan Year of the Plan, the elections of Eligible Employees who were participants in IAC/InterActiveCorp Executive Deferred Compensation Plan shall apply under the Plan in the same manner as under the IAC/InterActiveCorp Executive Deferred Compensation Plan. No individual who was eligible to become a participant in the IAC/InterActiveCorp Executive Deferred Compensation Plan prior to the Effective Date of this Plan and who did not make a deferral election under such plan shall be eligible to make an election pursuant to paragraph (b) above with respect to the initial Plan Year.
 
 
 
 
(a) Earnings shall be credited to a Participant's Account. The measuring alternatives used for the measurement of Earnings on the amounts in a Participant's Account shall be selected by the Participant in writing on a form prescribed by the Committee (or a designee of the Committee) or, if permitted by the Committee (or a designee of the Committee), by telephonic or electronic transmission from among the various measuring alternatives offered under the Plan, unless the Committee (or a designee of the Committee) decides in its sole discretion to designate the measuring alternative(s) used to determine Earnings.
 
(b) In the event that various measuring alternatives are made available to Participants, each Participant may change the selection of his or her measuring alternatives as of the beginning of any calendar month (or at such other times and in such manner as prescribed by the Committee (or its designee), in its sole discretion), subject to such notice and other administrative procedures established by the Committee(or a designee of the Committee). To the extent permitted by
 
the Committee (or a designee of the Committee), a Participant may make separate elections pursuant to this Section with respect to his or her (i) current Account balance and (ii) future Deferred Compensation. Earnings shall be computed under this Section to the balance in each Participant's Account, if applicable, as of the last business day of each month, or such other dates as selected by the Committee (or a designee of the Committee), in its sole discretion, at a rate equal to the performance of the measuring alternative selected by the Participant for the calendar month (or such other applicable period) to which such selection relates.
 
(c) The Committee (or a designee of the Committee) may, in its sole discretion, establish rules and procedures for the crediting of Earnings and the election of measuring alternatives pursuant to this Section 5.
 
 
 
(a) Subject to Sections 6.2 and 6.3 and to the extent otherwise required by Section 409A of the Code, with respect to the Deferred Compensation of each period in which a Participant is an Active Participant, a Participant may make an election, at the time specified in Paragraph (d) below, regarding: (i) the Distribution Form (or a combination of Distribution Forms) in which to receive his or her Supplemental Benefits from the Plan and (ii) the Distribution Time upon which to commence receiving his or her Supplemental Benefits attributable to such Deferred Compensation from the Plan. Subject to Sections 6.2 and 6.3 and to the extent otherwise required by Section 409A of the Code, a Participant may elect alternative Distribution Times that are conditioned on whether the Distribution Time precedes or follows the Participant's Termination of Employment and may make separate Distribution Form elections with respect to each such corresponding Distribution Time.
 
(b) If a Participant elects to receive his or her Supplemental Benefits in a Distribution Form described in Section 2.12(b), the amount of each installment payment shall be debited from the Participant's Account. Such Account shall be deemed credited with Earnings in accordance with Section 5.
 
(c) A Participant must make his or her initial election regarding the Distribution Form and Distribution Time to receive his or her Supplemental Benefits at the same time he or she enters into a Deferral Agreement.
 
(d) If a Participant does not make an election with respect to the Distribution Form and/or Distribution Time, or if the Participant's election is not effective under the Plan or does not meet the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, Supplemental Benefits shall be paid to him or her in the Distribution Form described in Section 2.12(a) and at the Distribution Time described in Section 2.13(a).
 
 
 
Except as otherwise required by Section 409A of the Code, a Participant may change his or her election regarding the Distribution Form and the Distribution Time that his or her Supplemental Benefit will be paid in accordance with the following requirements:
 
(i) Subject to clause (ii) and (iii) of this Paragraph, such election may not take effect until the twelve (12) month anniversary of the date the election is made and filed with the Committee (or a designee of the Committee);
 
(ii) In the case of an election related to the payment of Supplemental Benefits not described in Section 6.2 or Section 7.1, the Distribution Time must not be less than five (5) years after the Distribution Date that the new election is changing (regardless of whether the new election merely changes the Distribution Form); and
 
(iii) Any election related to a payment of Supplemental Benefits at a Distribution Time described in Section 2.13(c) shall not be effective unless made at least twelve (12) months prior to the Distribution Time that such election is changing (regardless of whether the new election is only changing the Distribution Form).
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(a) The acquisition by any individual entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(e) or 14(d)(2) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), other than Barry Diller and Liberty Media Corporation and their respective Affiliates (a "Person") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of equity securities of the Company representing more than 50% of the voting power of the then outstanding equity securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "Outstanding Corporation Voting Securities"); provided, however, that for purposes of this subsection (a), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change of Control: (A) any acquisition by the Company, (B) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any corporation controlled by the Company, or (C) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of subsection (iii).
 
(b) Individuals who, as of August 9, 2005, constitute the Board (the "Incumbent Board") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; provided, however, that any individual becoming a director subsequent to August 9, 2005, whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's stockholders, was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board shall be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board.
 
(c) Consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or the purchase of assets or stock of another entity (a "Business Combination"), in each case, unless immediately following such Business Combination, (A) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners of the Outstanding Corporation Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination will beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of the then outstanding combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (or
 
equivalent governing body, if applicable) of the entity resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, an entity which as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Corporation Voting Securities, (B) no Person (excluding Barry Diller and Liberty Media Corporation and their Affiliates, any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or such entity resulting from such Business Combination) will beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than a majority of the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such entity except to the extent that such ownership of the Company existed prior to the Business Combination and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors (or equivalent governing body, if applicable) of the entity resulting from such Business Combination will have been members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the initial agreement, or action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination.
 
(d) Approval by the stockholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, an event shall not be considered to be a "Change in Control" if, for purposes of Section 409A of the Code, such event would not be considered to be a change in control.
 
 
(a) .
Initial Claim
 
(i) Any claim by an Employee, Participant or Beneficiary ("Claimant") with respect to eligibility, participation, contributions, benefits or other aspects of the operation of the Plan shall be made in writing to the Committee. The Committee shall provide the Claimant with the necessary forms and make all determinations as to the right of any person to a disputed benefit. If a Claimant is denied benefits under the Plan, the Committee or its designee shall notify the Claimant in writing of the denial of the claim within ninety (90) days after the Committee or its designee receives the claim, provided that in the event of special circumstances such period may be extended.
 
(ii) In the event of special circumstances, the ninety (90) day period may be extended for a period of up to ninety (90) days (for a total of one hundred eighty (180) days). If the initial ninety (90) day period is extended, the Committee or its designee shall notify the Claimant in writing within ninety (90) days of receipt of the claim. The written notice of extension shall indicate the special circumstances requiring the extension of time and provide the date by which the Committee expects to make a determination with respect to the claim. If the extension is required due to the Claimant's failure to submit information necessary to decide the claim, the period for making the determination shall be
 
tolled from the date on which the extension notice is sent to the Claimant until the earlier of (i) the date on which the Claimant responds to the Committee's request for information, or (ii) expiration of the forty-five (45) day period commencing on the date that the Claimant is notified that the requested additional information must be provided.
 
(iii) If notice of the denial of a claim is not furnished within the required time period described herein, the claim shall be deemed denied as of the last day of such period.
 
(iv) If a claim is wholly or partially denied, the notice to the Claimant shall set forth:
 
(A) The specific reason or reasons for the denial;
 
(B) Specific reference to pertinent Plan provisions upon which the denial is based;
 
(C) A description of any additional material or information necessary for the Claimant to complete the claim request and an explanation of why such material or information is necessary;
 
(D) Appropriate information as to the steps to be taken and the applicable time limits if the Claimant wishes to submit the adverse determination for review; and
 
(E) A statement of the Claimant's right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA following an adverse determination on review.
 
(b) .
Claim Denial Review
 
(i) If a claim has been wholly or partially denied, the Claimant may submit the claim for review by the Committee. Any request for review of a claim must be made in writing to the Committee no later than sixty (60) days after the Claimant receives notification of denial or, if no notification was provided, the date the claim is deemed denied. The Claimant or his or her duly authorized representative may:
 
(A) Upon request and free of charge, be provided with reasonable access to, and copies of, relevant documents, records, and other information relevant to the Claimant's claim; and
 
(B) Submit written comments, documents, records, and other information relating to the claim. The review of the claim determination shall take into account all comments, documents, records, and other information submitted by the Claimant relating to the claim, without
 
regard to whether such information was submitted or considered in the initial claim determination.
 
(ii) The decision of the Committee upon review shall be made within sixty (60) days after receipt of the Claimant's request for review, unless special circumstances (including, without limitation, the need to hold a hearing) require an extension. In the event of special circumstances, the sixty (60) day period may be extended for a period of up to one hundred twenty (120) days.
 
(iii) If notice of the decision upon review is not furnished within the required time period described herein, the claim on review shall be deemed denied as of the last day of such period.
 
(iv) The Committee, in its sole discretion, may hold a hearing regarding the claim and request that the Claimant attend. If a hearing is held, the Claimant shall be entitled to be represented by counsel.
 
(v) The Committee's decision upon review on the Claimant's claim shall be communicated to the Claimant in writing. If the claim upon review is denied, the notice to the Claimant shall set forth:
 
(A) The specific reason or reasons for the decision, with references to the specific Plan provisions on which the determination is based;
 
(B) A statement that the Claimant is entitled to receive, upon request and free of charge, reasonable access to, and copies of, all documents, records and other information relevant to the claim; and
 
(C) A statement of the Claimant's right to bring a civil action under Section 502(a) of ERISA.
 
(c) All interpretations, determinations and decisions of the Committee with respect to any claim, including without limitation the appeal of any claim, shall be made by the Committee, in its sole discretion, based on the Plan and comments, documents, records, and other information presented to it, and shall be final, conclusive and binding.
 
The claims procedures set forth in this Section are intended to comply with United States Department of Labor Regulation  2560.503-1 and should be construed in accordance with such regulation. In no event shall it be interpreted as expanding the rights of Claimants beyond what is required by United States Department of Labor Regulation  2560.503-1.
 
 
The Plan shall not be construed to require the Company to fund any of the benefits payable under the Plan or to set aside or earmark any monies or other assets specifically
 
for payments under the Plan. The Company shall pay its share of the expenses of the Plan as the Company may determine from time to time in the manner specified herein. The Company shall be liable for and shall pay its fair share of the expenses of operating the Plan and trust, if any, including its share of any trustee's fees. The amount of such charges to each employer shall be determined by the Company, in its sole discretion.
 
This Plan is "unfunded" and Supplemental Benefits payable hereunder shall be paid by the Company out of its general assets. Participants and their Beneficiaries shall not have any interest in any specific asset of the Company as a result of this Plan. Nothing contained in this Plan and no action taken pursuant to the provisions of this Plan shall create or be construed to create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary relationship amongst the Company, any employer, the Committee, and the Participants, their Beneficiaries or any other person. Any funds which may be invested under the provisions of this Plan shall continue for all purposes to be part of the general funds of the Company and no person other than the Company shall by virtue of the provisions of this Plan have any interest in such funds. To the extent that any person acquires a right to receive payments from the Company under this Plan, such right shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of the Company. The Company may, in its sole discretion, establish a "rabbi trust" to pay Supplemental Benefits hereunder. If the Company decides to establish any accrued reserve on its books against the future expense of benefits payable hereunder, or if a rabbi trust is established under this Plan, such reserve or trust shall not under any circumstances be deemed to be an asset of the Plan.
 
 
The benefits payable or other rights under the Plan shall not be subject to alienation, transfer, assignment, garnishment, execution, or levy of any kind, and any attempt to be so subjected shall not be recognized. Notwithstanding the foregoing, solely with respect to a Participant who has incurred a Termination of Employment and commenced receiving payment of Supplemental Benefits under the Plan, all or a portion of the Participant's Supplemental Benefits may be assigned pursuant to a domestic relations order that meets all of the following requirements:
 
 
 
 
 
The Expedia Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (the "EDCP") is "unfunded" and benefits payable under the EDCP shall be paid ("Expedia") out of the general assets of Expedia. The alternate payee shall not have any interest in any specific asset of Expedia or its affiliates as a result of this Plan. Nothing contained in the EDCP and no action taken pursuant to the provisions of the EDCP or this domestic relations order shall create or be construed to create a trust of any kind, or a fiduciary relationship among Expedia, the administrative committee for the EDCP, the participant and the alternate payee or any other person. Any funds that may be invested under the provisions of the EDCP shall continue for all purposes to be part of the general funds of Expedia and no person other than Expedia shall by virtue of the provisions of the EDCP or this domestic relations order have any interest in such funds. The alternate payee's rights under the EDCP shall be no greater than the right of any unsecured general creditor of Expedia. The benefits payable under the EDCP to the alternate payee shall not be subject to alienation, transfer, assignment, garnishment, execution or levy of any kind and any attempt to cause any benefits to be so subjected shall not be recognized.
 
Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, the Alternate Payee shall not have the right to elect a Distribution Form or Distribution Time.
 
 
(a) In the event that the Committee finds that a Participant is unable to care for his or her affairs because of illness or accident, then benefits payable hereunder, unless claim has been made therefor by a duly appointed guardian, committee, or other legal representative, may be paid in such manner as the Committee shall determine, and the application thereof shall be a complete discharge of all liability for any payments or benefits to which such Participant was or would have been otherwise entitled under this Plan.
 
(b) Any payments to a minor from this Plan may be paid by the Committee in its sole and absolute discretion (a) directly to such minor; (b) to the legal or natural guardian of such minor; or (c) to any other person, whether or not appointed guardian of the minor, who shall have the care and custody of such minor. The receipt by such individual shall be a complete discharge of all liability under the Plan therefor.
 
 
The Plan shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors and assigns and the Participants and their heirs, executors, administrators and legal representatives. In the event that the Company sells all or substantially all of the assets of its business and the acquiror of such assets assumes the obligations hereunder, the Company shall be released from any liability imposed herein and shall have no obligation to provide any benefits payable hereunder.
 
 
Nothing contained herein shall be construed as conferring upon an Employee the right to continue in the employ of the Company or its Affiliate's as an executive or in any other capacity or to interfere with the right of the Company or its Affiliate to discharge him or her at any time for any reason whatsoever.
 
 
On behalf of the Company, the Plan shall be administered by the Committee or, to the extent specifically permitted under the terms of the Plan, a designee of the Committee; provided that, if any authority to administer is delegated by the Committee, such administration shall be subject to the oversight of the Committee. The Committee (or its designee) shall have the exclusive right, power, and authority, in its sole and absolute discretion, to administer, apply and interpret the Plan and any other Plan documents and to decide all matters arising in connection with the operation or administration of the Plan. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Committee shall have the sole and absolute discretionary authority: (a) to take all actions and make all decisions with respect to the eligibility for, and the amount of, benefits payable under the Plan; (b) to formulate, interpret and apply rules, regulations and policies necessary to administer the Plan in accordance with its terms; (c) to decide questions, including legal or factual questions, relating to the calculation and payment of benefits under the Plan; (d) to resolve and/or clarify any ambiguities, inconsistencies and omissions arising under the Plan or other Plan documents; and (e) to process and approve or deny benefit claims and rule on any benefit exclusions. All determinations made by the Committee (or any designee) with respect to any matter arising under the Plan and any other Plan documents including, without limitation, any question concerning eligibility and the interpretation and administration of the Plan shall be final, binding and conclusive on all parties. To the extent that a form prescribed by the Committee to be used in the operation and administration of the Plan does not conflict with the terms and provisions of the Plan document, such form shall be evidence of (i) the Committee's interpretation, construction and administration of this Plan and (ii) decisions or rules made by the Committee pursuant to the authority granted to the Committee under the Plan.
 
Decisions of the Committee shall be made by a majority of its members attending a meeting at which a quorum is present (which meeting may be held telephonically), or by written action in accordance with applicable law.
 
No member of the Committee and no officer, director or employee of the Company or any other Affiliate shall be liable for any action or inaction with respect to his or her
 
functions under the Plan unless such action or inaction is adjudged to be due to fraud. Further, no such person shall be personally liable merely by virtue of any instrument executed by him or her or on his or her behalf in connection with the Plan.
 
The Company shall indemnify, to the fullest extent permitted by law and its Certificate of Incorporation and By-laws (but only to the extent not covered by insurance) its officers and directors (and any employee involved in carrying out the functions of the Company under the Plan) and each member of the Committee against any expenses, including amounts paid in settlement of a liability, which are reasonably incurred in connection with any legal action to which such person is a party by reason of his or her duties or responsibilities with respect to the Plan (other than as a Participant), except with regard to matters as to which he or she shall be adjudged in such action to be liable for fraud in the performance of his or her duties.
 
 
On behalf of the Company, the Board (or a duly authorized committee thereof) may, in its sole and absolute discretion, amend the Plan from time to time and at any time in such manner as it deems appropriate or desirable, and the Board (or a duly authorized committee thereof) may, in its sole and absolute discretion, terminate the Plan for any reason from time to time and at any time in such manner as it deems appropriate or desirable. In the event the Company terminates or freezes the Plan, there shall be no further accrual of Supplemental Benefits hereunder.
 
 
In case any provision of this Plan shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such invalidity or unenforceability shall not affect any other provisions hereof, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if such provisions had not been included.
 
 
This Plan, along with the Participant's elections hereunder, constitutes the entire agreement between the Company and the Participant pertaining to the subject matter herein and supersedes any other plan or agreement, whether written or oral, pertaining to the subject matter herein. No agreements or representations, other than as set forth herein, have been made by the Company with respect to the subject matter herein.
 
 
The headings and captions herein are provided for reference and convenience only. They shall not be considered part of the Plan and shall not be employed in the construction of the Plan.
 
 
The Plan is not an agreement of employment and it shall not grant an employee any rights of employment.
 
 
Except to the extent a plan otherwise provides, any Supplemental Benefits payable under this Plan shall not be deemed salary or other compensation to the Participant or Beneficiary for the purposes of computing benefits to which he or she may be entitled under any pension plan or other arrangement of the Company.
 
 
Wherever used in this Plan, the masculine shall be deemed to include the feminine and the singular shall be deemed to include the plural, unless the context clearly indicates otherwise.
 
 
The Plan is established in order to provide deferred compensation to a select group of management and highly compensated employees within the meanings of Sections 201(2) and 301(a)(3) of ERISA. The Plan is intended to comply with the requirements imposed under Section 409A of the Code and the provisions of the Plan shall be construed in a manner consistent with the requirements of such section of the Code. To the extent legally required, the Code and ERISA shall govern the Plan and, if any provision hereof is in violation of any applicable requirement thereof, the Company reserves the right to retroactively amend the Plan to comply therewith. To the extent not governed by the Code and ERISA, the Plan shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware without giving effect to conflict of law provisions.
 
, the Company has caused the Plan to be executed effective as of August 9, 2005.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
 


