FILE:EXPE/EXPE-8K-20050802080632.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 2, 2005, Expedia, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and wholly-owned subsidiary of IAC/InterActiveCorp ("IAC"), issued a press release announcing its financial results on a combined basis for the quarter ended June 30, 2005. The full text of this press release, appearing in Exhibit 99.1 hereto, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Basis of Presentation
 
On December 21, 2004, IAC announced its plan to separate into two independent public companies to better achieve certain strategic objectives of its various businesses. The spin-off is expected to be completed next week, with IAC and Expedia, Inc. beginning trading as independent public companies on August 9, 2005. Following the completion of the spin-off, Expedia, Inc. will consist of IAC's travel and travel-related businesses, subsidiaries and investments (other than Interval International and TV Travel Shop, which IAC will retain) and TripAdvisor (the "Expedia businesses"). The following discussion of the principles of financial reporting and attached combined historical financial results assume (i) the contribution or other transfer of all of the subsidiaries and assets relating to the Expedia businesses to Expedia, Inc., (ii) the assumption by Expedia, Inc. or one of its subsidiaries of all of the liabilities relating to the Expedia businesses and (iii) the allocation to Expedia, Inc. of certain IAC corporate expenses relating to the Expedia businesses for certain periods, certain of which will occur in connection the spin-off and certain of which are governed by the terms of the separation agreement Expedia, Inc. will enter into with IAC in connection with the spin-off. Please see the attached press release for further details on the basis of presentation.
 
Expedia, Inc.'s Principles of Financial Reporting
 
The attached document refers to non-GAAP measures, within the meaning of Regulation G. Below is additional information regarding those non-GAAP measures.
 
Expedia, Inc. reports Operating Income Before Amortization, Adjusted Net Income and Free Cash Flow, all of which are supplemental measures to GAAP. These measures are among the primary metrics by which management uses or anticipates it will use to evaluate the performance of Expedia, Inc., develop internal budgets and determine performance-related compensation for executive management. Management believes that investors should have access to the same set of tools that it uses in analyzing Expedia, Inc.'s results. These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for or superior to GAAP results. Investors are encouraged to examine the reconciling adjustments between the GAAP and non-GAAP measures as set forth in the exhibit attached hereto.
 
Definitions of Non-GAAP Measures
 
The following measures are defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission as non-GAAP financial measures.
 
is defined as operating income plus: (1) amortization of non-cash distribution and marketing expense, (2) amortization of non-cash compensation expense, (3) amortization of intangible assets and goodwill impairment, if applicable, and (4) certain one-time items, if applicable. Management believes this measure is useful to investors because it represents the combined operating results of Expedia, Inc.'s businesses, taking into account depreciation, which management believes is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the effects of other non-cash expenses. Operating
Operating Income Before Amortization
Income Before Amortization has certain limitations in that it does not take into account the impact to Expedia, Inc.'s statement of operations of certain expenses, including non-cash compensation, non-cash payments to partners and acquisition-related accounting. Due to the high variability and difficulty in predicting certain items that affect net income, such as interest rates and tax rates, Expedia, Inc. is unable to provide reconciliation to net income on a forward-looking basis without unreasonable efforts.
 
generally captures all items on the statement of operations that have been, or ultimately will be, settled in cash and is defined as net income available to common shareholders plus (1) amortization of non-cash distribution and marketing expense, (2) amortization of non-cash compensation expense, (3) amortization of intangible assets and goodwill impairment, if applicable, (4) one-time items, net of related tax, and minority interest and (5) discontinued operations, net of tax. Adjusted net income is useful to investors because it represents Expedia, Inc.'s combined results, taking into account depreciation, which management believes is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the impact of other non-cash expenses and items not directly tied to the recurring core operations of our businesses.
Adjusted Net Income
 
is defined as net cash flow provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. Management believes Free Cash Flow is useful to investors because it represents the cash that the Expedia, Inc. operating businesses generate, less capital expenditures but before taking into account other cash movements that are not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses, such as financing activities or certain investing activities. Free Cash Flow has certain limitations in that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period, nor does it represent the residual cash flow for discretionary expenditures. Therefore, it is important to evaluate Free Cash Flow along with the combined statements of cash flows.
Free Cash Flow
 
One-Time Items
 
Operating Income Before Amortization is presented before one-time items, if applicable. These items are expected to be non-recurring in nature, infrequent or unusual, and have not occurred in the past two years or are not expected to recur in the next two years, in accordance with SEC rules. GAAP results include one-time items. For the periods presented in the attached exhibit, Operating Income Before Amortization is not adjusted for any one-time items.
 
Non-Cash Expenses That Are Excluded From Expedia, Inc.'s Non-GAAP Measures
 
expense consists of restricted stock and options expense. This expense is not paid in cash. Following the completion of the spin-off from IAC, we intend to include the related shares in our fully-diluted shares outstanding calculation, which will have an impact on our GAAP and adjusted earnings per share.
Amortization of non-cash compensation
 
expense consists mainly of Hotels.com performance warrants issued to obtain distribution and non-cash advertising secured from Universal Television as part of the transaction pursuant to which Vivendi Universal Entertainment LLLP ("VUE") was created. The Hotels.com warrants were principally issued as part of its initial public offering, and management does not anticipate replicating these arrangements. The non-cash advertising from Universal is primarily for the benefit of Expedia, Inc., which runs television advertising primarily on the USA and Sci Fi cable channels without any cash cost. Expedia, Inc. does not expect to replace this non-cash marketing expense with an equivalent cash expense after it runs out, nor would Expedia, Inc. incur such amounts absent the advertising received in the VUE transaction.
Amortization of non-cash distribution and marketing
 
are non-cash expenses relating primarily to acquisitions. At the time of an acquisition, the intangible assets of the acquired company, such as supplier contracts and customer relationships, are valued and
Amortization of intangibles and goodwill impairment, if applicable,
amortized over their estimated lives. While it is likely that Expedia, Inc. will have significant intangible amortization expense as it continues to acquire companies, management believes that since intangibles represent costs incurred by the acquired company to build value prior to acquisition, they were part of transaction costs and will not be replaced with cash costs when the intangibles are fully amortized. Goodwill is not amortized but is instead assessed for impairment on a regular basis. Any impairment recognized would be a non-cash expense.
 
Free Cash Flow
 
Expedia, Inc. has significant positive working capital balances that benefit Free Cash Flow and are largely due to deferred merchant bookings related to the merchant lodging business. For these merchant lodging businesses, cash is collected in advance of stay, and revenue is recognized at the date of travel, after which hotel suppliers invoice Expedia and Hotels.com. Working capital consists of cash payments received from customers, plus or minus the net change in payables to hotel suppliers, less cash paid out to hotel suppliers during the period.
 
These balances are comparable to payable and receivable balances in any other company, except that the benefit, or "float," received is inherent in Expedia, Inc.'s business model. It is similar to any other cash inflow in the normal course of business. As long as the merchant lodging businesses continue to grow positively, as they have historically, and the business model does not change, management expects that the change in working capital will continue to be positive. All other conditions remaining the same, if the dollar growth in gross bookings from the merchant hotel businesses decreases from year to year, then the change in working capital, while still positive, will decrease from year to year, which will adversely affect free cash flow in comparison to the prior year. If the businesses were to decline or if the model otherwise changed adversely, it would negatively impact working capital.
 
Management considers Free Cash Flow as a measure of the strength and performance of Expedia, Inc.'s businesses, not for valuation purposes. In management's view, applying "multiples" to Free Cash Flow is inappropriate because it is subject to timing, seasonality and one-time events. Management manages the businesses for cash and believes it is of utmost importance to maximize cash availability. In addition, because Free Cash Flow is subject to timing, seasonality and one-time events, management does not believe it is appropriate to annualize quarterly Free Cash Flow results.
 
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
BELLEVUE, Wash.August 2, 2005Expedia, Inc. (NASDAQ: EXPEV) today announced financial results on a combined basis for the second quarter ended June 30, 2005.
 
The results and discussion which follow relate to the travel and travel-related businesses, subsidiaries and investments that will be contributed to Expedia, Inc. as part of the previously announced spin-off of Expedia, Inc. from IAC/InterActiveCorp (NASDAQ: IACI). The spin-off is expected to occur next week, with IAC and Expedia, Inc. beginning trading as independent public companies on August 9, 2005.
 
"Expedia, Inc.on its own as a stand alone travel services companybegins officially next Tuesday," said Barry Diller, Expedia, Inc.'s Chairman. "This first report of its operations more than substantiates the strength and growth of the business, and underscores why having it be pure to travel is in everyone's best interest, for those inside the Company and to its public shareholders and constituents."
 
"We had a strong quarter heading into our spin-off, as we built on our solid foundation as one of the world's leading travel service companies," said President and CEO, Dara Khosrowshahi. "We have a great team in place, our Expedia North American operations are executing solidly, and our gross bookings growth has increased sequentially over Q1 in our international businesses, as well as for the Hotels.com and Hotwire brands. The environment is as competitive as ever, but we are certainly up for it."
 
Financial Summary (figures in $MM's)
 
 
For more information regarding IAC, Expedia, Inc., the spin-off transaction and the basis of presentation for financial results contained in this release, please refer to "The Spin-Off" and "Basis of Presentation" sections below. Please also see "Definitions of Non-GAAP Measures" and "Tabular Reconciliation for Non-GAAP Measures" for an explanation of non-GAAP measures used throughout this release.
 
Discussion of Results
 
Gross bookings increased 26% for the second quarter 2005 compared with second quarter 2004. Domestic gross bookings increased 17%, and international gross bookings increased 73% versus the prior year quarter. Revenue grew 14% during the quarter, primarily driven by the international merchant hotel business, acquisitions and the air business. Revenue from domestic businesses grew 6%, and revenue from international businesses grew 58%.
 
Merchant hotel revenues increased 9% for the second quarter, driven primarily by an 8% increase in total merchant hotel room nights stayed, including rooms delivered as a component of packages. Revenue per room night was flat, resulting from a 5% increase in the average daily room rates, offset by a decrease in merchant hotel raw margins (defined as merchant hotel net revenue as a percent of gross bookings).
 
Air revenues increased 7% during the quarter, primarily from a 21% increase in air tickets sold, partially offset by an 11% decline in revenue per air ticket.
 
Expedia, Inc.'s domestic air and merchant hotel businesses operate in a challenging competitive environment, due primarily to increased competition from third party distributors, increased promotion by suppliers of their own websites and higher overall occupancy rates and load factors. This environment is generally expected to continue.
 
Operating income grew 31% during the quarter, and Operating Income Before Amortization grew 15%, driven by higher revenue due in part to acquisitions and lower sales and marketing expense as a percentage of revenue, partially offset by lower gross margins. Operating income growth exceeded Operating Income Before Amortization growth due to relatively flat amortization expenses. Selling and marketing expense grew by 10%, driven by a 60% increase in international selling and marketing expense as Expedia, Inc. focuses resources on building its international presence and recognition.
 
Net income increased by $25 million and adjusted net income by $23 million for the second quarter, both due primarily to the increase in operating income and interest income, offset by correspondingly higher taxes.
 
Revenue margins (defined as net revenue as a percentage of gross bookings) decreased by 144 basis points due primarily to lower air revenue per ticket, a higher mix of agency business and lower merchant hotel raw margins. In addition, increased fare prices per air ticket increased gross bookings without a corresponding increase in relatively fixed air revenues. Operating margins, however, remain strongOperating Income Before Amortization margin increased 16 basis points for the second quarter versus the prior year, and 147 basis points excluding the impact of a one-time reversal of a legal settlement benefiting second quarter 2004 results.
 
For the twelve months ended June 30, 2005, net cash provided by operating activities was $929 million. Free cash flow (net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures) was $876 million. Both net cash provided by operating activities and free cash flow for the twelve months ended June 30, 2005 include $205 million from the increase in accounts payable and accrued liabilities, and $148 million from the increase in deferred merchant bookings.
 
Recent Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The financial, statistical and other information contained herein is unaudited.
 
Income Statement Notes
 
Revenue
 
 
 
 
 
Cost of Revenue
 
 
 
 
Operating Expenses
 
 
 
 
Selling and Marketing
 
 
 
 
 
General and Administrative
 
 
 
 
 
Net Interest Income
 
 
 
Income Taxes
 
 
Foreign Exchange
 
 
 
Definitions of Non-GAAP Measures
 
The following measures are defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission as non-GAAP financial measures.
 
is defined as operating income plus: (1) amortization of non-cash distribution and marketing expense, (2) amortization of non-cash compensation expense, (3) amortization of intangible assets and goodwill impairment, if applicable and (4) certain one-time items, if applicable. Management believes this measure is useful to investors because it represents the combined operating results of Expedia, Inc.'s businesses, taking into account depreciation, which we believe is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the effects of other non-cash expenses. Operating Income Before Amortization has certain limitations in that it does not take into account the impact to Expedia, Inc.'s statement of operations of certain expenses, including non-cash compensation, non-cash payments to partners, and acquisition-related accounting.
Operating Income Before Amortization
 
generally captures all items on the statement of operations that have been, or ultimately will be, settled in cash and is defined as net income available to common shareholders plus (1) amortization of non-cash distribution and marketing expense, (2) amortization of non-cash compensation expense, (3) amortization of intangible assets and goodwill impairment, if applicable, (4) one-time items, net of related tax, and minority interest and (5) discontinued operations, net of tax. Adjusted net income is useful to investors because it represents Expedia, Inc.'s combined results, taking into account depreciation, which management believes is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the impact of other non-cash expenses and items not directly tied to the recurring core operations of our businesses.
Adjusted Net Income
 
is defined as net cash flow provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. Management believes Free Cash Flow is useful to investors because it represents the operating cash flow that our operating businesses generate, less capital expenditures but before taking into account other cash movements that are not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses, such as financing activities or certain investing activities. Free Cash Flow has certain limitations in that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period, nor does it represent the residual cash flow for discretionary expenditures. Therefore, it is important to evaluate Free Cash Flow along with the combined statements of cash flows.
Free Cash Flow
 
We endeavor to compensate for the limitation of the non-GAAP measures presented by also providing comparable GAAP measures, GAAP financial statements, and descriptions of the reconciling items and adjustments, to derive the non-GAAP measures.
 
Tabular Reconciliations For Non-GAAP Measures
 
Operating Income Before Amortization
 
 
Adjusted Net Income
 
 
Free Cash Flow
 
 
Conference Call
 
Expedia, Inc. will audiocast its conference call with investors and analysts discussing its second quarter financial results and certain forward looking information on Tuesday, August 2, 2005 at 11:30 a.m. Eastern Time (ET). The audiocast will be open to the public and available via http://www.iac.com/investors.html.
 
Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
 
This press release contains "forward looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include statements relating to Expedia, Inc.'s anticipated financial performance, business prospects, new developments, pending transactions and similar matters, and/or statements that use words such as "anticipates," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "plans," "believes" and similar expressions.
 
These forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. Actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements included in this report for a variety of reasons, including, among others: a failure to complete or material delay in completing the spin-off; adverse changes in senior management at Expedia, Inc. and/or its businesses; the rate of growth of the Internet and online travel; changes in global economic conditions, consumer spending, the competitive environment, the e-commerce industry and broadband access; world events; the rate of online migration in the various geographies and markets in which Expedia, Inc.'s businesses operate; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; the ability of Expedia, Inc. to expand successfully in international markets; possible one-time charges resulting from, among other events, integration activities, platform migration and shared services efforts; failure to realize cost efficiencies; the successful completion of pending corporate transactions and the integration of acquired businesses; and the integrity, security and redundancy of systems and networks of Expedia, Inc. and its businesses.
 
Certain of these and other risks and uncertainties are discussed in IAC's and Expedia, Inc.'s filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"). Other unknown or unpredictable factors also could have a material adverse effect on Expedia, Inc.'s business, financial condition and results of operations. In light of these risks and uncertainties, the forward-looking statements discussed in this press release may not occur. Accordingly, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward looking statements, which only reflect the views of Expedia, Inc.'s management as of the date of this press release.
 
Expedia, Inc. is not under any obligation and does not intend to publicly update or review any of these forward-looking statements contained in this press release, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, even if experience or future events make it clear that any expected results expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements will not be realized.
 
The Spin-Off
 
On December 21, 2004, IAC/InterActiveCorp. ("IAC") announced its plan to separate into two independent public companies in order to better achieve certain strategic objectives of its various businesses. In this release this transaction is referred to as the "spin-off" and the new company that will hold the travel and travel-related businesses of IAC as "Expedia, Inc." Following the completion of the spin-off, Expedia, Inc. will consist of IAC's travel and travel-related businesses, subsidiaries and investments (other than Interval International and TV Travel Shop, which IAC will retain) and TripAdvisor (collectively the "Expedia businesses").
 
On July 19, 2005 at IAC's annual meeting of shareholders, IAC's shareholders approved the spin-off of Expedia, Inc. and the related proposals submitted. The spin-off is expected to occur next week, with IAC and Expedia, Inc. beginning trading as independent public companies on August 9, 2005. It is anticipated that Expedia, Inc. will trade on the NASDAQ, under the symbol "EXPE."
 
In connection with the proposed spin-off, IAC and Expedia, Inc., filed a proxy statement/prospectus with the SEC which contains important information about IAC, Expedia, Inc., the spin-off and related matters. Investors and security holders
 
can obtain free copies of the proxy statements/prospectuses and other documents filed by IAC and Expedia, Inc. with the SEC in connection with the proposed spin-off transaction at the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov.
 
In addition to the proxy statement/prospectus, IAC files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC, each of which should be available at the SEC's web site at www.sec.gov. You may also read and copy any reports, statements and other information filed by IAC and Expedia, Inc. at the SEC public reference room at 450 Fifth Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information.
 
Basis of Presentation
 
In connection with the spin-off, Expedia, Inc. was incorporated as a Delaware corporation in April 2005. Following the completion of the spin-off, Expedia, Inc. will consist of IAC's travel and travel-related businesses, subsidiaries and investments (other than Interval International and TV Travel Shop, which IAC will retain) and TripAdvisor.
 
The combined historical financial results included as part of this release assume (i) the contribution or other transfer of all of the subsidiaries and assets relating to the Expedia businesses to Expedia, Inc., (ii) the assumption by Expedia, Inc. or one of its subsidiaries of all of the liabilities relating to the Expedia businesses and (iii) the allocation to Expedia, Inc. of certain IAC corporate expenses relating to the Expedia businesses for certain periods, certain of which will occur in connection with the spin-off and certain of which are governed by the terms of the separation agreement Expedia, Inc. will enter into with IAC in connection with the spin-off. For a description of the separation agreement, as well as other agreements that Expedia, Inc. will enter into with IAC in connection with the spin-off, please refer to the proxy statements/prospectuses on file with the SEC.
 
Accordingly, the combined historical financial statements of Expedia, Inc. reflect the historical financial position, results of operations and cash flows of the Expedia businesses since their respective dates of acquisition by IAC, based on the historical consolidated financial statements and accounting records of IAC and using the historical results of operations and historical bases of the assets and liabilities of the Expedia businesses with the exception of accounting for income taxes, which for purposes of these financial statements have been computed for Expedia, Inc. on a separate tax return basis. These financial statements are prepared on a combined, rather than a consolidated, basis because no direct ownership relationship existed among any or all the various businesses comprising Expedia, Inc. Significant intercompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated. In order to reflect the legal form of IAC's and its subsidiaries ownership of the Expedia businesses, these combined financial statements present IAC's and its subsidiaries net investment in Expedia, Inc. as invested equity in lieu of stockholders' equity.
 
Expedia, Inc.'s management believes that the assumptions underlying the combined historical financial statements of Expedia, Inc. are reasonable. However, this financial information does not necessarily reflect the future financial position, results of operations and cash flows of Expedia, Inc. nor does it reflect what the historical financial position, results of operations and cash flows of Expedia, Inc. would have been had Expedia, Inc. been a stand alone company during the periods presented.
 
The combined historical financial statements of Expedia, Inc. include allocations by IAC to Expedia, Inc. of certain IAC corporate expenses relating to the Expedia businesses from their respective dates of acquisition by IAC. General allocable corporate overhead has been allocated based on the ratio of Expedia, Inc.'s revenues as a percentage of IAC's total revenue. General allocated corporate overhead, which primarily includes expenses relating to accounting, treasury, legal, tax, corporate support, human resource functions and internal audit, amounted to $2.5 million and $4.1 million for the three and six months ended June 30, 2005, and $1.9 million and $3.8 million for the corresponding periods in 2004. It is not practicable to determine the amounts of these expenses that would have been incurred had Expedia, Inc. operated as an unaffiliated entity. In the opinion of management of Expedia, Inc. the allocation method is reasonable. Following the completion of the spin-off, Expedia, Inc. will perform these functions using its own resources or purchased services.
 
The calculations of Expedia, Inc.'s income taxes (on a combined basis for all of the Expedia businesses) are on an as if stand-alone, separate tax return basis. These calculations reflect what Expedia, Inc.'s estimated historical income taxes would have been had Expedia, Inc. been a stand-alone company during the periods presented. Expedia, Inc. has been a
 
member of the IAC consolidated federal and state tax returns since August 2003 and has filed in certain states with IAC on a combined or unitary basis since 2002. In all periods presented, current and deferred tax expense has been computed for Expedia, Inc. on an as if separate tax return basis. IAC has reimbursed Expedia, Inc. for its net operating losses and tax credits that were utilized in the IAC consolidated tax returns. These calculations do not necessarily reflect what Expedia, Inc.'s future income taxes will be, nor do they reflect tax strategies that Expedia, Inc. would have followed or will follow on an as if stand-alone entity basis, given that its tax position was being managed by IAC for the benefit of IAC on a consolidated basis. The respective rights, responsibilities and obligations of Expedia, Inc. and IAC after the spin-off with respect to taxes for the periods ending on or before the spin-off will be governed by a tax sharing agreement, which agreement is incorporated in the proxy statements/prospectuses on file with the SEC.
 
About IAC/InterActiveCorp
 
IAC operates leading and diversified businesses in sectors being transformed by the Internet, online and offline. Its mission is to harness the power of interactivity to make daily life easier and more productive for people all over the world. To view a full list of the companies of IAC please visit http://iac.com.
 
About Expedia, Inc.
 
Expedia, Inc. is among the world's leading travel service companies, making travel products and services available to leisure and corporate travelers in the United States and abroad through a diversified portfolio of brands, including Expedia.com, Hotels.com, Hotwire, Expedia Corporate Travel, Classic Custom Vacations and a range of other domestic and international brands and businesses.
 
Contacts
 
Expedia, Inc. Investor Relations
Stu Haas
(425) 679-7852
ir@expedia.com
 
Expedia, Inc. Corporate Communications
Jason Reindorp
(425) 679-7396
 


