FILE:EXPE/EXPE-8K-20051103161757.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On November 3, 2005, Expedia, Inc., a Delaware corporation, issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2005. The full text of this press release, appearing in Exhibit 99.1 hereto, is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
BELLEVUE, Wash.November 3, 2005Expedia, Inc. (Nasdaq: EXPE) today announced financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2005.
 
"Expedia, Inc. delivered solid bookings and profit growth in its foundational quarter as an independent public company," said Expedia, Inc. Chairman Barry Diller. "With over $15 billion in gross bookings and more than $2 billion in revenue over the last twelve months, the Company has established itself as a premier e-tailer and travel company with truly global aspirations."
 
"Our continued investments in improving our customer experience and supplier relationships have paid off this quarter in our fastest merchant hotel revenue growth since the third quarter of 2004," said Dara Khosrowshahi, Expedia, Inc.'s CEO and President. "We have continued on that path in the second half of 2005 by re-designing our Expedia.com and Hotels.com sites to improve ease of use and launching our biggest holiday promotion ever  our customers save $150 off the vacation they really want to take next year by booking their holiday travel with Expedia.com."
 
Financial Summary (figures in $MM's)
 
 
 
Discussion of Results
 
Gross Bookings & Revenue
 
Gross bookings increased 21% for the third quarter 2005 compared with third quarter 2004, with domestic gross bookings up 16% and international gross bookings up 39% versus the prior year quarter. Our results were impacted by hurricane and terrorist activity during the quarter.
 
Revenue grew 16% during the quarter, primarily driven by increased worldwide merchant hotel revenue, acquisitions and growth in our car rental business. Third quarter domestic revenue increased 10%, and international revenue grew 43%.
 
Worldwide merchant hotel revenue increased 15%, the highest rate of growth since third quarter 2004. The increase was fueled by 13% growth in room nights stayed, including rooms delivered as a component of vacation packages. Revenue per room night increased 2%, resulting from a 7% increase in average daily rates ("ADRs"), partially offset by a decrease in hotel margins (defined as hotel net revenue as a percentage of hotel gross bookings).
 
Worldwide air revenues increased 3% during the quarter, due to a 13% increase in air tickets sold, partially offset by a 9% decline in revenue per air ticket.
 
Revenue as a percentage of gross bookings ("revenue margin") was 14.8% for the third quarter, down 58 basis points compared with third quarter 2004, due primarily to lower domestic air revenue per ticket and lower domestic hotel margins, partially offset by higher margins in our car rental and destination services businesses. In addition, average airfares increased 7% year-over-year, which has the effect of increasing gross bookings without a corresponding increase in our per ticket air revenues.
 
Revenue margin was up 144 basis points sequentially compared with second quarter 2005 due to seasonality, a higher mix of merchant hotel business, lower airfares and higher margins in our car rental and destination services businesses.
 
Profitability
 
Gross profit for the third quarter was $457 million, up $58 million, or 14% from third quarter 2004. Gross margin was down 112 basis points to 78.1%, 92 basis points of which were due to our February 2005 acquisition of a destination services company which historically has had lower gross margins than our core business.
 
Operating Income Before Amortization ("OIBA") grew 15% to $184 million, driven by higher revenue and lower sales and marketing expense as a percentage of revenue, partially offset by lower gross margin and higher general and administrative and technology and content expense as a percentage of sales. OIBA growth was 18% excluding the prior year benefit of a $4.4 million net adjustment primarily for the reversal of an excise tax reserve.
 
Operating income grew 85% during the quarter to $149 million. Operating income growth significantly exceeded OIBA growth primarily due to a $30 million net credit adjustment to non-cash compensation due largely to a change in estimate in our expected forfeiture rate for equity awards and a decrease in non-cash compensation from year-ago levels.
 
Adjusted net income and net income for the third quarter 2005 compared to the same period in 2004 increased by $17 million and $24 million respectively, both due primarily to increases in operating income and interest income, partially offset by correspondingly higher taxes. Additionally, net income was reduced by $23 million due to a write-off of an investment, partially offset by unrealized gains of $12 million on derivative liabilities. Adjusted EPS was $0.35 for the third quarter, and diluted EPS was $0.23.
 
For additional information on the adjustment to non-cash compensation, the investment write-off and our derivative liabilities, please see the "Income Statement Notes" and "Balance Sheet Notes" elsewhere in this release.
 
Cash Flows & Working Capital
 
For the nine months ended September 30, 2005, net cash provided by operating activities was $944 million. Free cash flow (a non-GAAP measure which equals net cash provided by operating activities less capital expenditures) was $903 million. Both net cash provided by operating activities and free cash flow for the nine months ended September 30, 2005 include $543 million from the change in accounts payable, accrued liabilities and deferred merchant bookings.
 
Quarterly Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Income Statement Notes
 
Revenue
 
 
 
 
 
Expense Reclassifications
 
 
Cost of Revenue
 
 
 
Operating Expenses
 
 
 
 
Selling and Marketing
 
 
 
 
General and Administrative
 
 
 
Technology and Content
 
 
 
Amortization of Non-Cash Compensation Expense
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Net Interest Income
 
 
Income Taxes
 
 
 
 
 
Foreign Exchange
 
 
 
Acquisitions & Investments
 
 
 
 
Balance Sheet Notes
 
Cash, Cash Equivalents, Current Restricted Cash and Marketable Securities
 
 
 
Receivables from IAC/InterActiveCorp.
 
 
Accounts & Notes Receivable
 
 
 
Prepaid Expenses
 
 
Goodwill & Intangible Assets, net
 
 
 
Long-Term Investments and Other
 
 
Deferred Merchant Bookings and Accounts Payable, Merchant
 
 
 
 
 
Revolving Credit Facility
 
 
 
Derivative Liabilities
 
 
 
 
Series A Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock ("Preferred Stock")
 
 
Expedia Class B Common Stock
 
 
 
 
Warrants
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notes & Definitions:
 
 Total retail value of transactions booked for both agency and merchant transactions, recorded at the time of booking. Bookings include the total price due for travel by customers, including taxes, fees and other charges.
Gross Bookings
 
 Quantity of purchases reported as booked, net of cancellations. Packages purchased using our packages wizard, which by definition include a merchant hotel, are recorded as a single transaction.
Number of Transactions
 
 Worldwide merchant hotel nights, net of cancellations. With the exception of Hotwire, nights are reported as stayed. This metric includes nights stayed on both a package and stand-alone basis.
Merchant Hotel Room Nights
 
Definitions of Non-GAAP Measures
 
The following measures are defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission as non-GAAP financial measures.
 
is defined as operating income plus: (1) amortization of non-cash distribution and marketing expense, (2) amortization of non-cash compensation expense, (3) amortization of intangible assets and goodwill impairment, if applicable and (4) certain one-time items, if applicable. Management believes this measure is useful to investors because it represents the combined operating results of Expedia, Inc.'s businesses, taking into account depreciation, which we believe is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the effects of other non-cash expenses. Operating Income Before Amortization has certain limitations in that it does not take into account the impact to Expedia, Inc.'s statements of income of certain expenses, including non-cash compensation, non-cash payments to partners, and acquisition-related accounting. Due to the high variability and difficulty in predicting certain items that affect net income, such as interest rates and tax rates, Expedia, Inc. is unable to provide reconciliation to net income on a forward-looking basis without unreasonable efforts.
Operating Income Before Amortization
 
generally captures all items on the statements of income that have been, or ultimately will be, settled in cash and is defined as net income available to common stockholders plus (1) amortization of non-cash distribution and marketing expense, (2) amortization of non-cash compensation expense, (3) amortization of intangible assets and goodwill impairment, if applicable, (4) one-time items, net of related tax, and minority interest, (5) mark to market gains and losses on derivative liabilities and (6) discontinued operations, net of tax. We believe Adjusted Net Income is useful to investors because it represents Expedia, Inc.'s combined results, taking into account depreciation, which management believes is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the impact of other non-cash expenses and items not directly tied to the recurring core operations of our businesses.
Adjusted Net Income
 
is defined as Adjusted Net Income divided by weighted fully diluted shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS purposes. We include dilution from options and warrants per the treasury stock method and include all shares relating to restricted stock units ("RSU") in shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS. This differs from the GAAP method for including RSUs, which treats them on a treasury method basis. Shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS purposes are therefore higher than shares outstanding for GAAP EPS purposes. We believe Adjusted EPS is useful to investors because it represents, on a per share basis, Expedia's consolidated results, taking into account depreciation, which we believe is an ongoing cost of doing business, as well as other charges which are not allocated to the operating businesses such as interest expense, taxes and minority interest, but excluding the effects of other non-cash expenses not directly tied to the recurring core operations of our businesses. Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted EPS have the same limitations as Operating Income Before Amortization. Therefore, we think it is important to evaluate these measures along with our consolidated statements of income.
Adjusted EPS
 
is defined as net cash flow provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. Management believes Free Cash Flow is useful to investors because it represents the operating cash flow that our operating businesses generate, less capital expenditures but before taking into account other cash movements that are not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses, such as financing activities or certain investing activities. Free Cash Flow has certain limitations in that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period, nor does it represent the residual cash flow for discretionary expenditures. Therefore, it is important to evaluate Free Cash Flow along with the consolidated statements of cash flows.
Free Cash Flow
 
We endeavor to compensate for the limitation of the non-GAAP measures presented by also providing comparable GAAP measures, GAAP financial statements, and descriptions of the reconciling items and adjustments, to derive the non-GAAP measures.
 
Tabular Reconciliations for Non-GAAP Measures
(figures in $000s)
 
Operating Income Before Amortization
 
 
Adjusted Net Income & EPS
 
 
Free Cash Flow
 
 
Conference Call
 
Expedia, Inc. will audiocast its conference call with investors and analysts discussing its third quarter financial results and certain forward-looking information on Thursday, November 3, 2005 at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time (PT). The audiocast will be open to the public and available via http://www.expediainc.com/ir.
 
Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
 
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. These forward-looking statements are based on management's current expectations and assumptions which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. The use of words such as "anticipates," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "plans" and "believes," among others, generally identify forward-looking statements. However, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements and may include statements relating to future revenues, expenses, margins, profitability, net income, earnings per share and other measures of results of operation and the prospects for future growth of Expedia, Inc.'s business.
 
Actual results and the timing and outcome of events may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, among others: Expedia, Inc.'s ability to effectively update, automate and integrate disparate financial and accounting systems and approaches among its brands and businesses; adverse changes in senior management; the rate of growth of the Internet and online travel; changes in global economic conditions, consumer spending, the competitive environment, the e-commerce industry and broadband access; world events (including adverse weather, health risks or terrorism); the rate of online migration in the various geographies and markets in which Expedia, Inc. operates; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; the ability to effectively operate the newly consolidated businesses as an independent entity from IAC/InterActiveCorp; the health of the travel industry, including consumer and business spending on travel; Expedia, Inc.'s ability to expand successfully in international markets; possible one-time charges resulting from, among other events, integration activities, platform migration and shared services efforts; failure to realize cost efficiencies; the successful completion of pending corporate transactions and the integration of acquired businesses; the accuracy, integrity, security and redundancy of systems, including financial and accounting systems, and networks of Expedia, Inc.; and other risks detailed in Expedia, Inc.'s public filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including Expedia, Inc.'s amended Registration Statement on Form S-4 (Commission file number 333-124303-01), filed on June 17, 2005. Except as required by law, Expedia, Inc. undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking or other statements in this press release, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
Basis of Presentation
 
On December 21, 2004, IAC announced its plan to separate into two independent public companies in order to better achieve certain strategic objectives of its various businesses. This transaction is referred to as the "Spin-Off."
 
On August 9, 2005, Expedia, Inc. became an independent public company and began trading on the Nasdaq under the symbol "EXPE." These unaudited consolidated financial statements present our results of operations, financial position, stockholders' equity and cash flows of Expedia, Inc. on a combined basis up through the Spin-Off and on a consolidated basis thereafter. The unaudited financial statements relating to periods prior to August 9, 2005 were prepared on a combined basis because there was no direct ownership relationship among any or all of the businesses that comprised Expedia, Inc. upon Spin-Off.
 
About Expedia, Inc.
 
Expedia, Inc. is one of the world's leading travel service companies. With its portfolio of leading travel brands, Expedia, Inc. empowers business and leisure travelers with the tools and information they need to easily research, plan, book and experience travel. The Company also provides wholesale travel to offline retail travel agents. Expedia, Inc.'s main companies include: Expedia.com, Hotels.com, Hotwire, Expedia Corporate Travel, TripAdvisor and Classic Vacations. Expedia, Inc.'s companies also operate internationally with sites in Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Italy, the Netherlands and China, through its investment in eLong. For more information visit www.expediainc.com. (Nasdaq: EXPE).
 
Contacts
 
 


