FILE:EXPE/EXPE-8K-20060511163334.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On May 11, 2006, Expedia, Inc., a Delaware corporation, issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2006. The full text of this press release, appearing in Exhibit 99.1 hereto, is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
99.1      Press release of Expedia, Inc., dated May 11, 2006.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
99.1      Press release of Expedia, Inc., dated May 11, 2006.

 
Exhibit 99.1
BELLEVUE, Wash.May 11, 2006Expedia, Inc. (NASDAQ: EXPE) today announced financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2006.
"While we anticipated negative growth in the first half of 2006, our performance this quarter was far below those expectations," said Barry Diller, Expedia, Inc. Chairman and Senior Executive. "We increased costs in many sectorsnecessarily we believe for our long term growthbut didn't generate the revenues to offset the increased expenses. We believe little has changed fundamentallyExpedia remains the largest and most profitable online travel agent in the world, and while 2006 is going to be a challenging year, we don't think long-term shareholder value and returns are in question. With that in mind, our Board of Directors has authorized a buyback of up to 20 million shares of our common stock."
"Needless to say we are disappointed with our financial performance this quarter, and we are focused on tactical actions including a shift of our marketing approachto drive improvement in our results for the balance of the year," said Dara Khosrowshahi, Expedia, Inc.'s CEO and President. "At the same time, we continue to make real strides in our integration, data warehouse and technology platform efforts, which we anticipate will yield the bulk of their benefit in 2007 and 2008."
 
Discussion of Results
Gross bookings increased 14% for the first quarter 2006 compared with first quarter 2005. Domestic gross bookings increased 10% and international gross bookings increased 26%, or 34% excluding the impact of year-over-year changes in foreign exchange. Domestic gross bookings were negatively impacted by a decrease in shoppers, particularly in our vacation packages business.
Gross Bookings & Revenue
Revenue increased 2% for the quarter, primarily driven by increased worldwide merchant hotel and advertising revenues, partially offset by a decline in our worldwide agency air revenue. First quarter domestic revenue declined 4% and international revenue grew 24%, or 35% excluding the impact of foreign exchange. Domestic revenue was negatively impacted by the decrease in shoppers and a lower revenue margin.
Worldwide merchant hotel revenue increased 3% for the first quarter, driven by 11% growth in room nights stayed, including rooms delivered as a component of vacation packages, partially offset by a 7% decrease in revenue per room night from a contraction in hotel raw margins (defined as hotel net revenue as a percentage of hotel gross bookings).
 
Worldwide average daily rates ("ADRs") were flat during the first quarter, reflecting the impact of foreign exchange on international ADRs.
Worldwide air revenues decreased 7% for the quarter, due to a 9% decrease in revenue per air ticket as airlines continued to pressure their commission payments to agencies. Air tickets sold increased 3%, reflecting challenges in obtaining air inventory in both our agency and merchant air businesses in light of record industry load factors, and the continued reduction in domestic capacity of carriers participating in our marketplace. Lower availability of merchant air inventory also impacted our packages revenue, which was flat for first quarter 2006 compared with the prior year period.
Revenue as a percentage of gross bookings ("revenue margin") was 10.6% for the first quarter, down 125 basis points compared with first quarter 2005. Domestic revenue margin was down 154 basis points to 10.6%, while international was down 22 basis points to 10.8%. The first quarter decline in worldwide revenue margin was due to declines in domestic hotel raw margin and domestic air revenue per ticket. In addition, average worldwide airfares increased 9% year-over-year, which has the effect of increasing gross bookings without a corresponding increase in per ticket air revenues, as our remuneration generally does not vary with the price of the ticket.
Gross profit for first quarter 2006 was $375 million, up 1% compared with first quarter 2005 due to the increase in revenue and lower stock-based compensation expense related to cost of revenue. This was partially offset by a 63 basis point decline in gross margin to 75.8%, largely due to the full quarter inclusion of lower gross margin revenue from a destination services provider acquired in February 2005.
Profitability
Operating Income Before Amortization ("OIBA") for the first quarter decreased by 35% to $89 million, driven by higher operating expenses, particularly selling and marketing and general and administrative expenses. OIBA as a percentage of revenue was down over ten percentage points to 17.9%, primarily reflecting higher growth in operating expenses as compared to revenue growth during the quarter, and to a lesser extent lower gross margin. Operating income declined 60% during the quarter to $26 million, driven by the same factors which negatively impacted OIBA, as well as an $8 million increase in amortization of non-cash distribution and marketing, partially offset by a decline in stock-based compensation due to lower options expense.
Adjusted net income and net income for the first quarter decreased by $36 million and $25 million, respectively, compared to the same period in 2005. Adjusted net income declined due to lower OIBA and lower interest income. Net income declined due to lower operating income and interest income. Adjusted EPS was $0.15 for the first quarter, and diluted EPS was $0.06. Both EPS measures were down significantly versus the prior year, primarily due to lower income, with some impact from higher share counts.
For the three months ended March 31, 2006, net cash provided by operating activities was $454 million and free cash flow was $441 million. Both measures include $349 million from changes in working capital, primarily driven by our merchant hotel business.
Cash Flows & Working Capital
Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
Income Statement Notes
Revenue
Cost of Revenue
Operating Expenses
Selling and Marketing
General and Administrative
 
Technology and Content
Stock-Based Compensation Expense
Net Interest Income
Income Taxes
Foreign Exchange, Acquisition
 
Balance Sheet Notes
Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Restricted Cash
Accounts Receivable
Prepaid Merchant Bookings, Prepaid Expenses and Other Current Assets
Goodwill, Intangible Assets, net
Deferred Merchant Bookings and Accounts Payable, Merchant
Short-term Borrowings
Other Current Liabilities
 
Derivative Liabilities
Minority Interest
Expedia Class B Common Stock
Warrants
Stock-Based Awards  Outstanding & Granted
Fully-Diluted Shares
 
 Total retail value of transactions booked for both agency and merchant transactions, recorded at the time of booking. Bookings include the total price due for travel by travelers, including taxes, fees and other charges, and are not reduced for some cancellations and traveler refunds.  Quantity of purchases reported as booked, net of cancellations. Packages purchased using our packages wizard, which by definition include a merchant hotel, are recorded as a single transaction.  Worldwide merchant hotel nights, net of cancellations. With the exception of Hotwire, which records room nights upon booking, nights are reported as stayed. This metric includes nights stayed on both a package and stand-alone basis.
Notes & Definitions:
Gross Bookings
Number of Transactions
Merchant Hotel Room Nights
 
Definitions of Non-GAAP Measures
Expedia, Inc. reports Operating Income Before Amortization, Adjusted Net Income, Adjusted EPS and Free Cash Flow, all of which are supplemental measures to GAAP, and are defined by the SEC as non-GAAP financial measures. These measures are among the primary metrics by which management evaluates the performance of the business, on which internal budgets are based and by which management is compensated. Management believes that investors should have access to the same set of tools that management uses to analyze our results. These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for or superior to GAAP. We endeavor to compensate for the limitation of the non-GAAP measures presented by also providing comparable GAAP measures, GAAP financial statements, and descriptions of the reconciling items and adjustments, to derive the non-GAAP measures.
is defined as operating income plus: (1) amortization of non-cash distribution and marketing expense, (2) stock-based compensation expense, (3) amortization of intangible assets and goodwill impairment, if applicable and (4) certain one-time items, if applicable. OIBA represents the combined operating results of Expedia, Inc.'s businesses, taking into account depreciation, which we believe is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the effects of other non-cash expenses that may not be indicative of our core business operations. Management believes this measure is useful to investors because it corresponds more closely to the cash operating income generated from our core operations by excluding significant non-cash operating expenses, it aids in forecasting and analyzing future operating income as stock-based compensation, amortization of intangibles and non-cash distribution and marketing expenses are likely to decline significantly going forward and because it provides greater insight into management decision making at Expedia, as OIBA is our primary internal metric for evaluating the performance of our businesses. OIBA has certain limitations in that it does not take into account the impact to Expedia, Inc.'s statements of income of certain expenses, including non-cash compensation, non-cash payments to partners, and acquisition-related accounting. Due to the high variability and difficulty in predicting certain items that affect net income, such as tax rates and interest rates, Expedia, Inc. is unable to provide reconciliation to net income on a forward-looking basis without unreasonable efforts.
Operating Income Before Amortization ("OIBA")
generally captures all items on the statements of income that have been, or ultimately will be, settled in cash and is defined as net income available to stockholders plus (1) amortization of non-cash distribution and marketing expense, (2) stock-based compensation expense, (3) amortization of intangible assets and goodwill impairment, if applicable, (4) one-time items, net of related tax, and minority interest, (5) mark to market gains and losses on derivative liabilities and (6) discontinued operations, net of tax. We believe Adjusted Net Income is useful to investors because it represents Expedia, Inc.'s combined results, taking into account depreciation, which management believes is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the impact of other non-cash expenses and items not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses.
Adjusted Net Income
is defined as Adjusted Net Income divided by weighted fully diluted shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS purposes. We include dilution from options and warrants per the treasury stock method and include all shares relating to RSUs in shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS. This differs from the GAAP method for including RSUs, which treats them on a treasury method basis. Shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS purposes are therefore higher than shares outstanding for GAAP EPS purposes. We believe Adjusted EPS is useful to investors because it represents, on a per share basis, Expedia's consolidated results, taking into account depreciation, which we believe is an ongoing cost of doing business, as well as other charges which are not allocated to the operating businesses such as interest expense, taxes and minority interest, but excluding the effects of other non-cash expenses not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses. Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted EPS have the same limitations as OIBA. In addition, Adjusted Net Income does not include all items that affect our net income and net income per share for the period. Therefore, we think it is important to evaluate these measures along with our consolidated statements of income.
Adjusted EPS
is defined as net cash flow provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. Management believes Free Cash Flow is useful to investors because it represents the operating cash flow that our operating businesses generate, less capital expenditures but before taking into account other cash movements that are not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses, such as financing activities or certain investing activities. Free Cash Flow has certain limitations in that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period, nor does it
Free Cash Flow
 
represent the residual cash flow for discretionary expenditures. Therefore, it is important to evaluate Free Cash Flow along with the consolidated statements of cash flows.
Tabular Reconciliations for Non-GAAP Measures
Operating Income Before Amortization
Adjusted Net Income & Adjusted EPS
Free Cash Flow
 
Conference Call
Expedia, Inc. will audiocast its conference call with investors and analysts discussing its first quarter financial results and certain forward-looking information on Thursday, May 11, 2006 at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time (PT). The audiocast will be open to the public and available via http://www.expediainc.com/ir. Expedia, Inc. expects to maintain access to the audiocast on the IR website for approximately one month subsequent to the initial broadcast.
Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. These forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations as of May 11, 2006, and assumptions which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. The use of words such as "anticipates," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "plans" and "believes," among others, generally identify forward-looking statements. However, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements and may include statements relating to future revenues, expenses, margins, profitability, net income, earnings per share and other measures of results of operation and the prospects for future growth of Expedia, Inc.'s business.
Actual results and the timing and outcome of events may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, among others: Expedia, Inc.'s ability to effectively update, automate and integrate disparate financial and accounting systems and approaches among its brands and businesses; the accuracy, integrity, security and redundancy of systems, including financial and accounting systems, and networks of Expedia, Inc.; reliance on newly implemented systems supporting our financial planning and projections; adverse changes in senior management; the rate of growth of the Internet and online travel; changes in global economic conditions; consumer spending, the competitive environment; the e-commerce industry and broadband access; world events (including adverse weather, health risks and terrorism); the rate of online migration in the various geographies and markets in which Expedia, Inc. operates, including Asia; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; the health of the travel industry, including consumer and business spending on travel; Expedia, Inc.'s ability to expand successfully in international markets; possible charges resulting from, among other events, integration and process review activities, platform migration and shared services efforts; failure to realize cost efficiencies; the successful completion of any pending corporate transactions and the integration of current and acquired businesses; and other risks detailed in Expedia, Inc.'s public filings with the SEC, including Expedia, Inc.'s Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005.
Except as required by law, Expedia, Inc. undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking or other statements in this press release, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Basis of Presentation
On August 9, 2005, IAC separated into two separate companies. As a result, Expedia, Inc. became a separate public company (the "Spin-Off"). These financial statements present results of operations, financial position and cash flows on a combined basis until the Spin-Off and on a consolidated basis thereafter. The unaudited financial statements relating to periods prior to August 9, 2005 were prepared on a combined basis because there was no direct ownership relationship among any or all of the businesses that comprised Expedia, Inc. upon Spin-Off.
About Expedia, Inc.
Expedia, Inc. is the world's leading online travel company, empowering business and leisure travelers with the tools and information they need to easily research, plan, book, and experience travel. Expedia, Inc. also provides wholesale travel to offline retail travel agents. Expedia, Inc.'s portfolio of brands include: Expedia.com, Hotels.com , Hotwire, Expedia Corporate Travel, TripAdvisor and Classic Vacations. Expedia, Inc.'s companies also operate internationally with sites in Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Australia and China, through its investment in eLong. For more information, visit http://www.expediainc.com. (NASDAQ: EXPE).
 
Expedia, Expedia.com, Enjoy Your Trip and the Airplane logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Expedia, Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. Hotels.com, the Hotels.com logo, and We Know Hotels Inside And Out are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Hotels.com, LLP in the U.S. and/or other countries. Hotwire and the Hotwire logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Hotwire, Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. TripAdvisor, the TripAdvisor logo, and the Owl Logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks in the U.S. and/or other countries of Trip Advisor LLC. Other product and company names mentioned herein may be trademarks of their respective owners.
Contacts
2006 Expedia, Inc. All rights reserved. CST 2029030-40.


