FILE:EXPE/EXPE-8K-20061031171322.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On October 31, 2006, Expedia, Inc. (the "Company") entered into an employment agreement (the "Adler Employment Agreement") and a Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (the "Adler RSU Agreement") with Michael B. Adler, the Company's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. The Company previously reported the appointment of Mr. Adler in its Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 6, 2006. The April 6, 2006 Current Report on Form 8-K disclosed material terms of the employment arrangements between Mr. Adler and the Company, including the award of the restricted stock units further described below. The Company memorialized these arrangements and additional matters in the Adler Employment Agreement and the Adler RSU Agreement. The Adler Employment Agreement is effective as of May 16, 2006 for a term of three years. A summary of key terms of the Adler Employment Agreement and the Adler RSU Agreement follows:
     During the term, Mr. Adler will receive an annual base salary of $375,000 and will be eligible to receive a discretionary annual bonus. In addition, Mr. Adler received a signing bonus of $250,000, which is subject to forfeiture if the Company terminates Mr. Adler's employment for Cause or Mr. Adler terminates his employment without Good Reason prior to May 16, 2007.
Adler Employment Agreement:
     In the event Mr. Adler terminates his employment with the Company for Good Reason or the Company terminates Mr. Adler's employment with the Company without Cause, Mr. Adler is entitled to receive his base salary through the longer of (1) the completion of the term of the Adler Employment Agreement and (2) twelve months.
     Mr. Adler will be restricted from competing with the Company or soliciting/hiring Company employees during the twenty-four month period following the termination of his employment with the Company.
     : Mr. Adler was granted 84,832 restricted stock units (the "First RSU Award") and 53,020 restricted stock units (the "Second RSU Award," and together, the "Awards") pursuant to the Expedia, Inc. 2005 Stock and Annual Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). Material vesting terms are as follows:
Adler RSU Agreement
 
     On October 25, 2006, Burke F. Norton was appointed Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of the Company. The Company entered into a three year employment agreement (the "Norton Employment Agreement") and two Restricted Stock Unit Agreements (the "Norton RSU Agreements") with Mr. Norton. A summary of key terms of the Norton Employment Agreement and the Norton RSU Agreements follows:
     : Mr. Norton will receive an annual base salary of $375,000 and will be eligible to receive a discretionary annual bonus. He will also receive a signing bonus of $250,000, which is subject to forfeiture if the Company terminates Mr. Norton's employment for Cause or Mr. Norton terminates his employment without Good Reason prior to October 25, 2007.
Norton Employment Agreement
     In the event Mr. Norton terminates his employment with the Company for Good Reason or the Company terminates Mr. Norton's employment without Cause, Mr. Norton is entitled to receive his base salary through the longer of (1) the completion of the term of the Norton Employment Agreement and (2) twelve months.
     Mr. Norton will be restricted from competing with the Company or soliciting/hiring Company employees during the twenty-four month period following the termination of his employment with the Company.
     : Mr. Norton was granted 62,235 restricted stock units ("Tranche Vesting RSUs") and 31,117 restricted stock units ("Cliff Vesting RSUs," and together, the "Awards") pursuant to the Plan. Material vesting terms are as follows:
Norton RSU Agreements
     Unless otherwise specified, capitalized terms used above without definition have the meanings set forth in the applicable agreement.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: October 31, 2006


