FILE:EXPE/EXPE-8K-20061109162742.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02.    Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On November 9, 2006, Expedia, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Expedia"), issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2006. The full text of this press release, appearing in Exhibit 99.1 hereto, is incorporated herein by reference.
     Expedia makes reference to non-GAAP financial information in the press release. Information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures is contained in the attached press release.
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)    Exhibits
99.1    Press release of Expedia, Inc., dated November 9, 2006.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
     99.1     Press release of Expedia, Inc., dated November 9, 2006.

 
Exhibit 99.1
BELLEVUE, Wash.November 9, 2006Expedia, Inc. (NASDAQ: EXPE) today announced financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2006.
"Much progress has been made, though it's been ever slow to come through in the performance of our largest point of sale, Expedia.com," said Barry Diller, Expedia, Inc.'s Chairman and Senior Executive. "But behind the sceneswhere it all happens (or doesn't)there is growing confidence that our investments and operational improvements are sound, and will begin to show returns in the new year."
"We made positive strides this quarter in stabilizing the company's operating profitability as we continued to lay groundwork in the technology, supply partnerships and traveler features that we believe will result in sustained transaction and bookings growth over the longer-term," said Dara Khosrowshahi, Expedia, Inc.'s CEO and President. "Our new loyalty program rewarding Expedia.com customers with TankYou points is just the latest ground-breaking innovation for our travelers as we look to re-ignite top line growth going into the new year. In the meantime, we are encouraged by rock-solid execution at hotels.com, our international points of sale, TripAdvisor and Expedia Corporate Travel."
Financial Summary & Operating Metrics (figures in $MM's, except per share amounts)
* "Operating income before amortization," "Adjusted net income" and "Adjusted EPS" are non-GAAP measures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Please see "Definitions of Non-GAAP Measures" and "Tabular Reconciliations for Non-GAAP Measures" for an explanation of non-GAAP measures used throughout this release. Please also see "Basis of Presentation" below for additional information on financial results presented throughout this release.
 
Discussion of Results
Gross bookings increased 8% for third quarter 2006 compared with third quarter 2005. Domestic gross bookings increased 2% and international gross bookings increased 29%, or 23% excluding the impact of foreign exchange rates.
Gross Bookings & Revenue
Revenue increased 5% for the third quarter, primarily driven by increased worldwide merchant hotel revenue, partially offset by a decline in our domestic air revenue. Domestic revenue decreased 3% and international revenue increased 30%, or 19% excluding the impact of foreign exchange rates.
Worldwide merchant hotel revenue increased 14% for the third quarter. The growth was primarily driven by a 9% increase in room nights stayed, including rooms delivered as a component of vacation packages, as well as by a 5% increase in revenue per room night. Revenue per room night increased due to a 7% increase in worldwide average daily rates, partially offset by a decrease in hotel raw margin (defined as hotel net revenue as a percentage of hotel gross revenue), as hotel room suppliers have taken advantage of higher occupancies and the efficacy of their own online distribution to negotiate more favorable terms.
Worldwide air revenues decreased 23% for the third quarter due to a 17% decrease in revenue per air ticket and a 6% decrease in air tickets sold. The decrease in revenue per air ticket reflects reduced economics stemming from recently negotiated global distribution systems ("GDS") and airline agreements as well as continued reductions in agency compensation by domestic carriers. The decline in air tickets sold reflects continued challenges in obtaining air inventory in light of record industry load factors and the reduction in relative capacity of carriers participating in our worldwide marketplace. Excluding merchant air, worldwide air tickets sold would have decreased 1%. Lower availability of merchant air inventory also impacted our packages revenue, which was down 2% compared with the prior year period.
Revenue as a percentage of gross bookings ("revenue margin") was 14.41% for the third quarter, down 44 basis points compared with third quarter 2005. Domestic revenue margin was down 70 basis points to 14.03%, while international revenue margin grew 19 basis points to 15.40%. Excluding the impact of foreign exchange, international revenue margin would have decreased 40 basis points. The third quarter decline in worldwide revenue margin was primarily due to the decline in domestic air revenue per ticket, coupled with an increase in average worldwide airfares of 11%, as our remuneration generally does not vary with the price of the ticket. Worldwide merchant hotel raw margins decreased compared with third quarter 2005, but the increased mix of merchant hotel revenue offset the impact on overall revenue margin.
Gross profit for the third quarter of 2006 was $481 million, up 4% compared to the third quarter of 2005 primarily due to a 5% increase in revenue, partially offset by a 47 basis point decline in gross margin. The gross margin decline was primarily due to higher stock-based compensation expense related to cost of revenue, partially offset by an increased mix of merchant hotel revenue, which has a higher gross margin than our overall business.
Profitability
Operating Income Before Amortization ("OIBA") for the third quarter decreased 2% to $180 million, driven by higher operating expenses, particularly selling and marketing expense, partially offset by higher gross profit excluding stock-based compensation expense. OIBA as a percentage of revenue was down 207 basis points to 29.32%, primarily reflecting higher growth in sales and marketing expense compared to revenue growth during the quarter, partially offset by a higher gross margin excluding stock-based compensation expense. Operating income decreased 40% during the quarter to $89 million, driven by a $47 million non-cash impairment charge of an indefinite life intangible asset related to Hotwire, higher stock-based compensation expense and the same factors which impacted OIBA, partially offset by lower amortization expenses. Stock-based compensation increased due to a $30 million net credit in the prior year expense primarily related to a change in estimated forfeiture assumptions.
Adjusted net income for the third quarter decreased by $10 million compared to the same period in 2005 due to the elimination of interest income from IAC/InterActiveCorp ("IAC"), interest expense related to our senior notes issue and lower OIBA, partially offset by an increase in other interest income. Net income decreased by $23 million compared to the same period in 2005 due to lower operating income, elimination of interest income from IAC and increased interest expense, partially offset by a lower provision for income taxes and a prior year write-off of a long-term investment. Adjusted EPS and diluted EPS were $0.34 and $0.17 for the third quarter. These measures decreased 3% and 26%
 
respectively due to the same factors impacting adjusted net income and net income, partially offset by lower share counts due to our share repurchases during the year.
Cash Flows & Working Capital
For the nine months ended September 30, 2006, net cash provided by operating activities was $747 million and free cash flow was $679 million. Both measures include $376 million from net changes in operating assets and liabilities, primarily driven by our merchant hotel business. Free cash flow for the nine months ended September 30, 2006 decreased $224 million from the prior year period due to a decrease in net changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily related to the timing of merchant hotel payment processing in the prior-year period, increased cash taxes, lower OIBA and increased capital expenditures. "Free cash flow" is a non-GAAP measure as defined by the SEC.
Highlights
 
 
 
 
Income Statement Notes
Gross Bookings / Revenue
Cost of Revenue
Operating Expenses (non-GAAP)
(stock-based compensation expense has been excluded from all calculations and discussions below; see note (1) to the Consolidated Statements of Income for stock-based compensation by line item)
 
Stock-Based Compensation Expense
Other, Net
Income Taxes
 
Foreign Exchange, Acquisitions (some numbers may not add due to rounding)
Balance Sheet Notes
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash
 
Accounts Receivable
Prepaid Merchant Bookings, Prepaid Expenses and Other Current Assets
Long-Term Investments and Other Assets
Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net
Deferred Merchant Bookings and Accounts Payable, Merchant
 
Borrowings
Other Current Liabilities
Derivative Liabilities
Other Long-Term Liabilities
Minority Interest
 
Purchase Obligations
Common Stock
Class B Common Stock
Warrants
Stock-Based Awards
 
Basic, Fully Diluted and Adjusted Diluted Shares
 
Notes & Definitions:
 Total retail value of transactions booked for both agency and merchant transactions, recorded at the time of booking. Bookings include the total price due for travel by travelers, including taxes, fees and other charges, and are generally not reduced for cancellations and refunds.
Gross Bookings
 Quantity of purchases reported as booked, net of cancellations. Packages purchased using our packages wizard, which by definition include a merchant hotel, are recorded as a single transaction.
Number of Transactions
 Worldwide merchant hotel nights, net of cancellations. With the exception of Hotwire, which records room nights upon booking, nights are reported as stayed. This metric includes nights stayed on both a package and stand-alone basis.
Merchant Hotel Room Nights
 
Definitions of Non-GAAP Measures
Expedia, Inc. reports Operating Income Before Amortization, Adjusted Net Income, Adjusted EPS, Free Cash Flow and non-GAAP operating expense (non-GAAP selling and marketing, non-GAAP general and administrative and non-GAAP technology and content), all of which are supplemental measures to GAAP and are defined by the SEC as non-GAAP financial measures. These measures are among the primary metrics by which management evaluates the performance of the business, on which internal budgets are based and by which management is compensated. Management believes that investors should have access to the same set of tools that management uses to analyze our results. These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for or superior to GAAP. We endeavor to compensate for the limitation of the non-GAAP measures presented by also providing comparable GAAP measures, GAAP financial statements and descriptions of the reconciling items and adjustments, to derive the non-GAAP measures.
is defined as operating income plus: (1) amortization of non-cash distribution and marketing expense, (2) stock-based compensation expense, (3) amortization of intangible assets and goodwill and intangible asset impairment, if applicable and (4) certain one-time items, if applicable. OIBA represents the combined operating results of Expedia, Inc.'s businesses, taking into account depreciation, which we believe is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the effects of other non-cash expenses that may not be indicative of our core business operations. Management believes this measure is useful to investors because it corresponds more closely to the cash operating income generated from our core operations by excluding significant non-cash operating expenses, it aids in forecasting and analyzing future operating income as stock-based compensation, amortization of intangibles, assuming no subsequent acquisitions, and non-cash distribution and marketing expenses are likely to decline going forward and because it provides greater insight into management decision making at Expedia, Inc. as OIBA is our primary internal metric for evaluating the performance of our businesses. OIBA has certain limitations in that it does not take into account the impact of certain expenses to Expedia, Inc.'s statements of income, including stock-based compensation, non-cash payments to partners, acquisition-related accounting and certain one-time items, if applicable. Due to the high variability and difficulty in predicting certain items that affect net income, such as tax rates, stock price and interest rates, Expedia, Inc. is unable to provide a reconciliation to net income on a forward-looking basis without unreasonable efforts.
Operating Income Before Amortization ("OIBA")
generally captures all items on the statements of income that have been, or ultimately will be, settled in cash and is defined as net income available to stockholders plus net of tax (1) amortization of non-cash distribution and marketing expense, (2) stock-based compensation expense, (3) amortization of intangible assets and goodwill or intangible impairment, if applicable, (4) one-time items, (5) minority interest, (6) mark to market gains and losses on derivative liabilities and (7) discontinued operations. We believe Adjusted Net Income is useful to investors because it represents Expedia, Inc.'s combined results, taking into account depreciation, which management believes is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the impact of other non-cash expenses and items not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses.
Adjusted Net Income
is defined as Adjusted Net Income divided by weighted fully diluted shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS purposes. We include dilution from options and warrants per the treasury stock method and include all shares relating to RSUs in shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS. This differs from the GAAP method for including RSUs, which treats them on a treasury method basis. Shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS purposes are therefore higher than shares outstanding for GAAP EPS purposes. We believe Adjusted EPS is useful to investors because it represents, on a per share basis, Expedia's consolidated results, taking into account depreciation, which we believe is an ongoing cost of doing business, as well as other charges which are not allocated to the operating businesses such as interest expense, taxes and minority interest, but excluding the effects of other non-cash expenses not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses. Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted EPS have the same limitations as OIBA. In addition, Adjusted Net Income does not include all items that affect our net income and net income per share for the period. Therefore, we think it is important to evaluate these measures along with our consolidated statements of income.
Adjusted EPS
is defined as net cash flow provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. Management believes Free Cash Flow is useful to investors because it represents the operating cash flow that our operating businesses generate, less capital expenditures but before taking into account other cash movements that are not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses, such as financing activities or certain investing activities. Free Cash Flow has certain
Free Cash Flow
 
limitations in that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period, nor does it represent the residual cash flow for discretionary expenditures. Therefore, it is important to evaluate Free Cash Flow along with the consolidated statements of cash flows.
exclude stock-based compensation related to expenses for stock options, restricted stock units and other equity compensation under FAS 123(R). Expedia, Inc. excludes stock-based compensation expenses from these measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses that we do not believe are necessarily reflective of our ongoing cash operating expenses and cash operating income. These expenses are also likely to decline in the near future as we no longer award options as our primary form of equity compensation. In addition, due to historical accounting charges and credits related to our spin-off, changes in forfeiture estimate and other events, stock-based compensation has been highly variable in some historical quarters, impairing year-on-year and quarter-to-quarter comparability. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types that companies can use when adopting FAS 123(R), management believes that providing non-GAAP financial measures that exclude stock-based compensation allows investors to make meaningful comparisons between our recurring core business operating results and those of other companies, as well as providing management with an important tool for financial operational decision making and for evaluating our own recurring core business operating results over different periods of time. There are certain limitations in using financial measures that do not take into account stock-based compensation, including the fact that stock-based compensation is a recurring expense and a valued part of employees' compensation. Therefore it is important to evaluate both our GAAP and non-GAAP measures. See the Note to the Consolidated Statements of Income for stock-based compensation by line item.
Non-GAAP selling and marketing, general administrative and technology and content excluding stock-based compensation
Tabular Reconciliations for Non-GAAP Measures
Operating Income Before Amortization
 
Adjusted Net Income & Adjusted EPS
Free Cash Flow
Conference Call
Expedia, Inc. will audiocast its conference call with investors and analysts discussing its third quarter financial results and certain forward-looking information on Thursday, November 9, 2006 at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time (PT). The audiocast will be open to the public and available via http://www.expediainc.com/ir. Expedia, Inc. expects to maintain access to the audiocast on the IR website for approximately three months subsequent to the initial broadcast.
Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. These forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations as of November 9, 2006 and assumptions which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. The use of words such as "anticipates," "estimates," "expects," "intends," "plans" and "believes," among others, generally identify forward-looking statements. However, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements and may include statements relating to future revenues, expenses, margins, profitability, net income, earnings per share and other measures of results of operation and the prospects for future growth of Expedia, Inc.'s business.
Actual results and the timing and outcome of events may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, among others: Expedia, Inc.'s ability to effectively update, automate and integrate disparate financial and accounting systems and approaches among its brands and businesses; the accuracy, integrity, security and redundancy of systems, including financial and accounting systems, and networks of Expedia, Inc.; reliance on newly implemented systems supporting our financial planning and projections; adverse changes in our relationships with travel suppliers or GDS partners; adverse changes in senior management; the rate of growth of
 
the internet and online travel; changes in the competitive environment, the e-commerce industry and broadband access; declines or disruptions in the travel industry (including those caused by decreased consumer and business spending, adverse weather, bankruptcies, health risks, war, terrorism and/or general economic downturns); the rate of online migration in the various geographies and markets in which Expedia, Inc. operates, including Asia; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; changing laws, rules and regulations and legal uncertainties relating to our business; Expedia, Inc.'s ability to expand successfully in international markets; possible charges resulting from, among other events, integration and process review activities, platform migration and shared services efforts; failure to realize cost efficiencies; the successful completion of any pending corporate transactions and the integration of current and acquired businesses; and other risks detailed in Expedia, Inc.'s public filings with the SEC, including Expedia, Inc.'s most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q and its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005.
Except as required by law, Expedia, Inc. undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking or other statements in this press release, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Basis of Presentation
On August 9, 2005, IAC separated into two separate companies. As a result, Expedia, Inc. became a separate public company (the "Spin-Off"). These financial statements present results of operations, financial position and cash flows on a combined basis until the Spin-Off and on a consolidated basis thereafter. The unaudited financial statements relating to periods prior to August 9, 2005 were prepared on a combined basis because there was no direct ownership relationship among any or all of the businesses that comprised Expedia, Inc. upon Spin-Off.
About Expedia, Inc.
Expedia, Inc. is the world's leading online travel company, empowering business and leisure travelers with the tools and information they need to easily research, plan, book and experience travel. Expedia, Inc. also provides wholesale travel to offline retail travel agents. Expedia, Inc.'s portfolio of brands include: Expedia.com, hotels.com, Hotwire, Expedia Corporate Travel, TripAdvisor and Classic Vacations. Expedia, Inc.'s companies also operate internationally with sites in Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Australia and China, through its investment in eLong. For more information, visit http://www.expediainc.com. (NASDAQ: EXPE).
Expedia, Expedia.com, Enjoy Your Trip and the Airplane logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Expedia, Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. Classic Vacations and the Bird of Paradise logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Classic Vacations, LLC in the U.S. and/or other countries. hotels.com, the hotels.com logo and We Know Hotels Inside And Out are either registered trademarks or trademarks in the U.S. and/or other countries of Hotels.com, L.P., a subsidiary of Hotels.com. Hotwire and Hotwire.com are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Hotwire, Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. TripAdvisor, the Owl Logo and Get The Truth. Then Go. are either registered trademarks or trademarks in the U.S. and/or other countries of TripAdvisor LLC. Other logos and product or company names mentioned herein may be the property of their respective owners.
2006 Expedia, Inc. All rights reserved. CST 2029030-40.


