FILE:EXPE/EXPE-8K-20060406190119.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Registrant's telephone number, including area code:     (425) 679-7200
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 1.01.     Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
The information included under Item 5.02 below is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1.02.     Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
The information included under Item 5.02 below is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.02.     Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On April 5, 2006, Mr. Michael Adler, 43, was appointed Chief Financial Officer of Expedia, Inc., effective May 15, 2006. Mr. Adler will join Expedia prior to May 15th as Executive Vice President of Finance, while he transitions into the CFO position. Michael Adler is currently the Senior Vice President, Financial Planning and Analysis for IAC/InterActiveCorp("IAC") Mr. Adler was promoted to this position in April 2005 from Vice President, Financial Analysis and Operational Reporting, a position he held since January 2002. Mr. Adler joined IAC in May 2001 as Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration, for IAC's Information and Services Group. Prior to joining IAC, Mr. Adler held a number of positions, including Chief Financial Officer and General Counsel for SchoolSports, Inc. and Vice President and General Counsel for Cheyenne Software, Inc., both in New York. Prior to that, Adler practiced law with Feldman, Waldman & Kline in San Francisco. In 1985, Mr. Adler received his Bachelor's of Science degree in Economics, magna cum laude, from The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania. Mr. Adler received his Juris Doctor (J.D.) from the University of Pennsylvania Law School, in 1988.
Mr. Adler will be entitled to receive an annual base salary of $375,000, will be eligible to receive annual discretionary bonuses, with a target bonus of 60% of his annual base salary, and will be granted a signing bonus of $250,000. The term of Mr. Adler's Employment Agreement will be three years and include a covenant not to compete for two years after termination of his employment for any reason. Subject to the approval of Expedia's Compensation Committee, Mr. Adler will be granted restricted stock units ("RSUs") representing shares of common stock of Expedia with a grant-date value of $2.6 million pursuant to the Expedia, Inc. 2005 Stock and Annual Incentive Plan, which will vest over five years. Of these, RSUs representing shares with a grant-date value of $800,000 will vest if Mr. Adler is terminated other than for cause, or if he resigns for good reason, as defined in his RSU Agreement. Upon a change of control of Expedia, 100% of Mr. Adler's RSUs will vest immediately.
On April 5, 2006, Mr. Mark S. Gunning notified the Company that he was resigning as Executive Vice President and CFO of Expedia, Inc., effective as of May 15, 2006. Mr. Gunning's Employment Agreement with the Company, dated as of July 14, 2005 will terminate effective May 15, 2006.
 
Item 7.01.     Regulation FD Disclosure.
The press release issued by the Company on April 6 with respect to the items discussed above is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
th
Item 9.01.     Financial Statements and Exhibits.
Exhibit 99.1     Press Release issued by the Company April 6, 2006
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 6, 2006
 
Exhibit 99.1     April 6, 2006 Press Release announcing appointment of new Chief Financial Officer and resignation of current Chief Financial Officer

 
Exhibit 99.1
Bellevue, WA  April 6, 2006  Expedia, Inc. (NASDAQ: EXPE) today announced the appointment of Michael Adler as the company's CFO effective May 15, 2006.
Mark Gunning is resigning his post as CFO of Expedia, Inc., effective on May 15, 2006, to continue his education in a non-travel-related field. "I had a great experience with a great team at Expedia and am committed to working with Mike to ensure a smooth transition," Gunning said. "I am going to complete my masters in theological studies full time, and go on to teach. This is a life passion that I've been pursuing part time and I look forward to the next stage of my life work."
"This past year has represented positive growth and change for Expedia, Inc. and Mark was a key player in this evolution," said Dara Khosrowshahi, CEO of Expedia, Inc. "We thank him for all his contributions to the company and wish him luck with his new career focus. We are excited to have Mike on board and believe he will add immense value in the financial area."
Adler comes to Expedia from IAC/InterActiveCorp where he most recently served as a Senior Vice President of Financial Planning and Analysis; he has served in other financial roles at IAC over the past five years. Previously, Adler was CFO and General Counsel for SchoolSports, Inc. and Vice President and General Counsel for Cheyenne Software. Prior to that, he practiced law with Feldman, Waldman & Kline in San Francisco. Adler received in Bachelor's of Science degree in Economics, magna cum laude, from The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania and his Juris Doctor (J.D.) from the University of Pennsylvania Law School.
Expedia, Inc. is the world's leading online travel company, empowering business and leisure travelers with the tools and information they need to easily research, plan, book, and experience travel. Expedia, Inc. also provides wholesale travel to offline retail travel agents. Expedia, Inc.'s portfolio of brands include: Expedia.com, hotels.com, Hotwire, Expedia Corporate Travel, TripAdvisor and Classic Vacations. Expedia, Inc.'s companies also operate internationally with sites in Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Australia, and China, through its investment in eLong. For more information, visit . (NASDAQ: EXPE).
About Expedia, Inc.:
http://www.expediainc.com/
Stu Haas, 425.679.3555 or Wendy Grover, 425.679.7874
For more information, Expedia, Inc.: Investor Relations,
ir@expedia.com
Press,
Expedia, Expedia.com, the airplane logo and Classic Vacations are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Expedia, Inc. in the United States and/or other countries. Hotels.com is a trademark of Hotels.com, L.P. in the United States and other countries. Hotwire is either a registered trademark or trademark of Hotwire, Inc. in the United States and/or other countries. TripAdvisor is a trademark of TripAdvisor, Inc. in the United States and other countries.
Other product and company names mentioned herein may be trademarks of their respective owners.


