FILE:EXPE/EXPE-8K-20070802090026.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
     
Item 2.02.
Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On August 2, 2007, Expedia, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Expedia"), issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2007. The full text of this press release, appearing in Exhibit 99.1 hereto, is incorporated herein by reference.
     Expedia makes reference to non-GAAP financial information in the press release. Information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures is contained in the attached press release.
     
Item 9.01.
Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)     Exhibits
99.1     Press release of Expedia, Inc., dated August 2, 2007.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
99.1      Press release of Expedia, Inc., dated August 2, 2007.

 
Exhibit 99.1
BELLEVUE, Wash.August 2, 2007Expedia, Inc. (NASDAQ: EXPE) today announced financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2007.
"There is no more positive statement we could make about our confidence in Expedia than our current tender offer and outstanding share repurchase authorization," said Barry Diller, Expedia, Inc.'s Chairman and Senior Executive.
"The recent signings of Alaska Airlines, American Airlines, Delta Air Lines, JetBlue Airways, Northwest Airlines and Wyndham Worldwide by our Partner Services Group demonstrate Expedia's ongoing progress in assembling the world's most compelling marketplace of travel products and services," said Dara Khosrowshahi, Expedia Inc.'s CEO and President. "With the combination of our highest revenue growth rate in nearly two years, continued momentum at Expedia.com and strong growth in our advertising and media businesses, we are increasingly confident in our strategy and poised for continued execution in 2007 and beyond."
Financial Summary & Operating Metrics (figures in $MM's, except per share amounts)
*"Operating income before amortization," "Adjusted net income," "Adjusted EPS," and "Free cash flow" are non-GAAP measures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Please see "Definitions of Non-GAAP Measures" and "Tabular Reconciliations for Non-GAAP Measures" on pages 15-18 herein for an explanation of non-GAAP measures used throughout this release.
 
Discussion of Results
Gross bookings increased 14% for the second quarter of 2007 compared with the second quarter of 2006. North America bookings increased 8%, Europe bookings increased 38% (30% excluding the impact of foreign exchange) and Other bookings (including Expedia Corporate Travel and our Asia Pacific operations) increased 27%.
Gross Bookings & Revenue
Revenue increased 15% for the second quarter, primarily driven by increased worldwide merchant hotel revenue and advertising and media revenue, partially offset by a decline in North America air revenue. North America revenue increased 11%, Europe revenue increased 30% (23% excluding the impact of foreign exchange) and Other revenue increased 28%.
Worldwide merchant hotel revenue increased 14% for the second quarter due to a 10% increase in room nights stayed, including rooms delivered as a component of vacation packages, and a 4% increase in revenue per room night. Revenue per room night increased due to a 5% increase in worldwide average daily rates ("ADRs"), partially offset by a modest decrease in hotel raw margin compared to second quarter 2006.
Worldwide air revenue decreased 7% for the second quarter due to a 19% decrease in revenue per air ticket, partially offset by a 14% increase in air tickets sold. The decrease in revenue per air ticket primarily reflects decreased compensation from air carriers and global distribution system ("GDS") providers. Packages revenue increased 1% compared with the prior year period primarily due to higher package volumes in Europe.
Worldwide revenue from products and services other than merchant hotel and air (including advertising and media, car rentals, destination services and cruises), increased 40% for the second quarter due primarily to increases in advertising and media and car rental revenues.
Revenue as a percentage of gross bookings ("revenue margin") was 13.21% for the second quarter, an increase of 10 basis points. North America revenue margin increased 34 basis points to 13.58%, Europe revenue margin decreased 85 basis points to 14.05%, and Other revenue margin increased 10 basis points to 8.39%. The second quarter increase in worldwide and North America revenue margin was primarily due to an increased mix of advertising and media and car rental revenues as compared to second quarter 2006, partially offset by the decline in revenue per air ticket and lower merchant hotel raw margin. Europe revenue margin decreased in part due to decreased revenue from air booking fees and more competitive hotel pricing.
Gross profit for the second quarter of 2007 was $546 million, an increase of 16% compared with the second quarter of 2006 primarily due to increased revenue and a 64 basis point improvement in gross margin to 79.18%. The gross margin increase was due to cost savings from our Apollo and other cost cutting initiatives and an increased mix of advertising and media revenue, partially offset by a lower gross margin on our agency air product.
Profitability
OIBA for the second quarter increased 2% to $187 million, driven primarily by higher revenue. OIBA as a percentage of revenue decreased 366 basis points to 27.12%, primarily reflecting a higher growth in sales and marketing expenses excluding stock-based compensation as a percentage of revenue, partially offset by higher gross margin. Operating income increased 13% to $154 million due to the same factors impacting OIBA, as well as lower intangible amortization and stock-based compensation expenses.
Adjusted net income for the second quarter decreased $4 million due to lower net interest income and net losses from our equity investments and foreign currency transactions, partially offset by increased OIBA. Net income increased less than $1 million reflecting higher operating income and a federal excise tax refund, partially offset by a higher tax provision, lower net interest income and net losses related to our AskJeeves, Inc. ("Ask") derivative liability. Second quarter adjusted EPS and diluted EPS were $0.35 and $0.30, respectively. These measures increased 9% and 11% due to the same factors impacting adjusted net income and net income, as well as lower net share counts from our share repurchase activity since June 30, 2006.
 
For the six months ended June 30, 2007, net cash provided by operating activities was $923 million and free cash flow was $884 million. Both measures include $687 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities, primarily driven by seasonal receipt of cash related to our merchant hotel business. Free cash flow for the second quarter increased $128 million primarily due to an increase in changes in operating assets and liabilities.
Cash Flows & Working Capital
Recent Highlights
 
 
 
 
Income Statement Notes
Gross Bookings / Revenue
Cost of Revenue
Operating Expenses (non-GAAP)
(Stock-based compensation expense has been excluded from all calculations and discussions below)
Selling and Marketing (non-GAAP)
 
General and Administrative (non-GAAP)
Technology and Content (non-GAAP)
Stock-Based Compensation Expense
Other, Net
Income Taxes
 
Foreign Exchange
Acquisitions
Balance Sheet Notes
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash
 
Accounts and Notes Receivable
Prepaid Merchant Booking, Prepaid Expenses and Other Current Assets
Long-Term Investments and Other Assets
Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net
Accounts Payable, Other
Deferred Merchant Bookings and Accounts Payable, Merchant
 
Other Current Liabilities
Ask Derivative Liability
Borrowings
 
Other Long-Term Liabilities
Minority Interest
Purchase Obligations and Contractual Commitments
Common Stock
Class B Common Stock
Warrants
 
Stock-Based Awards
Basic, Fully Diluted and Adjusted Diluted Shares
 
 
 
Notes & Definitions:
 Quantity of purchases reported as booked, net of cancellations. Packages purchased using our packages wizard, which by definition include a merchant hotel, are recorded as a single transaction.
Number of Transactions
 Total retail value of transactions booked for both agency and merchant transactions, recorded at the time of booking. Bookings include the total price due for travel, including taxes, fees and other charges, and are generally reduced for cancellations and refunds.
Gross Bookings
 Reflects results for travel products and services provided to customers in the United States, Canada, Mexico and Latin America. Includes 100% of TripAdvisor as it is managed in North America.
North America
 Reflects results for travel products and services provided through localized Expedia websites in Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom and localized versions of Hotels.com in various European countries.
Europe
 Includes Expedia Corporate Travel, Asia Pacific and unallocated corporate functions and expenses.
Other
 Worldwide merchant hotel nights, net of cancellations. With the exception of Hotwire, which records room nights upon booking, nights are reported as stayed. This metric includes nights stayed on both a package and stand-alone basis.
Merchant Hotel Room Nights
Expedia, Inc. reports Operating Income Before Amortization, Adjusted Net Income, Adjusted EPS, Free Cash Flow and non-GAAP operating expense (non-GAAP selling and marketing, non-GAAP general and administrative and non-GAAP technology and content), all of which are supplemental measures to GAAP and are defined by the SEC as non-GAAP financial measures. These measures are among the primary metrics by which management evaluates the performance of the business, on which internal budgets are based and by which management is compensated. Management believes that investors should have access to the same set of tools that management uses to analyze our results. These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for or superior to GAAP. We endeavor to compensate for the limitation of the non-GAAP measures presented by also providing the most directly comparable GAAP measures and descriptions of the reconciling items and adjustments to derive the non-GAAP measures.
Definitions of Non-GAAP Measures
is defined as operating income plus: (1) amortization of non-cash distribution and marketing expense, (2) stock-based compensation expense, (3) amortization of intangible assets and goodwill and/or intangible asset impairment, if applicable and (4) certain one-time items, if applicable. OIBA represents the combined operating results of Expedia, Inc.'s businesses, taking into account depreciation, which we believe is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the effects of other non-cash expenses that may not be indicative of our core business operations. Management believes this measure is useful to investors because it corresponds more closely to the cash operating income generated from our core operations by excluding significant non-cash operating expenses, it aids in forecasting and analyzing future operating income as stock-based compensation, amortization of intangibles (assuming no subsequent acquisitions), and non-cash distribution and marketing expenses have declined and are likely to decline going forward and because it provides greater insight into management decision making at Expedia, Inc. as OIBA is our primary internal metric for evaluating the performance of our businesses. OIBA has certain limitations in that it does not take into account the impact of certain expenses to Expedia, Inc.'s statements of income, including stock-based compensation, non-cash payments to partners, acquisition-related accounting and certain one-time items, if applicable. Due to the high variability and difficulty in predicting certain items that affect net income, such as tax rates, stock price and interest rates, Expedia, Inc. is unable to provide a reconciliation to net income on a forward-looking basis without unreasonable efforts.
Operating Income Before Amortization ("OIBA")
generally captures all items on the statements of income that have been, or ultimately will be, settled in cash and is defined as net income available to stockholders plus net of tax (1) amortization of non-cash distribution and marketing expense, (2) stock-based compensation expense, (3) amortization of intangible assets, including as part of equity-method investments, and goodwill and/or intangible impairment, if applicable, (4) one-time items, (5) mark to market gains and losses on derivative liabilities, (6) discontinued operations and (7) the minority interest impact of the aforementioned adjustment items. We believe Adjusted Net Income is useful to investors because it represents Expedia, Inc.'s combined results, taking into account depreciation, which management believes is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the impact of other non-cash expenses and items not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses.
Adjusted Net Income
 
is defined as Adjusted Net Income divided by weighted fully diluted shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS purposes. We include dilution from options and warrants per the treasury stock method and include all shares relating to RSUs in shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS. This differs from the GAAP method for including RSUs, which treats them on a treasury method basis. Shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS purposes are therefore higher than shares outstanding for GAAP EPS purposes. We believe Adjusted EPS is useful to investors because it represents, on a per share basis, Expedia's consolidated results, taking into account depreciation, which we believe is an ongoing cost of doing business, as well as other charges which are not allocated to the operating businesses such as interest expense, taxes and minority interest, but excluding the effects of non-cash expenses not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses. Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted EPS have similar limitations as OIBA. In addition, Adjusted Net Income does not include all items that affect our net income and net income per share for the period. Therefore, we think it is important to evaluate these measures along with our consolidated statements of income.
Adjusted EPS
is defined as net cash flow provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. Management believes Free Cash Flow is useful to investors because it represents the operating cash flow that our operating businesses generate, less capital expenditures but before taking into account other cash movements that are not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses, such as financing activities, foreign exchange or certain investing activities. Free Cash Flow has certain limitations in that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period, nor does it represent the residual cash flow for discretionary expenditures. Therefore, it is important to evaluate Free Cash Flow along with the consolidated statements of cash flows.
Free Cash Flow
exclude stock-based compensation related to expenses for stock options, restricted stock units and other equity compensation under FAS 123(R). Expedia, Inc. excludes stock-based compensation expenses from these measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses that we do not believe are necessarily reflective of our ongoing cash operating expenses and cash operating income. These expenses are also likely to decline in the near future as we no longer award options as our primary form of equity compensation. In addition, due to historical accounting charges and credits related to our spin-off from IAC, changes in forfeiture estimates and other events, stock-based compensation has been highly variable in some historical quarters, impairing year-on-year and quarter-to-quarter comparability. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types that companies can use when adopting FAS 123(R), management believes that providing non-GAAP financial measures that exclude stock-based compensation allows investors to make meaningful comparisons between our recurring core business operating results and those of other companies, as well as providing management with an important tool for financial operational decision making and for evaluating our own recurring core business operating results over different periods of time. There are certain limitations in using financial measures that do not take into account stock-based compensation, including the fact that stock-based compensation is a recurring expense and a valued part of employees' compensation. Therefore it is important to evaluate both our GAAP and non-GAAP measures. See the Note to the Consolidated Statements of Income for stock-based compensation by line item.
Non-GAAP cost of revenue, selling and marketing, general and administrative and technology and content expenses excluding stock-based compensation
 
Tabular Reconciliations for Non-GAAP Measures
Operating Income Before Amortization
Adjusted Net Income & Adjusted EPS
Free Cash Flow
 
Non-GAAP cost of revenue, selling and marketing, general and administrative and technology and content expenses excluding stock-based compensation
Conference Call
Expedia, Inc. will audiocast a conference call to discuss second quarter 2007 financial results and certain forward-looking information on Thursday, August 2, 2007 at 8:00 a.m. Pacific Time (PT). The audiocast will be open to the public and available via http://www.expediainc.com/ir. Expedia, Inc. expects to maintain access to the audiocast on the IR website for approximately three months subsequent to the initial broadcast.
Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. These forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations as of August 2, 2007 and assumptions which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. The use of words such as "intends" and "expects" among others, generally identify forward-looking statements. However, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements and may include statements relating to future revenues, expenses, margins, profitability, net income, earnings per share and other measures of results of operation and the prospects for future growth of Expedia, Inc.'s business.
Actual results and the timing and outcome of events may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, among others: Expedia's ability to consummate the ongoing tender offer, changes in Expedia, Inc.'s relationships and contractual agreements with travel suppliers or GDS partners, our ability to effectively update, automate and integrate disparate financial and accounting systems and approaches among our brands and businesses; adverse changes in senior management; the rate of growth of the internet and online travel; our inability to recognize the benefits of our investment in technologies; changes in the competitive environment, the e-commerce industry and broadband access; declines or disruptions in the travel industry (including those caused by decreased consumer and business spending, adverse weather, bankruptcies, health risks, war, terrorism and/or general economic downturns); the rate of online migration in the various geographies and markets in which Expedia, Inc. operates, including Asia; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; changing laws, rules and regulations and legal uncertainties relating to our business; Expedia, Inc.'s ability to expand successfully in international markets; possible charges resulting from, among other events, platform migration; failure to realize cost efficiencies; the successful completion of any future corporate transactions or acquisitions; and the integration of current and acquired businesses;
 
and other risks detailed in Expedia, Inc.'s public filings with the SEC, including Expedia, Inc.'s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006.
Except as required by law, Expedia, Inc. undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking or other statements in this press release, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
About Expedia, Inc.
Expedia, Inc. is the world's leading online travel company, empowering business and leisure travelers with the tools and information they need to easily research, plan, book and experience travel. Expedia, Inc. also provides wholesale travel to offline retail travel agents. Expedia, Inc.'s portfolio of brands include: Expedia.com, hotels.com, Hotwire, Expedia Corporate Travel, TripAdvisor and Classic Vacations. Expedia, Inc.'s companies also operate internationally with sites in Australia, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom and China, through its investment in eLong. For more information, visit http://www.expediainc.com (NASDAQ: EXPE).
Expedia, Expedia.com and the Airplane logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Expedia, Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. Classic Vacations and the Bird of Paradise logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Classic Vacations, LLC in the U.S. and/or other countries. hotels.com, the hotels.com logo and We Know Hotels Inside And Out are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Hotels.com, L.P., a subsidiary of Hotels.com in the U.S. and/or other countries. Hotwire, Hotwire.com and Travel Ticker are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Hotwire, Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. eLong and the eLong logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of eLong, Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. TripAdvisor, the Owl Logo and Get The Truth. Then Go. are either registered trademarks or trademarks of TripAdvisor LLC in the U.S. and/or other countries. Other logos and product or company names mentioned herein may be the property of their respective owners.
2007 Expedia, Inc. All rights reserved. CST 2029030-40.


