FILE:EXPE/EXPE-8K-20070806160519.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Notice of Delisting or Failure to Satisfy a Continued Listing Rule or Standard; Transfer of Listing
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
     On July 30, 2007, David Goldhill resigned as a member of the audit committee of Expedia, Inc. (the "Company"). The resignation is due to Mr. Goldhill ceasing to be independent in accordance with the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules, and is not the result of any disagreement with the Company on any matter relating to the Company's operations, policies or practices.
     Due to Mr. Goldhill's resignation, the Company is no longer compliant with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(d)(2)(A) which requires that every Nasdaq-listed company have an audit committee comprised of at least three members. The Company notified the Nasdaq Stock Market of these facts on July 31, 2007. On August 2, 2007, the Company received a letter from Nasdaq confirming that the Company was not in compliance with the Nasdaq audit committee requirements. The notification confirmed that, consistent with Marketplace Rule 4350(d)(4), the Company will be provided a cure period until the earlier of the Company's next annual stockholders' meeting or July 30, 2008. The Company expects to cure this deficiency within such time.
     As required by Marketplace Rule 4803(a), the Company issued a press release regarding this issue.
     (d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
PRESS RELEASE
BELLEVUE, WA  Aug. 6, 2007  Expedia, Inc. today announced the resignation of David Goldhill as a member of the company's audit committee, effective July 30, 2007. The resignation is due to Mr. Goldhill ceasing to be independent in accordance with the Nasdaq Marketplace Rules, and is not the result of any disagreement with Expedia on any matter relating to the company's operations, policies or practices.
Due to Goldhill's resignation, the company is no longer compliant with Nasdaq Marketplace Rule 4350(d)(2)(A), which requires that every Nasdaq-listed company have an audit committee comprised of at least three members. Expedia notified the Nasdaq Stock Market of Goldhill's resignation on July 31, 2007. On August 2, 2007, the Company received a letter from Nasdaq confirming that the Company was not in compliance with the Nasdaq audit committee requirements. Consistent with Marketplace Rule 4350(d)(4), Expedia will be provided a cure period until the earlier of the company's next annual stockholders' meeting or July 30, 2008, in which time the company expects to fill the vacancy resulting from Goldhill's resignation.
About Expedia, Inc.
Expedia, Inc. is the world's leading online travel company, empowering business and leisure travelers with the tools and information they need to easily research, plan, book, and experience travel. Expedia, Inc. also provides wholesale travel to offline retail travel agents. Expedia, Inc.'s portfolio of brands includes: Expedia.com, hotels.com, Hotwire, Expedia Corporate Travel, TripAdvisor and Classic Vacations. Expedia, Inc.'s companies also operate internationally with sites in Australia, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom, and China, through its investment in eLong. For more information, visit (NASDAQ: EXPE).
http://www.expediainc.com/
Expedia, Expedia.com are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Expedia, Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. Classic Vacations is either a trademark or registered trademark of Classic Vacations, LLC in the U.S. and/or other countries. hotels.com is either a trademark or registered trademark of hotels.com, L.P., a subsidiary of hotels.com in the U.S. and/or other countries. Hotwire is either a trademark or registered trademark of Hotwire, Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. TripAdvisor is either a trademark or registered trademark of TripAdvisor, LLC in the U.S. and/or other countries. Other logos or product and company names mentioned herein may be the property of their respective owners.
2007 Expedia, Inc. All rights reserved. CST: 2029030-40


