FILE:EXPE/EXPE-8K-20070215092849.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On February 15, 2007, Expedia, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Expedia"), issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2006. The full text of this press release, appearing in Exhibit 99.1 hereto, is incorporated herein by reference.
     Expedia makes reference to non-GAAP financial information in the press release. Information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures is contained in the attached press release.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
99.1 Press release of Expedia, Inc., dated February 15, 2007.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
BELLEVUE, Wash.February 15, 2007Expedia, Inc. (NASDAQ: EXPE) today announced financial results for its fourth quarter and full-year ended December 31, 2006.
"Begun with adversity, 2006 was a year of change, challenge and investment that ended positively for Expedia," said Barry Diller, Expedia, Inc.'s Chairman and Senior Executive. "We believed our results would improve, and they did in the form of 10% OIBA growth for the fourth quarter, with robust international growth, a stabilized revenue margin and efficient expense control. At the same time, we continued to make longer term strides for shareholdersfortifying our brand portfolio, expanding and stabilizing supplier relations, extending our geographic reach in Europe and Asia-Pacific and continuing our commitment to capital efficiency by issuing debt and taking steps to reduce our share base nearly 15%, with an incremental authorization for 20 million shares still outstanding. The result is an Expedia better positioned for sustained growth and value creation in 2007 and beyond."
"We continued our progress this quarter in stabilizing the Company's operating profitability, resulting in OIBA at the high end of our expectations range for the year," said Dara Khosrowshahi, Expedia, Inc.'s CEO and President. "We enter 2007 with online travel's vanguard brands, more than 50 unique points of sale across the globe and an intense commitment to innovation, but above all with a firm eye toward re-accelerating growth at our flagship point of sale, Expedia.com."
Financial Summary & Operating Metrics (figures in $MM's, except per share amounts)
* "Operating income before amortization," "Adjusted net income," "Adjusted EPS," and "Free cash flow" are non-GAAP measures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Please see "Definitions of Non-GAAP Measures" and "Tabular Reconciliations for Non-GAAP Measures" on pages 16-18 herein for an explanation of non-GAAP measures used throughout this release. Please also see "Basis of Presentation" on page 19 for additional information on financial results for full-year 2005 results presented throughout this release.
 
Discussion of Results  Fourth Quarter 2006
Gross bookings increased 9% for the fourth quarter 2006 compared with fourth quarter 2005. Domestic gross bookings increased 1% and international gross bookings increased 34%, or 27% excluding the impact of foreign exchange rates.
Gross Bookings & Revenue
Revenue increased 7% for the fourth quarter, primarily driven by increased worldwide merchant hotel revenue, partially offset by a decline in our domestic air revenue. Domestic revenue growth was 1%, and international revenue increased 25%.
Worldwide merchant hotel revenue increased 15% for the fourth quarter. The growth was primarily driven by a 9% increase in revenue per room night, as well as by a 6% increase in room nights stayed, including rooms delivered as a component of vacation packages. Revenue per room night increased due to a 9% increase in worldwide average daily rates ("ADRs"), partially offset by a small decline in hotel raw margin.
Worldwide air revenues decreased 14% for the fourth quarter due to a 15% decrease in revenue per air ticket, partially offset by a 1% increase in air tickets sold. The decrease in revenue per air ticket reflects decreased compensation from air carriers and global distribution system ("GDS") providers. Excluding merchant air tickets, worldwide air tickets sold would have increased 5%. Lower availability of merchant air inventory also impacted our packages revenue, which increased 1% compared with the prior year period.
Revenue as a percentage of gross bookings ("revenue margin") was 14.4% for the fourth quarter, a decrease of 16 basis points. Domestic revenue margin was flat at 14.0%, while international revenue margin decreased 102 basis points to 15.5%. The fourth quarter decline in worldwide revenue margin was primarily due to the decline in air revenue per ticket, coupled with an increase in average worldwide airfares of 4%, as our remuneration generally does not vary with the price of the ticket. This impact was nearly offset by an increased mix of merchant hotel and advertising revenue, which have higher margins compared with our other product groups and services.
Gross profit for the fourth quarter of 2006 was $410 million, an increase of 7% compared with the fourth quarter of 2005 primarily due to increased revenue, partially offset by a 16 basis point decline in gross margin to 77.1%. The gross margin decline was due in part to costs associated with our GDS diversification, partially offset by an increased mix of merchant hotel revenue, which has a higher gross margin than our overall business.
Profitability
Operating Income Before Amortization ("OIBA") for the fourth quarter increased 10% to $146 million, primarily driven by higher revenue. OIBA as a percentage of revenue increased 66 basis points to 27.5%, primarily reflecting lower growth in general and administrative and technology and content expenses excluding stock-based compensation compared to revenue growth during the quarter, partially offset by a lower gross margin. Operating income increased 16% during the quarter to $100 million due to the same factors impacting OIBA, as well as lower amortization expense related to intangibles, partially offset by higher stock-based compensation expense.
Adjusted net income for the fourth quarter increased $25 million due to an increase in OIBA, higher interest income on increased cash balances and a lower effective tax rate, partially offset by an increase in interest expense related to our Senior Notes. Net income increased $42 million due to a lower effective tax rate, an increase in operating income, a net increase in income related to derivative liabilities and increased interest income, partially offset by greater interest expense. Fourth quarter adjusted EPS and diluted EPS were $0.28 and $0.20, respectively. These measures increased 40% and 186% due to the same factors impacting adjusted net income and net income, as well as lower share counts from share repurchase activity during 2006.
 
Discussion of Results  Full Year 2006
Gross bookings increased 10% in 2006 compared with 2005. Domestic gross bookings increased 6% and international gross bookings increased 26%, or 24% excluding the impact of foreign exchange rates.
Gross Bookings & Revenue
Revenue increased 6% for the year, primarily driven by increased worldwide merchant hotel revenue, partially offset by a decline in our domestic air revenue. Domestic revenue growth was flat, and international revenue increased 24%.
Worldwide merchant hotel revenue increased 13% in 2006. The growth was primarily driven by a 10% increase in room nights stayed, including rooms delivered as a component of vacation packages, as well as by a 2% increase in revenue per room night. Revenue per room night increased due to a 6% increase in worldwide ADRs, partially offset by a decrease in hotel raw margins.
Worldwide air revenues decreased 14% in 2006 due to a 13% decrease in revenue per air ticket and a 2% decrease in air tickets sold. The decrease in revenue per air ticket reflects decreased compensation from air carriers and GDS providers. Excluding merchant air, worldwide air tickets sold would have increased 4%. Lower availability of merchant air inventory also impacted our packages revenue, which increased 1% compared with 2005.
Revenue margin was 13.0% in 2006, a decrease of 59 basis points. Domestic revenue margin decreased 76 basis points to 12.7%, while international revenue margin decreased 19 basis points to 13.9%. The decline in 2006 worldwide revenue margin was primarily due to the decline in air revenue per ticket, coupled with an increase in average worldwide airfares of 9%.
Gross profit for 2006 was $1.73 billion, up 6% compared to 2005 due to increased revenue. Gross margin increased 19 basis points to 77.5%, due primarily to an increased mix of merchant hotel revenue.
Profitability
OIBA decreased 5% to $599 million due to higher operating expenses, partially offset by higher revenue and the improvement in gross margin. OIBA as a percentage of revenue was down 283 basis points to 26.8%, primarily reflecting higher growth in selling and marketing and general and administrative expenses compared to revenue growth during the year. Operating income decreased 12% during the year to $351 million, driven by the same factors impacting OIBA, as well as a $47 million intangible asset impairment, partially offset by lower amortization expense related to intangible assets and lower stock-based compensation.
Adjusted net income for the year decreased by $25 million compared with 2005 due to lower OIBA, decreased interest income from lower cash balances and increased interest expense related to our Senior Notes issue. Net income increased by $16 million due to a lower effective tax rate, a net increase in income related to derivatives and an asset write-off in the prior period, partially offset by a decrease in operating income, lower net interest income and increased interest expense. 2006 adjusted EPS and diluted EPS were $1.09 and $0.70, respectively. These measures decreased 8% and increased 8%, respectively, due to the same factors impacting adjusted net income and net income.
Net cash provided by operating activities in 2006 was $617 million and free cash flow was $525 million. Both measures include $133 million from a positive net change in operating assets and liabilities, primarily driven by our merchant hotel business.
Cash Flows & Working Capital
Free cash flow in 2006 decreased $282 million from 2005 due primarily to increased cash taxes, increased capital expenditures, reduced benefit from working capital, lower OIBA and lower net interest income due to reduced cash balances. In addition, we reclassified the effect of exchange rates on our cash balances from "net cash provided by operating activities" to "effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents" in our statements of cash flows.
 
Recent Highlights
Global Presence
Brand Portfolio
Content & Innovation
Partner Services Group ("PSG")
 
 
 
 
Income Statement Notes
Gross Bookings / Revenue
Cost of Revenue
Operating Expenses (non-GAAP)
(Stock-based compensation expense has been excluded from all calculations and discussions below)
Selling and Marketing (non-GAAP)
 
General and Administrative (non-GAAP)
Technology and Content (non-GAAP)
Stock-Based Compensation Expense
 
Other, Net
Income Taxes
Foreign Exchange, Acquisitions
 
Balance Sheet Notes
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash
Accounts and Notes Receivable
Prepaid Merchant Bookings
Prepaid Expenses and Other Current Assets
Long-Term Investments and Other Assets
Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net
 
Deferred Merchant Bookings and Accounts Payable, Merchant
Borrowings
Other Current Liabilities
Derivative Liabilities
 
Other Long-Term Liabilities
Minority Interest
Purchase Obligations
Common Stock
 
Class B Common Stock
Warrants
Stock-Based Awards
Basic, Fully Diluted and Adjusted Diluted Shares
 
 Total retail value of transactions booked for both agency and merchant transactions, recorded at the time of booking. Bookings include the total price due for travel, including taxes, fees and other charges, and are generally not reduced for cancellations and refunds.  Quantity of purchases reported as booked, net of cancellations. Packages purchased using our packages wizard, which by definition include a merchant hotel, are recorded as a single transaction.  Worldwide merchant hotel nights, net of cancellations. With the exception of Hotwire, which records room nights upon booking, nights are reported as stayed. This metric includes nights stayed on both a package and stand-alone basis.
Notes & Definitions:
Gross Bookings
Number of Transactions
Merchant Hotel Room Nights
 
Definitions of Non-GAAP Measures
Expedia, Inc. reports Operating Income Before Amortization, Adjusted Net Income, Adjusted EPS, Free Cash Flow and non-GAAP operating expense (non-GAAP selling and marketing, non-GAAP general and administrative and non-GAAP technology and content), all of which are supplemental measures to GAAP and are defined by the SEC as non-GAAP financial measures. These measures are among the primary metrics by which management evaluates the performance of the business, on which internal budgets are based and by which management is compensated. Management believes that investors should have access to the same set of tools that management uses to analyze our results. These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for or superior to GAAP. We endeavor to compensate for the limitation of the non-GAAP measures presented by also providing the most directly comparable GAAP measures and descriptions of the reconciling items and adjustments to derive the non-GAAP measures.
is defined as operating income plus: (1) amortization of non-cash distribution and marketing expense, (2) stock-based compensation expense, (3) amortization of intangible assets and goodwill and/or intangible asset impairment, if applicable and (4) certain one-time items, if applicable. OIBA represents the combined operating results of Expedia, Inc.'s businesses, taking into account depreciation, which we believe is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the effects of other non-cash expenses that may not be indicative of our core business operations. Management believes this measure is useful to investors because it corresponds more closely to the cash operating income generated from our core operations by excluding significant non-cash operating expenses, it aids in forecasting and analyzing future operating income as stock-based compensation, amortization of intangibles (assuming no subsequent acquisitions), and non-cash distribution and marketing expenses have declined and are likely to decline going forward and because it provides greater insight into management decision making at Expedia, Inc. as OIBA is our primary internal metric for evaluating the performance of our businesses. OIBA has certain limitations in that it does not take into account the impact of certain expenses to Expedia, Inc.'s statements of income, including stock-based compensation, non-cash payments to partners, acquisition-related accounting and certain one-time items, if applicable. Due to the high variability and difficulty in predicting certain items that affect net income, such as tax rates, stock price and interest rates, Expedia, Inc. is unable to provide a reconciliation to net income on a forward-looking basis without unreasonable efforts.
Operating Income Before Amortization ("OIBA")
generally captures all items on the statements of income that have been, or ultimately will be, settled in cash and is defined as net income available to stockholders plus net of tax (1) amortization of non-cash distribution and marketing expense, (2) stock-based compensation expense, (3) amortization of intangible assets and goodwill and/or intangible impairment, if applicable, (4) one-time items, (5) mark to market gains and losses on derivative liabilities, (6) discontinued operations and (7) the minority interest impact of the aforementioned adjustment items. We believe Adjusted Net Income is useful to investors because it represents Expedia, Inc.'s combined results, taking into account depreciation, which management believes is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the impact of other non-cash expenses and items not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses.
Adjusted Net Income
is defined as Adjusted Net Income divided by weighted fully diluted shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS purposes. We include dilution from options and warrants per the treasury stock method and include all shares relating to RSUs in shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS. This differs from the GAAP method for including RSUs, which treats them on a treasury method basis. Shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS purposes are therefore higher than shares outstanding for GAAP EPS purposes. We believe Adjusted EPS is useful to investors because it represents, on a per share basis, Expedia's consolidated results, taking into account depreciation, which we believe is an ongoing cost of doing business, as well as other charges which are not allocated to the operating businesses such as interest expense, taxes and minority interest, but excluding the effects of non-cash expenses not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses. Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted EPS have similar limitations as OIBA. In addition, Adjusted Net Income does not include all items that affect our net income and net income per share for the period. Therefore, we think it is important to evaluate these measures along with our consolidated statements of income.
Adjusted EPS
is defined as net cash flow provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. Management believes Free Cash Flow is useful to investors because it represents the operating cash flow that our operating businesses generate, less capital expenditures but before taking into account other cash movements that are not directly tied to the
Free Cash Flow
 
core operations of our businesses, such as financing activities, foreign exchange or certain investing activities. Free Cash Flow has certain limitations in that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period, nor does it represent the residual cash flow for discretionary expenditures. Therefore, it is important to evaluate Free Cash Flow along with the consolidated statements of cash flows.
exclude stock-based compensation related to expenses for stock options, restricted stock units and other equity compensation under FAS 123(R). Expedia, Inc. excludes stock-based compensation expenses from these measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses that we do not believe are necessarily reflective of our ongoing cash operating expenses and cash operating income. These expenses are also likely to decline in the near future as we no longer award options as our primary form of equity compensation. In addition, due to historical accounting charges and credits related to our spin-off, changes in forfeiture estimates and other events, stock-based compensation has been highly variable in some historical quarters, impairing year-on-year and quarter-to-quarter comparability. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types that companies can use when adopting FAS 123(R), management believes that providing non-GAAP financial measures that exclude stock-based compensation allows investors to make meaningful comparisons between our recurring core business operating results and those of other companies, as well as providing management with an important tool for financial operational decision making and for evaluating our own recurring core business operating results over different periods of time. There are certain limitations in using financial measures that do not take into account stock-based compensation, including the fact that stock-based compensation is a recurring expense and a valued part of employees' compensation. Therefore it is important to evaluate both our GAAP and non-GAAP measures. See the Note to the Consolidated Statements of Income for stock-based compensation by line item.
Non-GAAP cost of revenue, selling and marketing, general and administrative and technology and content expenses excluding stock-based compensation
Tabular Reconciliations for Non-GAAP Measures
Operating Income Before Amortization
 
Adjusted Net Income & Adjusted EPS
Free Cash Flow
Non-GAAP cost of revenue, selling and marketing, general and administrative and technology and content expenses excluding stock-based compensation
 
Conference Call
Expedia, Inc. will audiocast a conference call to discuss fourth quarter and full-year 2006 financial results and certain forward-looking information on Thursday, February 15, 2007 at 8:00 a.m. Pacific Time (PT). The audiocast will be open to the public and available via http://www.expediainc.com/ir. Expedia, Inc. expects to maintain access to the audiocast on the IR website for approximately three months subsequent to the initial broadcast.
Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. These forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations as of February 15, 2007 and assumptions which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. The use of words such as "intends," "plans" and "believes," among others, generally identify forward-looking statements. However, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements and may include statements relating to future revenues, expenses, margins, profitability, net income, earnings per share and other measures of results of operation and the prospects for future growth of Expedia, Inc.'s business.
Actual results and the timing and outcome of events may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, among others: Expedia, Inc.'s ability to effectively update, automate and integrate disparate financial and accounting systems and approaches among its brands and businesses; the accuracy, integrity, security and redundancy of systems, including financial and accounting systems, and networks of Expedia, Inc.; reliance on newly implemented systems supporting our financial planning and projections; changes in our relationships with travel suppliers or GDS partners; adverse changes in senior management; the rate of growth of the internet and online travel; our inability to recognize the benefits of our investment in technologies; changes in the competitive environment, the e-commerce industry and broadband access; declines or disruptions in the travel industry (including those caused by decreased consumer and business spending, adverse weather, bankruptcies, health risks, war, terrorism and/or general economic downturns); the rate of online migration in the various geographies and markets in which Expedia, Inc. operates, including Asia; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; changing laws, rules and regulations and legal uncertainties relating to our business; Expedia, Inc.'s ability to expand successfully in international markets; possible charges resulting from, among other events, integration and process review activities, platform migration and shared services efforts; failure to realize cost efficiencies; the successful completion of any future corporate transactions or acquisitions; and the integration of current and acquired businesses; and other risks detailed in Expedia, Inc.'s public filings with the SEC, including Expedia, Inc.'s most recent quarterly report on Form 10-Q and its annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2005.
Except as required by law, Expedia, Inc. undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking or other statements in this press release, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Basis of Presentation
On August 9, 2005, IAC separated into two companies. As a result, Expedia, Inc. became a separate public company (the "Spin-Off"). These financial statements present results of operations, financial position and cash flows on a combined basis until the Spin-Off and on a consolidated basis thereafter. The unaudited financial statements relating to periods prior to August 9, 2005 were prepared on a combined basis because there was no direct ownership relationship among any or all of the businesses that comprised Expedia, Inc. upon Spin-Off.
About Expedia, Inc.
Expedia, Inc. is the world's leading online travel company, empowering business and leisure travelers with the tools and information they need to easily research, plan, book and experience travel. Expedia, Inc. also provides wholesale travel to
 
offline retail travel agents. Expedia, Inc.'s portfolio of brands include: Expedia.com, hotels.com, Hotwire, Expedia Corporate Travel, TripAdvisor and Classic Vacations. Expedia, Inc.'s companies also operate internationally with sites in Canada, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Australia, Japan, Denmark, Sweden, Norway and China, through its investment in eLong. For more information, visit http://www.expediainc.com (NASDAQ: EXPE).
Expedia, Expedia.com, WWTE and the Airplane logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Expedia, Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. Classic Vacations and the Bird of Paradise logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Classic Vacations, LLC in the U.S. and/or other countries. hotels.com, the hotels.com logo and We Know Hotels Inside And Out are either registered trademarks or trademarks in the U.S. and/or other countries of Hotels.com, L.P., a subsidiary of Hotels.com. Hotwire, Hotwire.com and Travel Ticker are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Hotwire, Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. eLong and the eLong logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of eLong, Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. TripAdvisor, the Owl Logo and Get The Truth. Then Go. are either registered trademarks or trademarks in the U.S. and/or other countries of TripAdvisor LLC. Other logos and product or company names mentioned herein may be the property of their respective owners.
 2007 Expedia, Inc. All rights reserved. CST 2029030-40.


