FILE:EXPE/EXPE-8K-20070508085437.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On May 8, 2007, Expedia, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Expedia"), issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2007. The full text of this press release, appearing in Exhibit 99.1 hereto, is incorporated herein by reference.
     Expedia makes reference to non-GAAP financial information in the press release. Information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures is contained in the attached press release.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
BELLEVUE, Wash.May 8, 2007Expedia, Inc. (NASDAQ: EXPE) today announced financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2007.
"From the very difficult prior year, and a first quarter this year reflecting growth, we begin 2007 with renewed confidence in Expedia's operations and business model," said Barry Diller, Expedia, Inc.'s Chairman and Senior Executive. "With accelerating transaction growth, a 32% increase in European bookings, 11% revenue growth and the very beginning echoes of resurgence at Expedia.com we are seeing the early results of the reinvestments and reorganizations that made last year so challenging. We can't yet say what the next quarter or year may bring, but clear progress is being made both under the hood of daily work and structurally, with reduced share counts and a focus on managing for free cash flow over the long term."
"Recent signings of Frontier Airlines, Omni Hotels, Shangri-La Hotels and Hertz by our Partner Services Group demonstrate Expedia's ongoing progress in assembling the world's most compelling marketplace of travel products and services," said Dara Khosrowshahi, Expedia, Inc.'s CEO and President. "Combined with the first quarter's 18% OIBA growth and Expedia.com's Summer Sale featuring 30% discounts on hotels, cars and activities at over 200 destinations, we begin 2007 with renewed energy to address the challenges before us."
Financial Summary & Operating Metrics (figures in $MM's, except per share amounts)
*"Operating income before amortization," "Adjusted net income," "Adjusted EPS," and "Free cash flow" are non-GAAP measures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Please see "Definitions of Non-GAAP Measures" and "Tabular Reconciliations for Non-GAAP Measures" on pages 15-18 herein for an explanation of non-GAAP measures used throughout this release.
 
Discussion of Results
Note: Commencing this quarter, we will report selected results on a segment basis: "North America," "Europe," and "Other" (comprised of Expedia Corporate Travel ("ECT"), Asia Pacific and unallocated corporate functions and expenses).
Gross bookings increased 8% for the first quarter of 2007 compared with the first quarter of 2006. North America bookings increased 1%, Europe bookings increased 32% (22% excluding the impact of foreign exchange), and Other bookings increased 23%.
Gross Bookings & Revenue
Revenue increased 11% for the first quarter, primarily driven by increased worldwide merchant hotel revenue and advertising revenue (net of intercompany transactions), partially offset by a decline in North America air revenue. North America revenue increased 6%, Europe revenue increased 29% (20% excluding the impact of foreign exchange), and Other revenue increased 28%.
Worldwide merchant hotel revenue increased 17% for the first quarter due to a 13% increase in revenue per room night and a 3% increase in room nights stayed, including rooms delivered as a component of vacation packages. Revenue per room night increased due to a 9% increase in worldwide average daily rates ("ADRs") and an increase in hotel raw margin compared to first quarter 2006.
Worldwide air revenue decreased 16% for the first quarter due to a 20% decrease in revenue per air ticket, partially offset by a 5% increase in air tickets sold. The decrease in revenue per air ticket reflects decreased compensation from air carriers and global distribution system ("GDS") providers. Packages revenue decreased 2% compared with the prior year period due to lower North American package volumes and lower worldwide revenue per air ticket.
Worldwide revenue from products and services other than merchant hotel and air (including net advertising, car rentals, destination services and cruises), increased 35% for the first quarter due primarily to increases in net advertising and car rental revenues.
Revenue as a percentage of gross bookings ("revenue margin") was 10.98% for the first quarter, an increase of 35 basis points. North America revenue margin increased 57 basis points to 11.42%, Europe revenue margin decreased 27 basis points to 10.66%, and Other revenue margin increased 32 basis points to 8.02%. The first quarter increase in worldwide and North America revenue margin was primarily due to higher merchant hotel raw margin as compared to first quarter 2006, and an increased mix of net advertising revenue, partially offset by the decline in revenue per air ticket. Europe revenue margin decreased in part due to a 12% increase in airfares compared with a 1% decrease in North America airfares, as our remuneration generally does not vary with the price of air tickets.
Gross profit for the first quarter of 2007 was $429 million, an increase of 15% compared with the first quarter of 2006 primarily due to increased revenue and a 212 basis point increase in gross margin to 77.97%. The gross margin increase was due to cost savings from our Apollo and other cost cutting initiatives, higher merchant hotel raw margin and an increased mix of net advertising revenue, partially offset by a lower margin on our agency air product.
Profitability
OIBA for the first quarter increased 18% to $104 million, driven in part by higher revenue. In addition, OIBA as a percentage of revenue increased 104 basis points to 18.96%, primarily reflecting a higher gross margin, partially offset by higher growth in technology and content expenses excluding stock-based compensation as a percentage of revenue. Operating income increased 157% to $67 million due to the same factors impacting OIBA, as well as lower amortization expenses related to intangibles, stock-based compensation and non-cash distribution and marketing expense.
Adjusted net income for the first quarter increased $2 million due to increased OIBA, partially offset by greater net interest expense, foreign exchange losses and a higher effective tax rate. Net income increased $11 million due to an increase in operating income, partially offset by a higher effective tax rate, a net decrease in other, net and greater net interest expense. First quarter adjusted EPS and diluted EPS were $0.18 and $0.11, respectively. These measures increased 20% and 83% due to the same factors impacting adjusted net income and net income, as well as lower net share counts from share repurchase activity during 2006 and the first quarter of 2007.
 
For the three months ended March 31, 2007, net cash provided by operating activities was $538 million and free cash flow was $520 million. Both measures include $443 million from changes in operating assets and liabilities, primarily driven by our merchant hotel business. Free cash flow for the first quarter increased $81 million due primarily to an increase in changes in operating assets and liabilities, lower cash taxes and higher OIBA, partially offset by higher interest payments and increased capital expenditures, as compared with the prior year period.
Cash Flows & Working Capital
Recent Highlights
     
Global Presence
     
Brand Portfolio
     
Content & Innovation
     
Partner Services Group ("PSG")
 
 
 
 
Income Statement Notes
Gross Bookings / Revenue
Cost of Revenue
Operating Expenses (non-GAAP)
(Stock-based compensation expense has been excluded from all calculations and discussions below)
 
Stock-Based Compensation Expense
Other, Net
Income Taxes
 
Foreign Exchange
Acquisitions & Long-Term Investments
Balance Sheet Notes
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash
 
Accounts and Notes Receivable
Prepaid Merchant Booking, Prepaid Expenses and Other Current Assets
Long-Term Investments and Other Assets
Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net
Accounts Payable, Other
Deferred Merchant Bookings and Accounts Payable, Merchant
 
Borrowings
Other Current Liabilities
Derivative Liabilities
Other Long-Term Liabilities
 
Minority Interest
Purchase Obligations and Contractual Commitments
Common Stock
Class B Common Stock
Warrants
Stock-Based Awards
 
Basic, Fully Diluted and Adjusted Diluted Shares
 
 
 
Notes & Definitions:
 Total retail value of transactions booked for both agency and merchant transactions, recorded at the time of booking. Bookings include the total price due for travel, including taxes, fees and other charges, and are generally not reduced for cancellations and refunds.
Gross Bookings
 Quantity of purchases reported as booked, net of cancellations. Packages purchased using our packages wizard, which by definition include a merchant hotel, are recorded as a single transaction.
Number of Transactions
 Worldwide merchant hotel nights, net of cancellations. With the exception of Hotwire, which records room nights upon booking, nights are reported as stayed. This metric includes nights stayed on both a package and stand-alone basis.
Merchant Hotel Room Nights
 reflects results for travel products and services provided to customers in the United States, Canada, Mexico and Latin America. Includes 100% of TripAdvisor as it is managed in North America.
North America
 reflects results for travel products and services provided through localized Expedia websites in Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom and localized versions of Hotels.com in various European countries.
Europe
 Includes Expedia Corporate Travel, Asia Pacific and unallocated corporate functions and expenses.
Other
Definitions of Non-GAAP Measures
Expedia, Inc. reports Operating Income Before Amortization, Adjusted Net Income, Adjusted EPS, Free Cash Flow and non-GAAP operating expense (non-GAAP selling and marketing, non-GAAP general and administrative and non-GAAP technology and content), all of which are supplemental measures to GAAP and are defined by the SEC as non-GAAP financial measures. These measures are among the primary metrics by which management evaluates the performance of the business, on which internal budgets are based and by which management is compensated. Management believes that investors should have access to the same set of tools that management uses to analyze our results. These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for or superior to GAAP. We endeavor to compensate for the limitation of the non-GAAP measures presented by also providing the most directly comparable GAAP measures and descriptions of the reconciling items and adjustments to derive the non-GAAP measures.
is defined as operating income plus: (1) amortization of non-cash distribution and marketing expense, (2) stock-based compensation expense, (3) amortization of intangible assets and goodwill and/or intangible asset impairment, if applicable and (4) certain one-time items, if applicable. OIBA represents the combined operating results of Expedia, Inc.'s businesses, taking into account depreciation, which we believe is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the effects of other non-cash expenses that may not be indicative of our core business operations. Management believes this measure is useful to investors because it corresponds more closely to the cash operating income generated from our core operations by excluding significant non-cash operating expenses, it aids in forecasting and analyzing future operating income as stock-based compensation, amortization of intangibles (assuming no subsequent acquisitions), and non-cash distribution and marketing expenses have declined and are likely to decline going forward and because it provides greater insight into management decision making at Expedia, Inc. as OIBA is our primary internal metric for evaluating the performance of our businesses. OIBA has certain limitations in that it does not take into account the impact of certain expenses to Expedia, Inc.'s statements of income, including stock-based compensation, non-cash payments to partners, acquisition-related accounting and certain one-time items, if applicable. Due to the high variability and difficulty in predicting certain items that affect net income, such as tax rates, stock price and interest rates, Expedia, Inc. is unable to provide a reconciliation to net income on a forward-looking basis without unreasonable efforts.
Operating Income Before Amortization ("OIBA")
generally captures all items on the statements of income that have been, or ultimately will be, settled in cash and is defined as net income available to stockholders plus net of tax (1) amortization of non-cash distribution and marketing expense, (2) stock-based compensation expense, (3) amortization of intangible assets and goodwill and/or intangible impairment, if applicable, (4) one-time items, (5) mark to market gains and losses on derivative liabilities, (6) discontinued operations and (7) the minority interest impact of the aforementioned adjustment items. We believe Adjusted Net Income is useful to investors because it represents Expedia, Inc.'s combined results, taking into account depreciation, which management believes is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the impact of other non-cash expenses and items not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses.
Adjusted Net Income
 
is defined as Adjusted Net Income divided by weighted fully diluted shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS purposes. We include dilution from options and warrants per the treasury stock method and include all shares relating to RSUs in shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS. This differs from the GAAP method for including RSUs, which treats them on a treasury method basis. Shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS purposes are therefore higher than shares outstanding for GAAP EPS purposes. We believe Adjusted EPS is useful to investors because it represents, on a per share basis, Expedia's consolidated results, taking into account depreciation, which we believe is an ongoing cost of doing business, as well as other charges which are not allocated to the operating businesses such as interest expense, taxes and minority interest, but excluding the effects of non-cash expenses not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses. Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted EPS have similar limitations as OIBA. In addition, Adjusted Net Income does not include all items that affect our net income and net income per share for the period. Therefore, we think it is important to evaluate these measures along with our consolidated statements of income.
Adjusted EPS
is defined as net cash flow provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. Management believes Free Cash Flow is useful to investors because it represents the operating cash flow that our operating businesses generate, less capital expenditures but before taking into account other cash movements that are not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses, such as financing activities, foreign exchange or certain investing activities. Free Cash Flow has certain limitations in that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period, nor does it represent the residual cash flow for discretionary expenditures. Therefore, it is important to evaluate Free Cash Flow along with the consolidated statements of cash flows.
Free Cash Flow
exclude stock-based compensation related to expenses for stock options, restricted stock units and other equity compensation under FAS 123(R). Expedia, Inc. excludes stock-based compensation expenses from these measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses that we do not believe are necessarily reflective of our ongoing cash operating expenses and cash operating income. These expenses are also likely to decline in the near future as we no longer award options as our primary form of equity compensation. In addition, due to historical accounting charges and credits related to our spin-off, changes in forfeiture estimates and other events, stock-based compensation has been highly variable in some historical quarters, impairing year-on-year and quarter-to-quarter comparability. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types that companies can use when adopting FAS 123(R), management believes that providing non-GAAP financial measures that exclude stock-based compensation allows investors to make meaningful comparisons between our recurring core business operating results and those of other companies, as well as providing management with an important tool for financial operational decision making and for evaluating our own recurring core business operating results over different periods of time. There are certain limitations in using financial measures that do not take into account stock-based compensation, including the fact that stock-based compensation is a recurring expense and a valued part of employees' compensation. Therefore it is important to evaluate both our GAAP and non-GAAP measures. See the Note to the Consolidated Statements of Income for stock-based compensation by line item.
Non-GAAP cost of revenue, selling and marketing, general and administrative and technology and content expenses excluding stock-based compensation
 
Tabular Reconciliations for Non-GAAP Measures
Operating Income Before Amortization
Adjusted Net Income & Adjusted EPS
Free Cash Flow
 
Non-GAAP cost of revenue, selling and marketing, general and administrative and technology and content expenses excluding stock-based compensation
Conference Call
Expedia, Inc. will audiocast a conference call to discuss first quarter 2007 financial results and certain forward-looking information on Tuesday, May 8, 2007 at 8:00 a.m. Pacific Time (PT). The audiocast will be open to the public and available via http://www.expediainc.com/ir. Expedia, Inc. expects to maintain access to the audiocast on the IR website for approximately three months subsequent to the initial broadcast.
Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. These forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations as of May 8, 2007 and assumptions which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. The use of words such as "intends" and "expects" among others, generally identify forward-looking statements. However, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements and may include statements relating to future revenues, expenses, margins, profitability, net income, earnings per share and other measures of results of operation and the prospects for future growth of Expedia, Inc.'s business.
Actual results and the timing and outcome of events may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, among others: changes in Expedia, Inc.'s relationships and contractual agreements with travel suppliers or GDS partners, our ability to effectively update, automate and integrate disparate financial and accounting systems and approaches among its brands and businesses; the accuracy, integrity, security and redundancy of systems, including financial and accounting systems, and networks of Expedia, Inc.; reliance on newly implemented systems supporting our financial planning and projections; adverse changes in senior management; the rate of growth of the internet and online travel; our inability to recognize the benefits of our investment in technologies; changes in the competitive environment, the e-commerce industry and broadband access; declines or disruptions in the travel industry (including those caused by decreased consumer and business spending, adverse weather, bankruptcies, health risks, war, terrorism and/or general economic downturns); the rate of online migration in the various geographies and markets in which Expedia, Inc. operates, including Asia; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; changing laws, rules and regulations and legal uncertainties relating to our business; Expedia, Inc.'s ability to expand successfully in international markets; possible charges resulting from, among other events, integration and process review activities, platform migration and shared services efforts; failure to realize cost efficiencies; the successful completion of any future corporate transactions or acquisitions; and the integration of current and acquired businesses; and other risks detailed in Expedia, Inc.'s public filings with the SEC, including Expedia, Inc.'s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006.
 
Except as required by law, Expedia, Inc. undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking or other statements in this press release, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
About Expedia, Inc.
Expedia, Inc. is the world's leading online travel company, empowering business and leisure travelers with the tools and information they need to easily research, plan, book and experience travel. Expedia, Inc. also provides wholesale travel to offline retail travel agents. Expedia, Inc.'s portfolio of brands include: Expedia.com, hotels.com, Hotwire, Expedia Corporate Travel, TripAdvisor and Classic Vacations. Expedia, Inc.'s companies also operate internationally with sites in Australia, Canada, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden, the United Kingdom and China, through its investment in eLong. For more information, visit http://www.expediainc.com (NASDAQ: EXPE).
Expedia, Expedia.com, WWTE and the Airplane logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Expedia, Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. Classic Vacations and the Bird of Paradise logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Classic Vacations, LLC in the U.S. and/or other countries. hotels.com, the hotels.com logo and We Know Hotels Inside And Out are either registered trademarks or trademarks in the U.S. and/or other countries of Hotels.com, L.P., a subsidiary of Hotels.com. Hotwire, Hotwire.com and Travel Ticker are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Hotwire, Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. eLong and the eLong logo are either registered trademarks or trademarks of eLong, Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. TripAdvisor, the Owl Logo and Get The Truth. Then Go. are either registered trademarks or trademarks in the U.S. and/or other countries of TripAdvisor LLC. Other logos and product or company names mentioned herein may be the property of their respective owners.
2007 Expedia, Inc. All rights reserved. CST 2029030-40.


