FILE:EXPE/EXPE-8K-20080501090037.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
          On May 1, 2008, Expedia, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Expedia"), issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2008. The full text of this press release is included as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
          Expedia makes reference to non-GAAP financial information in the press release. Information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures is contained in the attached press release and also in Exhibit 99.2 hereto. Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 are incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
BELLEVUE, Wash.May 1, 2008Expedia, Inc. (NASDAQ: EXPE) today announced financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2008.
"With over $20 billion in annual gross bookings and excellent first quarter results, Expedia is far and away the leader in online travel services," said Barry Diller, Expedia, Inc.'s Chairman and Senior Executive. "Our unique mix of both transactional and advertising revenues, each operating at meaningful scale, continues to deliver strong profitable growth."
"Expedia employees around the globe continued to execute in the first quarter, delivering record gross bookings and solid OIBA growth," said Dara Khosrowshahi, Expedia, Inc.'s CEO and President. "While 2008 continues to present an uncertain economic backdrop, Expedia remains focused on investing in our leadership position to drive growth in long-term free cash flow and shareholder value."
Financial Summary & Operating Metrics (figures in MM's, except per share amounts)
 
 
Discussion of Results
Gross Bookings & Revenue
Gross bookings increased 20% for the first quarter of 2008 compared with the first quarter of 2007. North America bookings increased 15%, Europe bookings increased 34% (25% excluding the net benefit from foreign exchange) and Other bookings (primarily Expedia Corporate Travel and our Asia Pacific operations) increased 31%.
Revenue increased 25% for the first quarter, primarily driven by increased worldwide merchant hotel revenue and advertising and media revenue. North America revenue increased 22%, Europe revenue increased 33% (23% excluding foreign exchange) and Other revenue increased 38%.
Worldwide merchant hotel revenue increased 22% for the first quarter due to a 23% increase in room nights stayed, including rooms delivered as a component of vacation packages, offset slightly by a 1% decrease in revenue per room night. Revenue per room night decreased due to a 108 basis point decline in hotel margin, partially offset by a 3% increase in worldwide average daily rates.
Worldwide air revenue increased 18% for the first quarter due to an 11% increase in air tickets sold and a 6% increase in revenue per air ticket.
Worldwide revenue from products and services other than merchant hotel and air (including advertising and media, car rentals, destination services, agency hotel and cruises), increased 39% for the first quarter due primarily to increased advertising and media revenues and car rental revenues. Package revenue increased 13% primarily due to higher package gross bookings worldwide.
Revenue as a percentage of gross bookings ("revenue margin") was 11.65% for the first quarter, an increase of 47 basis points. North America revenue margin increased 68 basis points to 12.10%, Europe revenue margin decreased 6 basis points to 11.65%, and Other revenue margin increased 39 basis points to 8.41%. The first quarter increase in North America revenue margin was primarily due to an increased mix of advertising and media revenues as compared to first quarter 2007. Europe revenue margin decreased primarily due to lower revenue from more competitive hotel pricing and lower consumer air fees. Worldwide and segment revenue margins benefited from higher revenues associated with completed Easter travel, which occurred in the first quarter of 2008 compared to the second quarter of 2007.
Profitability
Gross profit for the first quarter of 2008 was $536 million, an increase of 25% compared with the first quarter of 2007 due to increased revenue.
OIBA for the first quarter increased 21% to $126 million, driven primarily by higher revenue. OIBA as a percentage of revenue decreased 66 basis points to 18.30%, primarily reflecting higher growth in sales and marketing expenses excluding stock-based compensation as a percentage of revenue. Operating income increased 34% to $90 million primarily due to the same factors driving OIBA growth as well as lower amortization and stock based compensation as a percentage of revenue.
Adjusted net income for the first quarter increased $11 million compared to the prior year period driven by higher OIBA, partially offset by a higher net interest expense. Net income increased $17 million due to the same factors impacting adjusted net income as well as an unrealized gain on the Ask convertible notes ("Ask Notes"), compared to an unrealized loss in the prior year period, partially offset by an increase in net foreign exchange losses. First quarter adjusted EPS and diluted EPS were $0.24 and $0.17, respectively. These measures increased 33% and 55% due to higher net income and lower weighted average share counts primarily resulting from shares repurchased in August 2007.
Cash Flows & Working Capital
For the three months ended March 31, 2008, net cash provided by operating activities was $564 million and free cash flow was $531 million. Both measures include $457 million from net changes in operating assets and liabilities, primarily driven by our merchant hotel business. Free cash flow for the first quarter increased $11 million due primarily to increased net changes in operating assets and liabilities and higher OIBA, partially offset by increased capital expenditures and an increase in cash paid for interest and taxes as compared with the prior year period.
 
Recent Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
Income Statement Notes
Gross Bookings / Revenue
Cost of Revenue
Operating Expenses (non-GAAP)
(Stock-based compensation expense has been excluded from all calculations and discussions below)
Operating expenses include $13 million of depreciation expense for the first quarter of 2008, and $11 million for the comparable prior year period.
Selling and Marketing (non-GAAP)
 
General and Administrative (non-GAAP)
Technology and Content (non-GAAP)
Stock-Based Compensation Expense
Other, Net
Income Taxes
 
Foreign Exchange
Acquisitions
Adjusted Net Income & Adjusted EPS
 
Balance Sheet Notes
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash
Accounts and Notes Receivable
Prepaid Merchant Booking, Prepaid Expenses and Other Current Assets
Long-Term Investments and Other Assets
Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net
Accounts Payable, Other
Deferred Merchant Bookings and Accounts Payable, Merchant
 
Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities
Ask Derivative Liability
Borrowings
 
Other Long-Term Liabilities
Minority Interest
Purchase Obligations and Contractual Commitments
Common Stock
Class B Common Stock
Warrants
 
Shelf Registration
Stock-Based Awards
Basic, Fully Diluted and Adjusted Diluted Shares
 
 
 
Notes & Definitions:
 Quantity of purchases reported as booked, net of cancellations. Packages purchased using our packages wizard, which by definition include a merchant hotel, are recorded as a single transaction.
Number of Transactions
 Total retail value of transactions booked for both agency and merchant transactions, recorded at the time of booking. Bookings include the total price due for travel, including taxes, fees and other charges, and are generally reduced for cancellations and refunds.
Gross Bookings
 Reflects results for travel products and services provided to customers in the United States, Canada, Mexico and Latin America. Includes 100% of TripAdvisor as it is managed in North America.
North America
 Reflects results for travel products and services provided through localized Expedia websites in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom and localized versions of hotels.com in various European countries.
Europe
 Includes Expedia Corporate Travel, Asia Pacific and unallocated corporate functions and expenses.
Other
 Worldwide merchant hotel nights, net of cancellations. With the exception of Hotwire, which records room nights upon booking, nights are reported as stayed. This metric includes nights stayed on both a package and stand-alone basis.
Merchant Hotel Room Nights
Definitions of Non-GAAP Measures
Expedia, Inc. reports Operating Income Before Amortization, Adjusted Net Income, Adjusted EPS, Free Cash Flow and non-GAAP operating expense (non-GAAP selling and marketing, non-GAAP general and administrative and non-GAAP technology and content), all of which are supplemental measures to GAAP and are defined by the SEC as non-GAAP financial measures. These measures are among the primary metrics by which management evaluates the performance of the business, on which internal budgets are based and by which management is compensated. Management believes that investors should have access to the same set of tools that management uses to analyze our results. These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for or superior to GAAP. We endeavor to compensate for the limitation of the non-GAAP measures presented by also providing the most directly comparable GAAP measures and descriptions of the reconciling items and adjustments to derive the non-GAAP measures.
is defined as operating income plus: (1) stock-based compensation expense, (2) amortization of intangible assets and goodwill and/or intangible asset impairment, if applicable and (3) certain one-time items, if applicable. OIBA represents the combined operating results of Expedia, Inc.'s businesses, taking into account depreciation (including internal-use software and website development), which we believe is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the effects of other non-cash expenses that may not be indicative of our core business operations. Management believes this measure is useful to investors because it corresponds more closely to the cash operating income generated from our core operations by excluding significant non-cash operating expenses such as stock-based compensation, and because it provides greater insight into management decision making at Expedia, Inc. as OIBA is our primary internal metric for evaluating the performance of our businesses. OIBA has certain limitations in that it does not take into account the impact of certain expenses to Expedia, Inc.'s statements of income, including stock-based compensation, acquisition-related accounting and certain one-time items, if applicable. Due to the high variability and difficulty in predicting certain items that affect net income, such as tax rates, stock price and interest rates, Expedia, Inc. is unable to provide a reconciliation to net income on a forward-looking basis without unreasonable efforts.
Operating Income Before Amortization ("OIBA")
generally captures all items on the statements of income that have been, or ultimately will be, settled in cash and is defined as net income available to stockholders plus net of tax (1) stock-based compensation expense, (2) amortization of intangible assets, including as part of equity-method investments, and goodwill and/or intangible impairment, if applicable, (3) one-time items, (4) mark to market gains and losses on derivative liabilities, (5) currency gains or losses on U.S. dollar denominated cash equivalents held by eLong, (6) discontinued operations and (7) the minority interest impact of the aforementioned adjustment items. We believe Adjusted Net Income is useful to investors because it represents Expedia, Inc.'s combined results, taking into account depreciation, which management believes is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the impact of other non-cash expenses and items not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses.
Adjusted Net Income
is defined as Adjusted Net Income divided by weighted fully diluted shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS purposes. We include dilution from options and warrants per the treasury stock method and include all shares relating to
Adjusted EPS
 
RSUs in shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS. This differs from the GAAP method for including RSUs, which treats them on a treasury method basis. Shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS purposes are therefore higher than shares outstanding for GAAP EPS purposes. We believe Adjusted EPS is useful to investors because it represents, on a per share basis, Expedia's consolidated results, taking into account depreciation, which we believe is an ongoing cost of doing business, as well as other items which are not allocated to the operating businesses such as interest expense, taxes, foreign exchange gains or losses, and minority interest, but excluding the effects of non-cash expenses not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses. Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted EPS have similar limitations as OIBA. In addition, Adjusted Net Income does not include all items that affect our net income and net income per share for the period. Therefore, we think it is important to evaluate these measures along with our consolidated statements of income.
is defined as net cash flow provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. Management believes Free Cash Flow is useful to investors because it represents the operating cash flow that our operating businesses generate, less capital expenditures but before taking into account other cash movements that are not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses, such as financing activities, foreign exchange or certain investing activities. Free Cash Flow has certain limitations in that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period, nor does it represent the residual cash flow for discretionary expenditures. Therefore, it is important to evaluate Free Cash Flow along with the consolidated statements of cash flows.
Free Cash Flow
exclude stock-based compensation related to expenses for stock options, restricted stock units and other equity compensation under FAS 123(R). Expedia, Inc. excludes stock-based compensation expenses from these measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses that we do not believe are necessarily reflective of our ongoing cash operating expenses and cash operating income. In addition, due to historical accounting charges and credits related to our spin-off from IAC, changes in forfeiture estimates and other events, stock-based compensation has been highly variable in some historical quarters, impairing year-on-year and quarter-to-quarter comparability. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types that companies can use when adopting FAS 123(R), management believes that providing non-GAAP financial measures that exclude stock-based compensation allows investors to make meaningful comparisons between our recurring core business operating results and those of other companies, as well as providing management with an important tool for financial operational decision making and for evaluating our own recurring core business operating results over different periods of time. There are certain limitations in using financial measures that do not take into account stock-based compensation, including the fact that stock-based compensation is a recurring expense and a valued part of employees' compensation. Therefore it is important to evaluate both our GAAP and non-GAAP measures. See the Note to the Consolidated Statements of Income for stock-based compensation by line item.
Non-GAAP cost of revenue, selling and marketing, general and administrative and technology and content expenses excluding stock-based compensation
 
Tabular Reconciliations for Non-GAAP Measures
Operating Income Before Amortization
Adjusted Net Income & Adjusted EPS
Free Cash Flow
 
Non-GAAP cost of revenue, selling and marketing, general and administrative and technology and content expenses excluding stock-based compensation
Conference Call
Expedia, Inc. will audiocast a conference call to discuss first quarter 2008 financial results and certain forward-looking information on Thursday, May 1, 2008 at 8:00 a.m. Pacific Time (PT). The audiocast will be open to the public and available via http://www.expediainc.com/ir. Expedia, Inc. expects to maintain access to the audiocast on the IR website for approximately three months subsequent to the initial broadcast.
Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. These forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations as of May 1, 2008 and assumptions which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. The use of words such as "intends" and "expects" among others, generally identify forward-looking statements. However, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements and may include statements relating to future revenues, expenses, margins, profitability, net income, earnings per share and other measures of results of operation and the prospects for future growth of Expedia, Inc.'s business.
Actual results and the timing and outcome of events may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, among others: changes in Expedia, Inc.'s relationships and contractual agreements with travel suppliers or GDS partners; adverse changes in senior management; the rate of growth of online travel; our inability to recognize the benefits of our investment in technologies; changes in the competitive environment, the e-commerce industry and broadband access and our ability to respond to such changes; declines or disruptions in the travel industry (including those caused by decreased consumer and business spending, adverse weather, bankruptcies, health risks, war, terrorism and/or general economic downturns); the rate of online migration in the various geographies and markets in which Expedia, Inc. operates, including Eastern Europe and Asia; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; changing laws, rules and regulations and legal uncertainties relating to our business; Expedia, Inc.'s ability to expand successfully in international markets; possible charges resulting from, among other events, platform migration; failure to realize cost efficiencies; the successful completion of any future corporate transactions or acquisitions; and the integration of current and acquired businesses; and other risks detailed in Expedia, Inc.'s public filings with the SEC, including Expedia, Inc.'s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007.
 
Except as required by law, Expedia, Inc. undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking or other statements included in this press release, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
About Expedia, Inc.
Expedia, Inc. is the world's leading online travel company, empowering business and leisure travelers with the tools and information they need to easily research, plan, book and experience travel. Expedia, Inc. also provides in-destination concierge service and activity desks for travelers. The Expedia, Inc. portfolio of brands includes: Expedia.com, hotels.com, Hotwire, Expedia Corporate Travel, TripAdvisor, Expedia Local Expert, Classic Vacations and eLong. Expedia, Inc.'s companies operate more than 50 global points of sale with sites in North America, South America, Latin America, Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific. Expedia, Inc. is a component of the S&P 500 index. For more information, visit http://www.expediainc.com/(NASDAQ: EXPE).
Expedia and Expedia.com are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Expedia, Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. Classic Vacations is either a trademark or registered trademark of Classic Vacations, LLC in the U.S. and/or other countries. hotels.com is either a trademark or registered trademark of hotels.com, L.P., a subsidiary of hotels.com in the U.S. and/or other countries. Hotwire is either a trademark or registered trademark of Hotwire, Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. TripAdvisor is either a trademark or registered trademark of TripAdvisor, LLC in the U.S. and/or other countries. Other logos or product and company names mentioned herein may be the property of their respective owners.
Contacts
 2008 Expedia, Inc. All rights reserved. CST: 2029030-40

 
Exhibit 99.2
 
Additional Information Regarding Non-GAAP Financial Measures
During the first quarter of 2008, we began to exclude foreign exchange gains or losses on USD cash balances held by eLong, Inc. (a majority-owned subsidiary) from Adjusted earnings per share, a Non-GAAP financial measure, as we expect to use the cash to settle foreseeable USD obligations and commitments only. The table below provides a quantitative reconciliation between Adjusted earnings per share excluding foreign exchange gains or losses on USD cash balances held by eLong, Inc. and Diluted earnings per share, the most comparable financial measure calculated in accordance with GAAP.


