FILE:EXPE/EXPE-8K-20081030090034.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On October 30, 2008, Expedia, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Expedia"), issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2008.  The full text of this press release, appearing in Exhibit 99.1 hereto, is incorporated herein by reference.
     Expedia makes reference to non-GAAP financial information in the press release. Information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures is contained in the attached press release.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
BELLEVUE, Wash.October 30, 2008Expedia, Inc. (NASDAQ: EXPE) today announced financial results for its third quarter ended September 30, 2008.
"Yes, it's a difficult environment, but that's everyone's news, and for travel any predictions about its depth or duration would be foolish," said Barry Diller, Expedia, Inc.'s Chairman and Senior Executive. "What is important for shareholders of Expedia to know is that the Company is well capitalized, focused only on operating its sole travel services business, with no distractions, and a conviction that it will emerge stronger in every line of its business."
"Our sixth consecutive quarter of double digit room night growth and a robust advertising and media business drove respectable 10% revenue growth in this challenging environment," said Dara Khosrowshahi, Expedia, Inc.'s CEO and President. "Because the economic turmoil caused a broad pull back in travel spend in September and October, we have adjusted our investment and spending levels, and will push for further efficiencies in the fourth quarter and beyond as we look for maximum return for every dollar that we spend."
Financial Summary & Operating Metrics (figures in MM's, except per share amounts)
 
 
Discussion of Results
Gross Bookings & Revenue
Gross bookings increased 7% for the third quarter of 2008 compared with the third quarter of 2007. North America bookings increased 1%, Europe bookings increased 18% (13% excluding the net benefit from foreign exchange) and Other bookings (primarily Egencia and our Asia Pacific operations) increased 25%.
Revenue increased 10% for the third quarter, primarily driven by increased worldwide merchant hotel revenue and advertising and media revenue. North America revenue increased 7%, Europe revenue increased 16% (10% excluding foreign exchange) and Other revenue increased 24%.
Worldwide merchant hotel revenue increased 7% for the third quarter due to a 15% increase in room nights stayed, including rooms delivered as a component of packages, partially offset by a 6% decrease in revenue per room night.
Worldwide air revenue decreased 7% for the third quarter due to a 5% decrease in air tickets sold and a 2% decrease in revenue per air ticket.
Worldwide revenue from products and services other than merchant hotel and air (including advertising and media, car rentals, destination services, agency hotel and cruises) increased 27% for the third quarter due primarily to increased revenue from our advertising and media and agency hotel businesses. Package revenue decreased 5% for the quarter primarily due to weakness in key North American package markets such as Las Vegas and Hawaii.
Revenue as a percentage of gross bookings ("revenue margin") was 15.40% for the third quarter, an increase of 38 basis points. North America revenue margin increased 80 basis points to 15.99%, Europe revenue margin decreased 40 basis points to 16.64%, and Other revenue margin decreased 7 basis points to 9.01%. Worldwide and North America revenue margins increased primarily from growth of advertising and media revenue. The decrease in the Europe revenue margin was primarily driven by the impact on revenue from currency depreciation in the British pound during the quarter. In addition, revenue margins were higher due to slower bookings growth late in the third quarter of 2008 compared to the prior year period.
Profitability
Gross profit for the third quarter of 2008 was $656 million, an increase of 8% compared with the third quarter of 2007 primarily due to increased revenue, partially offset by a lower gross margin primarily related to our gas card promotion.
OIBA for the third quarter increased 8% to $231 million, driven primarily by higher revenue. OIBA as a percentage of revenue decreased 32 basis points to 27.69%, primarily reflecting higher growth in technology and content expenses excluding stock-based compensation as a percentage of revenue. Operating income increased 11% to $200 million primarily due to the same factors driving OIBA, as well as lower intangible amortization as a percentage of revenue.
Adjusted net income for the third quarter decreased $6 million and net income decreased $5 million compared to the prior year period due primarily to a $21 million foreign exchange loss from holding Euros in order to economically hedge the purchase price of an acquisition and higher net interest expense resulting from $400 million of new notes issued in June 2008. These were partially offset by higher OIBA and operating income. Third quarter adjusted EPS and diluted EPS were $0.39 and $0.33, compared to $0.39 and $0.32, respectively, in the prior year. The EPS impact from decreases in adjusted net income and net income were offset by declines in weighted average shares outstanding
.
Cash Flows & Working Capital
For the nine months ended September 30, 2008, net cash provided by operating activities was $768 million and free cash flow was $649 million. Both measures include $308 million from net changes in operating assets and liabilities, primarily driven by our merchant hotel business. Free cash flow decreased $259 million from the prior year period primarily due to decreased net changes in operating assets and liabilities (primarily from slower bookings growth and to a lesser extent faster hotelier payment processing), increased capital expenditures and higher cash taxes, offsetting increased OIBA.
 
Recent Highlights
Global Presence
Brand Portfolio
Content & Innovation
 
 
 
 
 
Income Statement Notes
Gross Bookings / Revenue
Cost of Revenue
Operating Expenses (non-GAAP)
(Stock-based compensation expense has been excluded from all calculations and discussions below)
Operating expenses include $15 million of depreciation expense for the third quarter of 2008, and $11 million for the comparable prior year period. The increase primarily relates to higher technology and content depreciation expense related to capitalized software.
Selling and Marketing (non-GAAP)
 
General and Administrative (non-GAAP)
Technology and Content (non-GAAP)
Stock-Based Compensation Expense
Other, Net
 
Income Taxes
Foreign Exchange
 
Acquisitions
Adjusted Net Income & Adjusted EPS
Balance Sheet Notes
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash
Accounts Receivable
Prepaid Merchant Booking, Prepaid Expenses and Other Current Assets
 
Property and equipment, net
Long-Term Investments and Other Assets
Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net
Accounts Payable, Other
Deferred Merchant Bookings and Accounts Payable, Merchant
 
Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities
Ask Derivative Liability
Borrowings
Other Long-Term Liabilities
 
Minority Interest
Purchase Obligations and Contractual Commitments
Common Stock
Class B Common Stock
Warrants
 
Stock-Based Awards
Basic, Fully Diluted and Adjusted Diluted Shares
 
 
 
Notes & Definitions:
 Quantity of purchases reported as booked, net of cancellations. Packages purchased using our packages wizard, which by definition include a merchant hotel, are recorded as a single transaction.
Number of Transactions
 Total retail value of transactions booked for both agency and merchant transactions, recorded at the time of booking. Bookings include the total price due for travel, including taxes, fees and other charges, and are generally reduced for cancellations and refunds.
Gross Bookings
 Reflects results for travel products and services provided to customers in the United States, Canada, Mexico and Latin America, as well as 100% of results from TripAdvisor Media Network.
North America
 Reflects results for travel products and services provided through localized Expedia websites in Austria, Belgium, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom and localized versions of hotels.com in various European countries. Also includes Venere which was acquired in September 2008.
Europe
 Includes Egencia, Asia Pacific and unallocated corporate functions and expenses.
Other
 Revenue and OIBA before inter-company eliminations include Expedia, Inc. expenditures on TripAdvisor sites, recorded at market-comparable rates.
TripAdvisor Media Network
 Worldwide merchant hotel nights, net of cancellations. With the exception of Hotwire, which records room nights upon booking, nights are reported as stayed. This metric includes nights stayed on both a package and stand-alone basis.
Merchant Hotel Room Nights
Definitions of Non-GAAP Measures
Expedia, Inc. reports Operating Income Before Amortization, Adjusted Net Income, Adjusted EPS, Free Cash Flow and non-GAAP operating expense (non-GAAP selling and marketing, non-GAAP general and administrative and non-GAAP technology and content), all of which are supplemental measures to GAAP and are defined by the SEC as non-GAAP financial measures. These measures are among the primary metrics by which management evaluates the performance of the business, on which internal budgets are based and by which management is compensated. Management believes that investors should have access to the same set of tools that management uses to analyze our results. These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for or superior to GAAP. We endeavor to compensate for the limitation of the non-GAAP measures presented by also providing the most directly comparable GAAP measures and descriptions of the reconciling items and adjustments to derive the non-GAAP measures.
is defined as operating income plus: (1) stock-based compensation expense, (2) amortization of intangible assets and goodwill and/or intangible asset impairment, if applicable and (3) certain one-time items, if applicable. OIBA represents the combined operating results of Expedia, Inc.'s businesses, taking into account depreciation (including internal-use software and website development), which we believe is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the effects of other non-cash expenses that may not be indicative of our core business operations. Management believes this performance measure is useful to investors because it corresponds more closely to the cash operating income generated from our core operations by excluding significant non-cash operating expenses such as stock-based compensation, and because it provides greater insight into management decision making at Expedia, Inc. as OIBA is our primary internal metric for evaluating the performance of our businesses. OIBA has certain limitations in that it does not take into account the impact of certain expenses to Expedia, Inc.'s statements of income, including stock-based compensation, acquisition-related accounting and certain one-time items, if applicable. Due to the high variability and difficulty in predicting certain items that affect net income, such as tax rates, stock price and interest rates, Expedia, Inc. is unable to provide a reconciliation to net income on a forward-looking basis without unreasonable efforts.
Operating Income Before Amortization ("OIBA")
generally captures all items on the statements of income that have been, or ultimately will be, settled in cash and is defined as net income available to stockholders plus net of tax (1) stock-based compensation expense, (2) amortization of intangible assets, including as part of equity-method investments, and goodwill and/or intangible impairment, if applicable, (3) one-time items, (4) mark to market gains and losses on derivative liabilities, (5) currency gains or losses on U.S. dollar denominated cash equivalents held by eLong, (6) discontinued operations and (7) the minority interest impact of the aforementioned adjustment items. We believe Adjusted Net Income is useful to investors because it represents Expedia, Inc.'s combined results, taking into account depreciation, which management believes is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the impact of other non-cash expenses and items not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses.
Adjusted Net Income
 
is defined as Adjusted Net Income divided by weighted fully diluted shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS purposes. We include dilution from options and warrants per the treasury stock method and include all shares relating to RSUs in shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS. This differs from the GAAP method for including RSUs, which treats them on a treasury method basis. Shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS purposes are therefore higher than shares outstanding for GAAP EPS purposes. We believe Adjusted EPS is useful to investors because it represents, on a per share basis, Expedia's consolidated results, taking into account depreciation, which we believe is an ongoing cost of doing business, as well as other items which are not allocated to the operating businesses such as interest expense, taxes, foreign exchange gains or losses, and minority interest, but excluding the effects of non-cash expenses not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses. Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted EPS have similar limitations as OIBA. In addition, Adjusted Net Income does not include all items that affect our net income and net income per share for the period. Therefore, we think it is important to evaluate these measures along with our consolidated statements of income.
Adjusted EPS
is defined as net cash flow provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. Management believes Free Cash Flow is useful to investors because it represents the operating cash flow that our operating businesses generate, less capital expenditures but before taking into account other cash movements that are not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses, such as financing activities, foreign exchange or certain investing activities. Free Cash Flow has certain limitations in that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period, nor does it represent the residual cash flow for discretionary expenditures. Therefore, it is important to evaluate Free Cash Flow along with the consolidated statements of cash flows.
Free Cash Flow
exclude stock-based compensation related to expenses for stock options, restricted stock units and other equity compensation under FAS 123(R). Expedia, Inc. excludes stock-based compensation expenses from these measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses that we do not believe are necessarily reflective of our ongoing cash operating expenses and cash operating income. In addition, due to historical accounting charges and credits related to our spin-off from IAC, changes in forfeiture estimates and other events, stock-based compensation has been highly variable in some historical quarters, impairing year-on-year and quarter-to-quarter comparability. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types that companies can use when adopting FAS 123(R), management believes that providing non-GAAP financial measures that exclude stock-based compensation allows investors to make meaningful comparisons between our recurring core business operating results and those of other companies, as well as providing management with an important tool for financial operational decision making and for evaluating our own recurring core business operating results over different periods of time. There are certain limitations in using financial measures that do not take into account stock-based compensation, including the fact that stock-based compensation is a recurring expense and a valued part of employees' compensation. Therefore it is important to evaluate both our GAAP and non-GAAP measures. See the Note to the Consolidated Statements of Income for stock-based compensation by line item.
Non-GAAP cost of revenue, selling and marketing, general and administrative and technology and content expenses excluding stock-based compensation
Tabular Reconciliations for Non-GAAP Measures
Operating Income Before Amortization
 
Adjusted Net Income & Adjusted EPS
Free Cash Flow
Non-GAAP cost of revenue, selling and marketing, general and administrative and technology and content expenses excluding stock-based compensation
 
Conference Call
Expedia, Inc. will audiocast a conference call to discuss third quarter 2008 financial results and certain forward-looking information on Thursday, October 30, 2008 at 8:00 a.m. Pacific Time (PT). The audiocast will be open to the public and available via http://www.expediainc.com/ir. Expedia, Inc. expects to maintain access to the audiocast on the IR website for approximately three months subsequent to the initial broadcast.
Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. These forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations as of October 30, 2008 and assumptions which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. The use of words such as "intends" and "expects" among others, generally identify forward-looking statements. However, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements and may include statements relating to future revenues, expenses, margins, profitability, net income, earnings per share and other measures of results of operation and the prospects for future growth of Expedia, Inc.'s business.
Actual results and the timing and outcome of events may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, among others: continued or prolonged adverse economic conditions leading to decreased consumer and business spending; changes in Expedia, Inc.'s relationships and contractual agreements with travel suppliers or GDS partners; adverse changes in senior management; the rate of growth of online travel; our inability to recognize the benefits of our investment in technologies; changes in the competitive environment, the e-commerce industry and broadband access and our ability to respond to such changes; declines or disruptions in the travel industry (including those caused by, adverse weather, bankruptcies, health risks, war and/or terrorism); the rate of online migration in the various geographies and markets in which Expedia, Inc. operates, including Eastern Europe and Asia; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; risks related to our long term indebtedness, including the ability to access funds as and when needed; changing laws, rules and regulations and legal uncertainties relating to our business; Expedia, Inc.'s ability to expand successfully in international markets; possible charges resulting from, among other events, platform migration; failure to realize cost efficiencies; the successful completion of any future corporate transactions or acquisitions; and the integration of current and acquired businesses; and other risks detailed in Expedia, Inc.'s public filings with the SEC, including Expedia, Inc.'s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, and Form 10-Q for the quarters ended June 30, 2008 and September 30, 2008.
Except as required by law, Expedia, Inc. undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking or other statements included in this press release, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
About Expedia, Inc.
Expedia, Inc. is the world's leading online travel company, empowering business and leisure travelers with the tools and information they need to easily research, plan, book and experience travel. Expedia, Inc. also provides in-destination concierge service and activity desks for travelers. The Expedia, Inc. portfolio of brands includes: Expedia.com, hotels.com, Hotwire, Egencia (formerly Expedia Corporate Travel), TripAdvisor, Expedia Local Expert, Classic Vacations and eLong. Expedia, Inc.'s companies operate more than 60 global points of sale in more than 40 countries, with sites in North America, South America, Latin America, Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific. Expedia, Inc. is a component of the S&P 500 index. For more information, visit www.expediainc.com/(NASDAQ:EXPE).
Trademarks and logos are property of their respective owners.
 2008 Expedia, Inc. All rights reserved. CST: 2029030-40


