FILE:EXPE/EXPE-8K-20080207090125.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
          On February 7, 2008, Expedia, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Expedia"), issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter and year ended December 31, 2007. The full text of this press release, appearing in Exhibit 99.1 hereto, is incorporated herein by reference.
          Expedia makes reference to non-GAAP financial information in the press release. Information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures is contained in the attached press release.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

 
Exhibit 99.1
BELLEVUE, Wash.February 7, 2008Expedia, Inc. (NASDAQ: EXPE) today announced financial results for its fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2007.
"2007 was a very good year for Expedia, with acceleration in nearly every key financial metric," said Barry Diller, Expedia, Inc.'s Chairman and Senior Executive. "We ended the year on higher ground with a stabilized supplier outlook, expanded global reach, established media businesses and sharpened marketing prowess. At the same time, we continued to make strides in capital efficiency by leveraging our balance sheet to meaningfully reduce our share base with an eye toward further repurchases."
"Through significant investment, innovation and execution, Expedia delivered four consecutive quarters of top-line growth acceleration in 2007," said Dara Khosrowshahi, Expedia Inc.'s CEO and President. "While we're pleased by our return to OIBA growth in 2007 and mindful of potential challenges from near-term economic conditions, we will continue to invest in further growth opportunities in 2008 and beyond to drive long-term shareholder value."
Financial Summary & Operating Metrics (figures in $MM's, except per share amounts)
 
 
Discussion of Results  Fourth Quarter 2007
Gross Bookings & Revenue
Gross bookings increased 25% for the fourth quarter of 2007 compared with the fourth quarter of 2006. North America bookings increased 18%, Europe bookings increased 47% (35% excluding the net benefit from foreign exchange) and Other bookings (primarily Expedia Corporate Travel and our Asia Pacific operations) increased 36%.
Revenue increased 25% for the fourth quarter, primarily driven by increased worldwide merchant hotel revenue and advertising and media revenue. North America revenue increased 19%, Europe revenue increased 39% (29% excluding foreign exchange) and Other revenue increased 42%.
Worldwide merchant hotel revenue increased 23% for the fourth quarter due to an 18% increase in room nights stayed, including rooms delivered as a component of vacation packages, and a 4% increase in revenue per room night. Revenue per room night increased due to a 6% increase in worldwide average daily rates ("ADRs"), partially offset by a 61 basis point decline in hotel raw margin.
Worldwide air revenue increased 13% for the fourth quarter due to a 14% increase in air tickets sold, partially offset by a 2% decrease in revenue per air ticket. The decrease in revenue per air ticket primarily reflects reduced consumer air fees versus the prior year period.
Worldwide revenue from products and services other than merchant hotel and air (including advertising and media, car rentals, destination services, agency hotel and cruises), increased 42% for the fourth quarter due primarily to increased advertising and media revenues and car rental revenues.
Package revenue increased 20% compared with the prior year period primarily due to higher worldwide package bookings as well as increased revenue margin compared with the prior year period.
Revenue as a percentage of gross bookings ("revenue margin") was 14.47% for the fourth quarter, an increase of 6 basis points. North America revenue margin increased 20 basis points to 14.40%, Europe revenue margin decreased 89 basis points to 16.97%, and Other revenue margin increased 40 basis points to 9.62%. The fourth quarter increase in North America revenue margin was primarily due to an increased mix of advertising and media revenues as compared to fourth quarter 2006. Europe revenue margin decreased primarily due to lower revenue from more competitive hotel pricing, the impact of foreign exchange, and lower consumer air fees.
Profitability
Gross profit for the fourth quarter of 2007 was $519 million, an increase of 27% compared with the fourth quarter of 2006 primarily due to increased revenue and a 92 basis point improvement in gross margin to 77.99%. The gross margin increase was primarily due to an increased mix of advertising and media revenue and cost reductions from our various efficiency initiatives.
OIBA for the fourth quarter increased 13% to $165 million, driven primarily by higher revenue. OIBA as a percentage of revenue decreased 270 basis points to 24.83%, primarily reflecting higher growth in sales and marketing expenses excluding stock-based compensation as a percentage of revenue. Operating income increased 29% to $128 million primarily due to the same factors driving OIBA growth as well as lower intangible amortization and stock-based compensation expense.
Adjusted net income for the fourth quarter decreased $4 million compared to the prior year period as higher OIBA was offset by a net increase in foreign exchange losses and an increase in net interest expense. Net income decreased $2 million due to the same factors impacting adjusted net income as well as a higher effective tax rate. Fourth quarter adjusted EPS and diluted EPS were $0.31 and $0.22, respectively. These measures increased 11% and 10% due to lower net share counts resulting from share repurchase activity during 2007.
 
Discussion of Results  Full Year 2007
Gross Bookings & Revenue
Gross bookings increased 16% in 2007 compared with 2006. North America bookings increased 9%, Europe bookings increased 41% (32% excluding the net benefit from foreign exchange) and Other bookings increased 28%.
Revenue increased 19% for the year, primarily driven by increased worldwide merchant hotel revenue and advertising and media revenue. North America revenue increased 14%, Europe revenue increased 34% (26% excluding foreign exchange) and Other revenue increased 35%.
Worldwide merchant hotel revenue increased 19% in 2007 due to a 12% increase in room nights stayed, including rooms delivered as a component of vacation packages, and a 6% increase in revenue per room night. Revenue per room night increased due to a 6% increase in worldwide ADRs, partially offset by a 13 basis point decline in hotel raw margin.
Worldwide air revenue decreased 2% in 2007 due to a 12% decrease in revenue per air ticket, partially offset by a 12% increase in air tickets sold. The decrease in revenue per air ticket primarily reflects decreased compensation from air carriers and global distribution system ("GDS") providers, and to a lesser extent, reduced consumer air fees.
Worldwide revenue from products and services other than merchant hotel and air (including advertising and media, car rentals, destination services, agency hotel and cruises), increased 38% in 2007 due primarily to increased advertising and media revenues and car rental revenues.
Package revenue increased 7% compared with the prior year period primarily due to higher European package bookings compared with the prior year period.
Revenue margin was 13.34% in 2007, an increase of 30 basis points. North America revenue margin increased 53 basis points to 13.62%, Europe revenue margin decreased 69 basis points to 14.37%, and Other revenue margin increased 45 basis points to 8.80%. The increase in 2007 worldwide revenue margin was primarily due to an increased mix of advertising revenue, partially offset by lower air revenue per ticket. The increase in North America revenue margin was primarily due to an increased mix of advertising and media revenues. Europe revenue margin decreased primarily due to lower air commissions and consumer fees as well as lower revenue from more competitive hotel pricing.
Profitability
Gross profit for 2007 was $2.10 billion, an increase of 21% compared with 2006 primarily due to increased revenue and a 136 basis point improvement in gross margin to 78.90%. The gross margin increase was primarily due to an increased mix of advertising and media revenue and cost reductions from our various efficiency initiatives.
OIBA increased 12% to $669 million, driven primarily by higher revenue. OIBA as a percentage of revenue decreased 165 basis points to 25.12%, primarily reflecting higher growth in sales and marketing expenses excluding stock-based compensation as a percentage of revenue, partially offset by a higher gross margin. Operating income increased 51% to $529 million primarily due to the same factors driving OIBA growth and lower expenses related to intangible assets and an intangible asset impairment charge in 2006.
Adjusted net income for the year increased $1 million compared with 2006 due to higher OIBA, largely offset by net losses from foreign currency and increases in net interest expense. Net income increased $51 million due to the same factors impacting adjusted net income as well as lower amortization of intangible assets compared to 2006 and an impairment charge in the prior year. 2007 adjusted EPS and diluted EPS were $1.22 and $0.94, respectively. These measures increased 12% and 34% due to the same factors impacting adjusted net income and net income, as well as lower net share counts from share repurchase activity.
Cash Flows & Working Capital
Net cash provided by operating activities in 2007 was $712 million and free cash flow was $625 million. Both measures include $244 million of benefit from net changes in operating assets and liabilities primarily related to our merchant hotel business. Free cash flow in 2007 increased $101 million primarily due to greater benefit from net changes in operating assets and liabilities and higher OIBA.
 
Recent Highlights
     
Global Presence
     
Brand Portfolio
     
Content & Innovation
     
Partner Services Group ("PSG")
 
 
 
 
Income Statement Notes
Gross Bookings / Revenue
Cost of Revenue
Operating Expenses (non-GAAP)
(Stock-based compensation expense has been excluded from all calculations and discussions below)
Operating expenses include $12 million and $10 million of depreciation expense for the quarters ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, and $44 million and $39 million for full years 2007 and 2006.
     
Selling and Marketing (non-GAAP)
 
     
General and Administrative (non-GAAP)
     
Technology and Content (non-GAAP)
Stock-Based Compensation Expense
 
Other, Net
Income Taxes
Foreign Exchange
 
Acquisitions
Balance Sheet Notes
Cash, Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash
Accounts and Notes Receivable
Prepaid Merchant Booking, Prepaid Expenses and Other Current Assets
Income Taxes Receivable and Payable
 
Long-Term Investments and Other Assets
Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net
Accounts Payable, Other
Deferred Merchant Bookings and Accounts Payable, Merchant
Accrued Expenses
 
Ask Derivative Liability
Borrowings
Other Long-Term Liabilities
Minority Interest
Purchase Obligations and Contractual Commitments
 
Common Stock
Class B Common Stock
Warrants
Shelf Registration
Stock-Based Awards
 
Basic, Fully Diluted and Adjusted Diluted Shares
 
 
Notes & Definitions:
 Quantity of purchases reported as booked, net of cancellations. Packages purchased using our packages wizard, which by definition include a merchant hotel, are recorded as a single transaction.
Number of Transactions
 Total retail value of transactions booked for both agency and merchant transactions, recorded at the time of booking. Bookings include the total price due for travel, including taxes, fees and other charges, and are generally reduced for cancellations and refunds.
Gross Bookings
 Reflects results for travel products and services provided to customers in the United States, Canada, Mexico and Latin America. Includes 100% of TripAdvisor as it is managed in North America.
North America
 Reflects results for travel products and services provided through localized Expedia websites in Austria, Denmark, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, the Netherlands, Norway, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom and localized versions of Hotels.com in various European countries.
Europe
 Includes Expedia Corporate Travel, Asia Pacific and unallocated corporate functions and expenses.
Other
 Worldwide merchant hotel nights, net of cancellations. With the exception of Hotwire, which records room nights upon booking, nights are reported as stayed. This metric includes nights stayed on both a package and stand-alone basis.
Merchant Hotel Room Nights
Definitions of Non-GAAP Measures
Expedia, Inc. reports Operating Income Before Amortization, Adjusted Net Income, Adjusted EPS, Free Cash Flow and non-GAAP operating expense (non-GAAP selling and marketing, non-GAAP general and administrative and non-GAAP technology and content), all of which are supplemental measures to GAAP and are defined by the SEC as non-GAAP financial measures. These measures are among the primary metrics by which management evaluates the performance of the business, on which internal budgets are based and by which management is compensated. Management believes that investors should have access to the same set of tools that management uses to analyze our results. These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for or superior to GAAP. We endeavor to compensate for the limitation of the non-GAAP measures presented by also providing the most directly comparable GAAP measures and descriptions of the reconciling items and adjustments to derive the non-GAAP measures.
is defined as operating income plus: (1) amortization of non-cash distribution and marketing expense, (2) stock-based compensation expense, (3) amortization of intangible assets and goodwill and/or intangible asset impairment, if applicable and (4) certain one-time items, if applicable. OIBA represents the combined operating results of Expedia, Inc.'s businesses, taking into account depreciation, which we believe is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the effects of other non-cash expenses that may not be indicative of our core business operations. Management believes this measure is useful to investors because it corresponds more closely to the cash operating income generated from our core operations by excluding significant non-cash operating expenses such as stock-based compensation, and because it provides greater insight into management decision making at Expedia, Inc. as OIBA is our primary internal metric for evaluating the performance of our businesses. OIBA has certain limitations in that it does not take into account the impact of certain expenses to Expedia, Inc.'s statements of income, including stock-based compensation, non-cash payments to partners, acquisition-related accounting and certain one-time items, if applicable. Due to the high variability and difficulty in predicting certain items that affect net income, such as tax rates, stock price and interest rates, Expedia, Inc. is unable to provide a reconciliation to net income on a forward-looking basis without unreasonable efforts.
Operating Income Before Amortization ("OIBA")
generally captures all items on the statements of income that have been, or ultimately will be, settled in cash and is defined as net income available to stockholders plus net of tax (1) amortization of non-cash distribution and marketing expense, (2) stock-based compensation expense, (3) amortization of intangible assets, including as part of equity-method investments, and goodwill and/or intangible impairment, if applicable, (4) one-time items, (5) mark to market gains and losses on derivative liabilities, (6) discontinued operations and (7) the minority interest impact of the aforementioned adjustment items. We believe Adjusted Net Income is useful to investors because it represents Expedia, Inc.'s combined results, taking into account depreciation, which management believes is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the impact of other non-cash expenses and items not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses.
Adjusted Net Income
 
is defined as Adjusted Net Income divided by weighted fully diluted shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS purposes. We include dilution from options and warrants per the treasury stock method and include all shares relating to RSUs in shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS. This differs from the GAAP method for including RSUs, which treats them on a treasury method basis. Shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS purposes are therefore higher than shares outstanding for GAAP EPS purposes. We believe Adjusted EPS is useful to investors because it represents, on a per share basis, Expedia's consolidated results, taking into account depreciation, which we believe is an ongoing cost of doing business, as well as other items which are not allocated to the operating businesses such as interest expense, taxes, foreign exchange gains or losses, and minority interest, but excluding the effects of non-cash expenses not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses. Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted EPS have similar limitations as OIBA. In addition, Adjusted Net Income does not include all items that affect our net income and net income per share for the period. Therefore, we think it is important to evaluate these measures along with our consolidated statements of income.
Adjusted EPS
is defined as net cash flow provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. Management believes Free Cash Flow is useful to investors because it represents the operating cash flow that our operating businesses generate, less capital expenditures but before taking into account other cash movements that are not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses, such as financing activities, foreign exchange or certain investing activities. Free Cash Flow has certain limitations in that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period, nor does it represent the residual cash flow for discretionary expenditures. Therefore, it is important to evaluate Free Cash Flow along with the consolidated statements of cash flows.
Free Cash Flow
exclude stock-based compensation related to expenses for stock options, restricted stock units and other equity compensation under FAS 123(R). Expedia, Inc. excludes stock-based compensation expenses from these measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses that we do not believe are necessarily reflective of our ongoing cash operating expenses and cash operating income. In addition, due to historical accounting charges and credits related to our spin-off from IAC, changes in forfeiture estimates and other events, stock-based compensation has been highly variable in some historical quarters, impairing year-on-year and quarter-to-quarter comparability. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types that companies can use when adopting FAS 123(R), management believes that providing non-GAAP financial measures that exclude stock-based compensation allows investors to make meaningful comparisons between our recurring core business operating results and those of other companies, as well as providing management with an important tool for financial operational decision making and for evaluating our own recurring core business operating results over different periods of time. There are certain limitations in using financial measures that do not take into account stock-based compensation, including the fact that stock-based compensation is a recurring expense and a valued part of employees' compensation. Therefore it is important to evaluate both our GAAP and non-GAAP measures. See the Note to the Consolidated Statements of Income for stock-based compensation by line item.
Non-GAAP cost of revenue, selling and marketing, general and administrative and technology and content expenses excluding stock-based compensation
 
Tabular Reconciliations for Non-GAAP Measures
Operating Income Before Amortization
Adjusted Net Income & Adjusted EPS
Free Cash Flow
 
Non-GAAP cost of revenue, selling and marketing, general and administrative and technology and content expenses excluding stock-based compensation
Conference Call
Expedia, Inc. will audiocast a conference call to discuss fourth quarter and full year 2007 financial results and certain forward-looking information on Thursday, February 7, 2008 at 8:00 a.m. Pacific Time (PT). The audiocast will be open to the public and available via http://www.expediainc.com/ir. Expedia, Inc. expects to maintain access to the audiocast on the IR website for approximately three months subsequent to the initial broadcast.
Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. These forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations as of February 7, 2008 and assumptions which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. The use of words such as "intends" and "expects" among others, generally identify forward-looking statements. However, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements and may include statements relating to future revenues, expenses, margins, profitability, net income, earnings per share and other measures of results of operation and the prospects for future growth of Expedia, Inc.'s business.
Actual results and the timing and outcome of events may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, among others: changes in Expedia, Inc.'s relationships and contractual agreements with travel suppliers or GDS partners; adverse changes in senior management; the rate of growth of online travel; our inability to recognize the benefits of our investment in technologies; changes in the competitive environment, the e-commerce industry and broadband access and our ability to respond to such changes; declines or disruptions in the travel industry (including those caused by decreased consumer and business spending, adverse weather, bankruptcies, health risks, war, terrorism and/or general economic downturns); the rate of online migration in the various geographies and markets in which Expedia, Inc. operates, including Eastern Europe and Asia; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; changing laws, rules and regulations and legal uncertainties relating to our business; Expedia, Inc.'s ability to expand successfully in international markets; possible charges resulting from, among other events, platform migration; failure to realize cost efficiencies; the successful completion of any future corporate transactions or acquisitions; and the integration of current and acquired businesses; and other risks detailed in Expedia, Inc.'s public filings with the SEC, including Expedia, Inc.'s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006.
 
Except as required by law, Expedia, Inc. undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking or other statements in this press release, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
About Expedia, Inc.
Expedia, Inc. is the world's leading online travel company, empowering business and leisure travelers with the tools and information they need to easily research, plan, book and experience travel. Expedia, Inc. also provides wholesale travel to offline retail travel agents and in-destination concierge service and activity desks for travelers. The Expedia, Inc. portfolio of brands includes: Expedia.com, hotels.com, Hotwire, Expedia Corporate Travel, TripAdvisor, Expedia Local Expert, Classic Vacations and eLong. Expedia, Inc.'s companies operate more than 50 global points of sale with sites in North America, South America, Latin America, Europe, Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific. Expedia, Inc. is a component of the S&P 500 index. For more information, visit http://www.expediainc.com/ (NASDAQ: EXPE).
Expedia, Expedia.com, Expedia Corporate Travel and Expedia Local Expert are either registered trademarks or trademarks of Expedia, Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. Classic Vacations is either a trademark or registered trademark of Classic Vacations, LLC in the U.S. and/or other countries. hotels.com is either a trademark or registered trademark of hotels.com, L.P., a subsidiary of hotels.com in the U.S. and/or other countries. Hotwire is either a trademark or registered trademark of Hotwire, Inc. in the U.S. and/or other countries. TripAdvisor is either a trademark or registered trademark of TripAdvisor, LLC in the U.S. and/or other countries. Other logos or product and company names mentioned herein may be the property of their respective owners.
Contacts
 2008 Expedia, Inc. All rights reserved. CST: 2029030-40


