FILE:EXPE/EXPE-8K-20090430090129.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On April 30, 2009, Expedia, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Expedia"), issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2009. The full text of this press release, appearing in Exhibit 99.1 hereto, is incorporated herein by reference.
     Expedia makes reference to non-GAAP financial information in the press release. Information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures is contained in the attached press release.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents

Exhibit 99.1
BELLEVUE, Wash. April 30, 2009Expedia, Inc. (NASDAQ: EXPE) today announced financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2009.
"Despite the economic environment we all must cope with these days, Expedia is engaged in more forward looking initiatives than ever," said Barry Diller, Expedia, Inc.'s Chairman and Senior Executive. "The test for us will be not in maximizing profitability at the cost of improving our services, but instead in the ground we gain competitively over the next years, both in extending our leadership and making true gains in the customer experience. This will be what differentiates us from others and is the key mission of the company."
"Our results for the first quarter, especially the improved momentum in transaction and hotel room night volumes, prove that Expedia can successfully drive unit growth despite an undeniably difficult environment," said Dara Khosrowshahi, Expedia Inc.'s CEO and President. "We effectively managed our cost base, reducing marketing spend significantly even while taking unit share. Our global realignment of resources is well in motion, which we believe will only improve our operational effectiveness and efficiency over time."
Financial Summary & Operating Metrics (figures in $MM's, except per share amounts)
 
 
Discussion of Results
Gross Bookings & Revenue
Gross bookings decreased 11% (down 7% excluding the estimated impact from foreign exchange) for the first quarter of 2009 compared with the first quarter of 2008, driven by a decrease in the leisure segment. Domestic bookings decreased 11% and international bookings decreased 13% (down 1% excluding the estimated impact from foreign exchange).
Revenue decreased 8% (down 3% excluding the estimated impact from foreign exchange) for the first quarter, primarily driven by lower package, hotel and air revenues in our leisure segment, partially offset by increases in advertising and media and car revenues. Domestic revenue decreased 5% while international revenue decreased 14% (flat year over year excluding the estimated impact from foreign exchange).
Worldwide hotel revenue decreased 10% for the first quarter due to a 20% decrease in revenue per room night, partially offset by a 13% increase in room nights stayed, including rooms delivered as a component of packages and nights booked through Venere. Revenue per room night decreased primarily due to an 18% decrease in worldwide average daily rates ("ADRs").
TM
Worldwide air revenue decreased 17% for the first quarter, primarily due to a 14% decrease in revenue per ticket, driven by lower commissions and overrides (in part due to timing of receipts), a lower mix of merchant air tickets, the negative impact of foreign exchange and lower consumer booking fees. Ticket volumes declined 4% reflecting lower passenger volumes due to carrier capacity cuts and softening traveler demand, partially offset by ticket volume share gains driven in part by our booking fee promotion beginning in March.
Worldwide revenue from products and services other than hotel and air (primarily revenue from advertising and media, car rentals and destination services) increased 5% for the first quarter due primarily to increased advertising and media revenue and increased car revenue.
Advertising and media revenue, including revenue from our TripAdvisor segment, increased 15% for the first quarter, accounting for over 11% of worldwide revenue. Package revenue decreased 18% compared with the prior year period primarily due to lower ADRs.
Revenue as a percentage of gross bookings ("revenue margin") was 12.17% for the first quarter, an increase of 51 basis points. Domestic revenue margin increased 81 basis points to 12.51% while international revenue margin decreased 13 basis points to 11.42%. The increase in worldwide and domestic revenue margins was primarily due to an increased mix of advertising and media revenues as compared to first quarter 2008. The decline in international revenue margin was primarily due to lower hotel margins, in part as a result of the negative impact of foreign exchange.
Profitability
Gross profit for the first quarter of 2009 was $492 million, a decrease of 8% compared with the first quarter of 2008 primarily due to decreased revenue. OIBA for the first quarter increased 3% to $130 million and increased 212 basis points as a percentage of revenue to 20.4%, driven primarily by a decrease in sales and marketing expenses at a faster rate than the decrease in revenue. Operating income increased 3% for the same reasons OIBA increased, in addition to lower amortization of intangible assets, partially offset by a $9 million restructuring charge taken in the first quarter of 2009.
Adjusted net income for the first quarter decreased $8 million compared to the prior year period primarily due to a decrease in interest income and an increase in interest expense partially offset by higher OIBA. Net income decreased primarily due to the same factors impacting adjusted net income as well as the restructuring charge taken in the first quarter of 2009 partially offset by lower amortization of intangible assets. First quarter adjusted EPS and diluted EPS were $0.21 and $0.14, respectively. Adjusted EPS decreased 13% and diluted EPS decreased 18%, primarily as a result of lower adjusted income and net income, partially offset by lower net share counts.
Cash Flows & Working Capital
For the three months ended March 31, 2009, net cash provided by operating activities was $502 million and free cash flow was $479 million. Both measures include $398 million from net changes in operating assets and liabilities, primarily driven by a working capital benefit from our merchant hotel business. Free cash flow for the first quarter decreased $52 million due primarily to a lower benefit from our merchant businesses and an increase in cash paid for income taxes and interest, partially offset by a decrease in cash used by other working capital accounts and lower capital expenditures.
 
Recent Highlights
     
Global Presence
     
Brand Portfolio
     
Content & Innovation
     
Partner Services Group ("PSG")
 
 
 
 
 
Income Statement Notes
Gross Bookings / Revenue
Expense Reclassifications
Cost of Revenue
 
Operating Expenses (non-GAAP)
(Stock-based compensation expense has been excluded from all calculations and discussions below)
Stock-Based Compensation Expense
 
Restructuring Charges
Interest Income and Interest Expense
Other, Net
Income Taxes
Foreign Exchange
 
Acquisitions
Balance Sheet Notes
Cash, Cash Equivalents, Restricted Cash and Short-Term Investments
 
Accounts Receivable
Prepaid Merchant Booking, Prepaid Expenses and Other Current Assets
Property and Equipment, net
Long-Term Investments and Other Assets
Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net
Deferred Merchant Bookings and Accounts Payable, Merchant
 
Accounts Payable, Other
Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities
Ask Derivative Liability
Borrowings
Other Long-Term Liabilities
Noncontrolling Interest
 
Purchase Obligations and Contractual Commitments
Common Stock
Class B Common Stock
Warrants
Stock-Based Awards
Basic, Fully Diluted and Adjusted Diluted Shares
 
 
 
Notes & Definitions:
 Quantity of purchases reported as booked, net of cancellations. Packages purchased using our packages wizard, which by definition include a merchant hotel, are recorded as a single transaction.
Number of Transactions
 Total retail value of transactions booked for both agency and merchant transactions, recorded at the time of booking. Bookings include the total price due for travel, including taxes, fees and other charges, and are generally reduced for cancellations and refunds.
Gross Bookings
 Reflects results for travel products and services provided to customers of our leisure travel sites including Expedia branded sites, hotels.com branded sites, Hotwire, the Expedia Affiliate Network and other leisure brands.
Leisure
 Reflects TripAdvisor worldwide sites.
TripAdvisor Media Network ("TripAdvisor")
 Reflects worldwide results for our managed travel business.
Egencia
 Includes intercompany eliminations as well as unallocated corporate expenses.
Corporate
 Reported on a stayed basis, and includes both merchant and agency model hotel stays.
Worldwide Hotel
Definitions of Non-GAAP Measures
Expedia, Inc. reports Operating Income Before Amortization, Adjusted Net Income, Adjusted EPS, Free Cash Flow and non-GAAP operating expense (non-GAAP selling and marketing, non-GAAP technology and content and non-GAAP general and administrative), all of which are supplemental measures to GAAP and are defined by the SEC as non-GAAP financial measures. These measures are among the primary metrics by which management evaluates the performance of the business, on which internal budgets are based and by which management is compensated. Management believes that investors should have access to the same set of tools that management uses to analyze our results. These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for or superior to GAAP. We endeavor to compensate for the limitation of the non-GAAP measures presented by also providing the most directly comparable GAAP measures and descriptions of the reconciling items and adjustments to derive the non-GAAP measures. The definitions of Operating Income Before Amortization and Adjusted Net Income were revised in the first quarter of 2009 to better reflect our current operations and take into consideration the impact of new accounting literature.
is defined as operating income plus: (1) stock-based compensation expense, including compensation expense related to certain subsidiary equity plans; (2) acquisition-related impacts, including (i) amortization of intangible assets and goodwill and intangible asset impairment, (ii) gains (losses) recognized on changes in the value of contingent consideration arrangements, and (iii) gains (losses) recognized on non-controlling investment basis adjustments when we acquire controlling interests; (3) certain infrequently occurring items, including restructuring; (4) charges incurred for monies that may be required to be paid in advance of litigation in certain occupancy tax proceedings; (5) gains (losses) realized on revenue hedging activities that are included in other, net. OIBA is the primary operating metric used by which management evaluates the performance of our business, on which internal budgets are based, and by which management is compensated. Management believes that investors should have access to the same set of tools that management uses to analyze our results. This non-GAAP measure should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measures. We endeavor to compensate for the limitation of the non-GAAP measure presented by also providing the comparable GAAP measure, GAAP financial statements, and descriptions of the reconciling items and adjustments, to derive the non-GAAP measure. We present a reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to GAAP below. OIBA represents the combined operating results of Expedia, Inc.'s businesses, taking into account depreciation of property and equipment (including internal-use software and website development), which we believe is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the effects of non-cash or other expenses that may not be indicative of our core business operations. We believe this performance measure is useful to investors because it provides greater insight into management decision making at Expedia, as OIBA is our primary internal metric for evaluating the performance of our business, and it corresponds more closely to the cash operating income generated from our core operations by excluding significant non-cash operating expenses, such as stock-based compensation. OIBA has certain limitations in that it does not take into account the impact of certain expenses to our consolidated statements of operations, including stock-based compensation, acquisition-related accounting and certain other expenses, if applicable. Due to the high variability and difficulty in predicting certain items that affect net income / (loss), such as tax rates, stock price and interest rates, Expedia, Inc. is unable to provide a reconciliation to net income / (loss) on a forward-looking basis without unreasonable efforts.
Operating Income Before Amortization ("OIBA")
generally captures all items on the statements of operations that occur in normal course operations and have been, or ultimately will be, settled in cash and is defined as net income/(loss) attributable to Expedia, Inc. plus net of
Adjusted Net Income
 
tax: (1) stock-based compensation expense, including compensation expense related to certain subsidiary equity plans; (2) acquisition-related impacts, including (i) amortization of intangible assets, including as part of equity-method investments, and goodwill and intangible asset impairment, (ii) gains (losses) recognized on changes in the value of contingent consideration arrangements, and (iii) gains (losses) recognized on noncontrolling investment basis adjustments when we acquire controlling interests; (3) mark to market gains and losses on derivative instruments assumed at Spin-off; (4) currency gains or losses on U.S. dollar denominated cash or short-term investments held by eLong; (5) certain other infrequently occurring items, including restructuring (6) charges incurred for monies that may be required to be paid in advance of litigation in certain occupancy tax proceedings; (7) discontinued operations; and (8) the noncontrolling interest impact of the aforementioned adjustment items. We believe Adjusted Net Income is useful to investors because it represents Expedia, Inc.'s combined results, taking into account depreciation, which management believes is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the impact of other non-cash expenses, infrequently occurring items and items not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses.
is defined as Adjusted Net Income divided by weighted fully diluted shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS purposes. We include dilution from options and warrants per the treasury stock method and include all shares relating to RSUs in shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS. This differs from the GAAP method for including RSUs, which treats them on a treasury method basis. Shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS purposes are therefore higher than shares outstanding for GAAP EPS purposes. We believe Adjusted EPS is useful to investors because it represents, on a per share basis, Expedia's consolidated results, taking into account depreciation, which we believe is an ongoing cost of doing business, as well as other items which are not allocated to the operating businesses such as interest expense, taxes, foreign exchange gains or losses, and minority interest, but excluding the effects of non-cash expenses not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses. Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted EPS have similar limitations as OIBA. In addition, Adjusted Net Income does not include all items that affect our net income / (loss) and net income / (loss) per share for the period. Therefore, we think it is important to evaluate these measures along with our consolidated statements of operations.
Adjusted EPS
is defined as net cash flow provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. Management believes Free Cash Flow is useful to investors because it represents the operating cash flow that our operating businesses generate, less capital expenditures but before taking into account other cash movements that are not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses, such as financing activities, foreign exchange or certain investing activities. Free Cash Flow has certain limitations in that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period, nor does it represent the residual cash flow for discretionary expenditures. Therefore, it is important to evaluate Free Cash Flow along with the consolidated statements of cash flows.
Free Cash Flow
exclude stock-based compensation related to expenses for stock options, restricted stock units and other equity compensation under FAS 123(R). Expedia, Inc. excludes stock-based compensation expenses from these measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses that we do not believe are necessarily reflective of our ongoing cash operating expenses and cash operating income. In addition, due to historical accounting charges and credits related to our spin-off from IAC, changes in forfeiture estimates and other events, stock-based compensation has been highly variable in some historical quarters, impairing year-on-year and quarter-to-quarter comparability. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types that companies can use when adopting FAS 123(R), management believes that providing non-GAAP financial measures that exclude stock-based compensation allows investors to make meaningful comparisons between our recurring core business operating results and those of other companies, as well as providing management with an important tool for financial operational decision making and for evaluating our own recurring core business operating results over different periods of time. There are certain limitations in using financial measures that do not take into account stock-based compensation, including the fact that stock-based compensation is a recurring expense and a valued part of employees' compensation. Therefore it is important to evaluate both our GAAP and non-GAAP measures. See the Note to the Consolidated Statements of Operations for stock-based compensation by line item.
Non-GAAP cost of revenue, selling and marketing, technology and content and general and administrative expenses excluding stock-based compensation
 
Tabular Reconciliations for Non-GAAP Measures
Operating Income Before Amortization
Adjusted Net Income & Adjusted EPS
Free Cash Flow
 
Non-GAAP cost of revenue, selling and marketing, general and administrative and technology and content expenses excluding stock-based compensation
Conference Call
Expedia, Inc. will audiocast a conference call to discuss first quarter 2009 financial results and certain forward-looking information on Thursday, April 30, 2009 at 8:00 a.m. Pacific Time (PT). The audiocast will be open to the public and available via http://www.expediainc.com/ir. Expedia, Inc. expects to maintain access to the audiocast on the IR website for approximately three months subsequent to the initial broadcast.
Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. These forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations as of April 30, 2009 and assumptions which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. The use of words such as "intends" and "expects" among others, generally identify forward-looking statements. However, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements and may include statements relating to future revenues, expenses, margins, profitability, net income / (loss), earnings per share and other measures of results of operation and the prospects for future growth of Expedia, Inc.'s business.
Actual results and the timing and outcome of events may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, among others: continued or prolonged adverse economic conditions leading to decreased consumer and business spending; changes in Expedia, Inc.'s relationships and contractual agreements with travel suppliers or GDS partners; adverse changes in senior management; the rate of growth of online travel; our inability to recognize the benefits of our investment in technologies; changes in the competitive environment, the e-commerce industry and broadband access and our ability to respond to such changes; declines or disruptions in the travel industry (including those caused by increased adverse weather, bankruptcies, health risks, war and/or terrorism); the rate of online migration in the various geographies and markets in which Expedia, Inc. operates, including Eastern Europe and Asia; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; risks related to our long term indebtedness, including the ability to access funds as and when needed; changing laws, rules and regulations and legal uncertainties relating to our business; changes in search engine algorithms and dynamics; risks relating to a failure to perform of third parties to our financial and/or service agreements; the use of fraudulent credit cards on Expedia, Inc.'s websites; Expedia, Inc.'s ability to expand successfully in international markets; possible charges resulting from, among other events, platform migration; failure to realize cost efficiencies, including from any restructuring activities; the successful completion of any future corporate transactions or acquisitions; and the integration of current and acquired businesses; and other risks detailed in Expedia, Inc.'s public filings with the SEC, including Expedia, Inc.'s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and subsequent Forms 10-Q.
 
Except as required by law, Expedia, Inc. undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking or other statements in this press release, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
About Expedia, Inc.
Expedia, Inc. is the world's leading online travel company. With more people booking travel online in Expedia's global marketplace than anywhere else, the company delivers consumers value in leisure and business travel, drives demand for travel suppliers, and provides advertisers opportunities to reach in-market travel consumers. The Expedia, Inc. portfolio of brands includes: Expedia.com, hotels.com, Hotwire, Egencia (formerly Expedia Corporate Travel), TripAdvisor, Expedia Local Expert, Classic Vacations and eLong. Expedia, Inc.'s companies operate more than 70 global points of sale in more than 40 countries. Expedia also powers travel bookings for some of the world's leading airlines and hotels, top consumer brands, high traffic websites, and thousands of active affiliates. For more information, visit http://www.expediainc.com/.
Trademarks and logos are property of their respective owners. 2009 Expedia, Inc. All rights reserved.
Contacts


