FILE:EXPE/EXPE-8K-20090515163035.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
          On May 13, 2009, Expedia, Inc. (the "") entered into an Amended and Restated Employment Agreement with Michael B. Adler, the Company's Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (the ""). The Adler Employment Agreement is effective as of May 15, 2009 and has a term of three years.
Company
Adler Employment Agreement
          During the term, Mr. Adler will be entitled to receive an annual base salary. Mr. Adler's current base salary is $375,000, which will increase to not less than $450,000 on January 1, 2010. Mr. Adler will also be entitled to receive annual discretionary bonuses, with a target bonus of 75% of his annual base salary.
Compensation.
          Upon a termination of Mr. Adler's employment by the Company without Cause (other than by reason of his death or Disability) or by Mr. Adler for Good Reason, subject to Mr. Adler's execution and non-revocation of a release and compliance with the restrictive covenants described below, then:
Severance.
          Mr. Adler will be restricted from competing with the Company and from soliciting Company employees and business partners during the longer of the twenty-four month period following his termination of employment for any reason and the term of the Adler Employment Agreement. In addition, Mr. Adler agreed not to use or disclose any confidential information of the Company or its affiliates.
Restrictive Covenants.
          Unless otherwise specified, capitalized terms used above without definition have the meanings set forth in the Adler Employment Agreement.
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


