FILE:EXPE/EXPE-8K-20090730090116.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition
     On July 30, 2009, Expedia, Inc., a Delaware corporation ("Expedia"), issued a press release announcing its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2009. The full text of this press release, appearing in Exhibit 99.1 hereto, is incorporated herein by reference.
     Expedia makes reference to non-GAAP financial information in the press release. Information regarding these non-GAAP financial measures is contained in the attached press release.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
BELLEVUE, Wash. July 30, 2009Expedia, Inc. (NASDAQ: EXPE) today announced financial results for its second quarter ended June 30, 2009.
"Expedia is consistently executing across all of its business lines," said Barry Diller, Expedia Inc.'s Chairman and Senior Executive. "Notwithstanding the broader issues of the world economy, Expedia is proving it can manage in any environment  a testament to its business model and superior management."
"To deliver 26% worldwide room night and continued OIBA growth in this environment speaks volumes about the abilities and execution of the global Expedia team," said Dara Khosrowshahi, Expedia Inc.'s CEO and President. "Significant improvements in our customer value proposition, marketing efficiencies and improved cost control are just a few of the many accomplishments driving our businesses forward. There is much environmental uncertainty and a lot of hard work left to do, but we are well on our way."
Financial Summary & Operating Metrics (figures in $MM's, except per share amounts)
 
 
Discussion of Results
Gross Bookings & Revenue
Gross bookings decreased 5% (down 1% excluding the estimated impact from foreign exchange) for the second quarter of 2009 compared with the second quarter of 2008, driven primarily by lower prices for hotel rooms and airline tickets, partially offset by an increase in transactions. Domestic bookings decreased 4% and international bookings decreased 8% (up 4% excluding foreign exchange).
Revenue decreased 3% (up 1% excluding foreign exchange) for the second quarter, primarily driven by lower domestic air revenue. Domestic revenue decreased 6% while international revenue increased 3% (up 14% excluding foreign exchange).
Worldwide hotel revenue decreased 1% for the second quarter primarily due to a 19% decrease in average daily rates ("ADRs"), partially offset by a 26% increase in room nights stayed, including rooms delivered as a component of packages and nights booked through Venere (which we acquired in the third quarter of 2008).
TM
Worldwide air revenue decreased 20% for the second quarter, primarily due to a 29% decrease in revenue per ticket, partially offset by a 13% increase in ticket volume. Expedia.com eliminated consumer booking fees on air tickets beginning in March of 2009, which primarily drove the decline in revenue per ticket and the lift in ticket volume.
Advertising and media revenue, including net revenue from our TripAdvisor segment, increased 5% for the second quarter, accounting for 10% of worldwide revenue.
Worldwide revenue from other products and services (primarily revenue from car rentals and destination services) decreased 2% for the second quarter.
Revenue as a percentage of gross bookings ("revenue margin") was 13.69% for the second quarter, an increase of 29 basis points compared to the second quarter of 2008. Domestic revenue margin decreased 31 basis points to 12.67% while international revenue margin increased 168 basis points to 15.98%. The increase in the worldwide revenue margin was primarily due to a reduction in the mix of lower margin air product and an increased mix of advertising and media revenue. The decrease in the domestic revenue margin was primarily due to a reduction in hotel service fees and the elimination of air booking fees, partially offset by an increased mix of advertising revenue. The increase in the international revenue margin was driven primarily by higher air overrides (in part due to timing of receipts), a reduction in the mix of air product and a benefit related to the changes in foreign exchange rates between the time of hotel bookings and the associated stays.
Profitability
OIBA for the second quarter increased 4% to $212 million and increased 193 basis points as a percentage of revenue to 27.6%, driven primarily by decreases in selling and marketing expense and cost of revenue at faster rates than the decrease in revenue, offset partially by growth in technology and content and general and administrative expenses. Operating income decreased 33%, driven primarily by $74 million of occupancy tax assessments and legal reserves in the second quarter of 2009.
Adjusted net income for the second quarter decreased $7 million compared to the prior year period primarily due to an increase in foreign exchange losses and an increase in net interest expense, partially offset by higher OIBA. Net income decreased $55 million compared to the prior year period primarily due to the decrease in operating income, increased net interest expense and higher foreign exchange losses. Second quarter adjusted EPS and diluted EPS were $0.38 and $0.14, respectively. Adjusted EPS decreased 5% and diluted EPS decreased 58% primarily as a result of lower adjusted net income and net income.
Cash Flows & Working Capital
For the six months ended June 30, 2009, net cash provided by operating activities was $845 million and free cash flow was $802 million. Both measures include $684 million from net changes in operating assets and liabilities, primarily driven by a working capital benefit from our merchant hotel business. Free cash flow increased $2 million compared to the first six months of the prior year primarily due to an increase in OIBA excluding depreciation, higher total cash provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities and lower capital expenditures, partially offset by an increase in cash paid for income taxes and interest.
 
Recent Highlights
     
Global Presence
     
Brand Portfolio
     
Content & Innovation
     
Supply Portfolio
 
 
 
 
Income Statement Notes
Gross Bookings / Revenue
Expense Reclassifications
Costs and Expenses (non-GAAP) (Stock-based compensation expense has been excluded from all calculations and discussions below)
Cost of Revenue (non-GAAP)
 
Selling and Marketing (non-GAAP)
Technology and Content (non-GAAP)
General and Administrative (non-GAAP)
Stock-Based Compensation Expense
Occupancy Tax Assessments and Legal Reserves
 
Restructuring Charges
Interest Income and Interest Expense
Other, Net
Income Taxes
Foreign Exchange
 
Acquisitions
Balance Sheet Notes
Cash, Cash Equivalents, Restricted Cash and Short-Term Investments
Accounts Receivable
 
Prepaid Merchant Booking, Prepaid Expenses and Other Current Assets
Property and Equipment, net
Long-Term Investments and Other Assets
Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net
Deferred Merchant Bookings and Accounts Payable, Merchant
Accounts Payable, Other
 
Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities
Ask Derivative Liability
Borrowings
Other Long-Term Liabilities
Noncontrolling Interest
Purchase Obligations and Contractual Commitments
Common Stock
 
Class B Common Stock
Warrants
Stock-Based Awards
Basic, Fully Diluted and Adjusted Diluted Shares
 
 
 
Notes & Definitions:
 Quantity of purchases reported as booked, net of cancellations. Packages purchased using our packages wizard, which by definition include a merchant hotel, are recorded as a single transaction.
Number of Transactions
 Total retail value of transactions booked for both agency and merchant transactions, recorded at the time of booking. Bookings include the total price due for travel, including taxes, fees and other charges, and are generally reduced for cancellations and refunds.
Gross Bookings
 Reflects results for travel products and services provided to customers of our leisure travel sites including Expedia branded sites, hotels.com branded sites, Hotwire, the Expedia Affiliate Network and other leisure brands.
Leisure
 Reflects TripAdvisor worldwide sites.
TripAdvisor Media Network ("TripAdvisor")
 Reflects worldwide results for our managed travel business.
Egencia
 Includes intercompany eliminations as well as unallocated corporate expenses.
Corporate
 Reported on a stayed basis, and includes both merchant and agency model hotel stays.
Worldwide Hotel
Definitions of Non-GAAP Measures
Expedia, Inc. reports Operating Income Before Amortization, Adjusted Net Income, Adjusted EPS, Free Cash Flow and non-GAAP operating expense (non-GAAP cost of revenue, non-GAAP selling and marketing, non-GAAP technology and content and non-GAAP general and administrative), all of which are supplemental measures to GAAP and are defined by the SEC as non-GAAP financial measures. These measures are among the primary metrics by which management evaluates the performance of the business, on which internal budgets are based and by which management is compensated. Management believes that investors should have access to the same set of tools that management uses to analyze our results. These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for or superior to GAAP. We endeavor to compensate for the limitation of the non-GAAP measures presented by also providing the most directly comparable GAAP measures and descriptions of the reconciling items and adjustments to derive the non-GAAP measures. The definitions of Operating Income Before Amortization and Adjusted Net Income were revised in the first quarter of 2009 to better reflect our current operations and take into consideration the impact of new accounting literature.
is defined as operating income plus: (1) stock-based compensation expense, including compensation expense related to certain subsidiary equity plans; (2) acquisition-related impacts, including (i) amortization of intangible assets and goodwill and intangible asset impairment, and (ii) gains (losses) recognized on changes in the value of contingent consideration arrangements; (3) certain infrequently occurring items, including restructuring; (4) charges incurred for monies that may be required to be paid in advance of litigation in certain occupancy tax proceedings; and (5) gains (losses) realized on revenue hedging activities that are included in other, net.
Operating Income Before Amortization ("OIBA")
For the second quarter of 2009, infrequently occurring items excluded from OIBA also included a $19 million reserve relating to a settlement agreement for the settlement of all claims alleged in a consumer class action lawsuit.
We exclude the items listed above from OIBA because doing so provides investors greater insight into management decision making at Expedia. We believe OIBA is useful to investors because it is our primary internal metric by which management evaluates the performance of our business as a whole and our individual business segments, on which internal budgets are based, and by which management, including our Chief Executive Officer, is compensated. In addition, we believe that by excluding certain items, such as stock-based compensation and acquisition-related impacts, OIBA corresponds more closely to the cash operating income generated from our business and allows investors to gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting the ongoing cash earnings capabilities of our business, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. Although depreciation is also a non-cash expense, it is included in OIBA because it is driven directly by the capital expenditure decisions made by management. OIBA has certain limitations in that it does not take into account the impact of certain expenses to our consolidated statements of operations. We endeavor to compensate for the limitation of the non-GAAP measure presented by also providing the comparable GAAP measure, GAAP financial statements, and descriptions of the reconciling items and adjustments, to derive the non-GAAP measure. However, OIBA should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measures. Due to the high variability and difficulty in predicting certain items that affect net income / (loss), such as tax rates, stock price, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, Expedia, Inc. is unable to provide a reconciliation to net income / (loss) on a forward-looking basis without unreasonable efforts. We present a reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to GAAP below.
 
generally captures all items on the statements of operations that occur in normal course operations and have been, or ultimately will be, settled in cash and is defined as net income/(loss) attributable to Expedia, Inc. plus net of tax: (1) stock-based compensation expense, including compensation expense related to certain subsidiary equity plans; (2) acquisition-related impacts, including (i) amortization of intangible assets, including as part of equity-method investments, and goodwill and intangible asset impairment, (ii) gains (losses) recognized on changes in the value of contingent consideration arrangements, and (iii) gains (losses) recognized on noncontrolling investment basis adjustments when we acquire controlling interests; (3) mark to market gains and losses on derivative instruments assumed at Spin-off; (4) currency gains or losses on U.S. dollar denominated cash or short-term investments held by eLong; (5) certain other infrequently occurring items, including restructuring (6) charges incurred for monies that may be required to be paid in advance of litigation in certain occupancy tax proceedings; (7) discontinued operations; and (8) the noncontrolling interest impact of the aforementioned adjustment items. We believe Adjusted Net Income is useful to investors because it represents Expedia, Inc.'s combined results, taking into account depreciation, which management believes is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the impact of other non-cash expenses, infrequently occurring items and items not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses.
Adjusted Net Income
is defined as Adjusted Net Income divided by adjusted weighted average shares outstanding, which include dilution from options and warrants per the treasury stock method and include all shares relating to RSUs in shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS. This differs from the GAAP method for including RSUs, which treats them on a treasury method basis. Shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS purposes are therefore higher than shares outstanding for GAAP EPS purposes. We believe Adjusted EPS is useful to investors because it represents, on a per share basis, Expedia's consolidated results, taking into account depreciation, which we believe is an ongoing cost of doing business, as well as other items which are not allocated to the operating businesses such as interest expense, taxes, foreign exchange gains or losses, and minority interest, but excluding the effects of non-cash expenses not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses. Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted EPS have similar limitations as OIBA. In addition, Adjusted Net Income does not include all items that affect our net income / (loss) and net income / (loss) per share for the period. Therefore, we think it is important to evaluate these measures along with our consolidated statements of operations.
Adjusted EPS
is defined as net cash flow provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. Management believes Free Cash Flow is useful to investors because it represents the operating cash flow that our operating businesses generate, less capital expenditures but before taking into account other cash movements that are not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses, such as financing activities, foreign exchange or certain investing activities. Free Cash Flow has certain limitations in that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period, nor does it represent the residual cash flow for discretionary expenditures. Therefore, it is important to evaluate Free Cash Flow along with the consolidated statements of cash flows.
Free Cash Flow
exclude stock-based compensation related to expenses for stock options, restricted stock units and other equity compensation under FAS 123(R). Expedia, Inc. excludes stock-based compensation expenses from these measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses that we do not believe are necessarily reflective of our ongoing cash operating expenses and cash operating income. In addition, due to historical accounting charges and credits related to our spin-off from IAC, changes in forfeiture estimates and other events, stock-based compensation has been highly variable in some historical quarters, impairing year-on-year and quarter-to-quarter comparability. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types that companies can use when adopting FAS 123(R), management believes that providing non-GAAP financial measures that exclude stock-based compensation allows investors to make meaningful comparisons between our recurring core business operating results and those of other companies, as well as providing management with an important tool for financial operational decision making and for evaluating our own recurring core business operating results over different periods of time. There are certain limitations in using financial measures that do not take into account stock-based compensation, including the fact that stock-based compensation is a recurring expense and a valued part of employees' compensation. Therefore it is important to evaluate both our GAAP and non-GAAP measures. See the Note to the Consolidated Statements of Operations for stock-based compensation by line item.
Non-GAAP cost of revenue, selling and marketing, technology and content and general and administrative expenses excluding stock-based compensation
 
Tabular Reconciliations for Non-GAAP Measures
Operating Income Before Amortization
Adjusted Net Income & Adjusted EPS
Free Cash Flow
 
Non-GAAP cost of revenue, selling and marketing, general and administrative and technology and content expenses excluding stock-based compensation
Conference Call
Expedia, Inc. will audiocast a conference call to discuss second quarter 2009 financial results and certain forward-looking information on Thursday, July 30, 2009 at 8:00 a.m. Pacific Time (PT). The audiocast will be open to the public and available via http://www.expediainc.com/ir. Expedia, Inc. expects to maintain access to the audiocast on the IR website for approximately three months subsequent to the initial broadcast.
Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. These forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations as of July 30, 2009 and assumptions which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. The use of words such as "intends" and "expects," among others, generally identify forward-looking statements. However, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements and may include statements relating to future revenues, expenses, margins, profitability, net income / (loss), earnings per share and other measures of results of operations and the prospects for future growth of Expedia, Inc.'s business.
Actual results and the timing and outcome of events may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, among others: continued or prolonged adverse economic conditions leading to decreased consumer and business spending; changes in Expedia, Inc.'s relationships and contractual agreements with travel suppliers or GDS partners; adverse changes in senior management; the rate of growth of online travel; our inability to recognize the benefits of our investment in technologies; changes in the competitive environment, the e-commerce industry and broadband access and our ability to respond to such changes; declines or disruptions in the travel industry (including those caused by adverse weather, bankruptcies, health risks, war and/or terrorism); the rate of online migration in the various geographies and markets in which Expedia, Inc. operates, including Eastern Europe and Asia; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; risks related to our long term indebtedness, including the ability to access funds as and when needed; changing laws, rules and regulations and legal uncertainties relating to our business; changes in search engine algorithms and dynamics; risks relating to a failure to perform of third parties to our financial and/or service agreements; the use of fraudulent credit cards on Expedia, Inc.'s websites; Expedia, Inc.'s ability to expand successfully in international markets; possible charges resulting from, among other events, platform migration; failure to realize cost efficiencies, including from any restructuring activities; the successful completion of any future corporate transactions or acquisitions; and the integration of current and acquired businesses; and other risks detailed in Expedia, Inc.'s public filings with the SEC, including Expedia, Inc.'s annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008, and subsequent Forms 10-Q.
Except as required by law, Expedia, Inc. undertakes no obligation to update any forward-looking or other statements in this press release, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
About Expedia, Inc.
Expedia, Inc. is the world's leading online travel company. With more people booking travel online in Expedia's global marketplace than anywhere else, the company delivers consumers value in leisure and business travel, drives demand for travel suppliers, and provides advertisers opportunities to reach in-market travel consumers. The Expedia, Inc. portfolio of brands includes: Expedia.com, hotels.com, Venere.com, Hotwire, Egencia (formerly Expedia Corporate Travel), TripAdvisor, Expedia Local Expert, Expedia CruiseShipCenters, Classic Vacations and eLong. Expedia, Inc.'s companies operate more than 70 global points of sale in more than 50 countries. Expedia also powers travel bookings for some of the world's leading airlines and hotels, top consumer brands, high traffic websites, and thousands of active affiliates. For more information, visit http://www.expediainc.com/.
CST # 2029030-40
Trademarks and logos are property of their respective owners. 2009 Expedia, Inc. All rights reserved.
Contacts


