FILE:EXPE/EXPE-8K-20100802214612.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 2, 2010, Expedia, Inc. (the "Company") announced the offering (the "Offering") and pricing (the "Pricing") of its unregistered senior unsecured notes (the "Notes"), which Notes are being offered pursuant to Rule 144A and Regulation S under the Securities Act of 1933 (the "Securities Act"). The Notes will not be registered under the Securities Act. Unless so registered, the Notes may not be offered or sold in the United States except pursuant to an exemption from, or in a transaction not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws. This Current Report on Form 8-K shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy, nor shall there be any sale of the Notes in any state in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such state.
The press releases announcing the Offering and the Pricing were issued in accordance with Rule 135c under the Securities Act and a copy of the press releases are attached hereto as Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2 and incorporated by reference herein.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibits 99.1 and 99.2, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for the purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section. The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K shall not be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or the Securities Act, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
,  Expedia, Inc. (Nasdaq: EXPE) announced today that it intends to commence an offering of senior unsecured notes (the "Notes") in a private offering (the "Offering"). The Notes will be guaranteed by certain subsidiaries of Expedia, Inc. The principal amount, maturity, interest rate and other terms of the Notes will be determined at the time of sale.
BELLEVUE, Wash.  August 2
2010
Expedia, Inc. plans to use the net proceeds of the Offering for general corporate purposes, including, without limitation, repurchases of its common stock and future acquisitions by it or any of its subsidiaries. General corporate purposes may also include repayment of debt, investments, additions to working capital, capital expenditures and advances to or investments in subsidiaries of Expedia, Inc. Net proceeds may be temporarily invested prior to use.
The Offering will be made only to qualified institutional buyers in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and to certain non-U.S. persons in accordance with Regulation S under the Securities Act. The Notes will not be registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold without registration unless an exemption from such registration is available. This notice is issued pursuant to Rule 135c of the Securities Act, and does not constitute an offer to sell the Notes, nor a solicitation for an offer to purchase the Notes.
This press release contains forward-looking statements regarding the future performance of Expedia, Inc., within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, Expedia, Inc.'s ability to consummate the Offering of the Notes. Additional cautionary statements regarding other risk factors that could have an effect on the future performance of Expedia, Inc. are contained in its filings with the SEC, including its reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. Expedia, Inc. undertakes no obligation to release publicly the result of any revisions to these forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.

Exhibit 99.2
  Expedia, Inc. (NASDAQ: EXPE) announced today that it has agreed to sell $750,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 5.95% senior notes due 2020 (the "Notes") in a private offering (the "Offering"). The Offering of the Notes is expected to close on August 5, 2010. The Notes will be guaranteed by certain subsidiaries of Expedia, Inc.
BELLEVUE, Wash.
August 2, 2010
Expedia, Inc. plans to use the net proceeds of the Offering for general corporate purposes, including, without limitation, repurchases of its common stock and future acquisitions by it or any of its subsidiaries. General corporate purposes may also include repayment of debt, investments, additions to working capital, capital expenditures and advances to or investments in subsidiaries of Expedia, Inc. Net proceeds may be temporarily invested prior to use.
The Offering will be made only to qualified institutional buyers in accordance with Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), and to certain non-U.S. persons in accordance with Regulation S under the Securities Act. The Notes will not be registered under the Securities Act and may not be offered or sold without registration unless an exemption from such registration is available. This notice is issued pursuant to Rule 135c of the Securities Act, and does not constitute an offer to sell the Notes, nor a solicitation for an offer to purchase the Notes.
This press release contains forward-looking statements regarding the future performance of Expedia, Inc., within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are subject to a variety of risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from current expectations. These risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, Expedia, Inc.'s ability to consummate the Offering of the Notes. Additional cautionary statements regarding other risk factors that could have an effect on the future performance of Expedia, Inc. are contained in its filings with the SEC, including its reports on Forms 10-K, 10-Q and 8-K. Expedia, Inc. undertakes no obligation to release publicly the result of any revisions to these forward-looking statements that may be made to reflect events or circumstances after the date hereof or to reflect the occurrence of unanticipated events.


