FILE:EXPE/EXPE-8K-20110728160820.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 28, 2011, Expedia, Inc. announced its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2011. The full text of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Expedia makes reference to non-GAAP financial measures in the press release, and includes information regarding such measures in the press release.
Pursuant to General Instruction B.2. to Form 8-K, the information set forth in this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Exchange Act
Securities Act
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
Expedia management intends to make presentations to various investors, analysts and others during July, August, September and October of 2011, using the slides containing company information attached to this report as Exhibit 99.2.
Pursuant to General Instruction B.2. to Form 8-K, the information set forth in this Item 7.01 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On July 28, 2011 the Company announced that its Executive Committee, acting on behalf of its Board of Directors, has declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share of outstanding common stock payable on September 16, 2011 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on August 26, 2011.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: July 28, 2011
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
BELLEVUE, Wash.July 28, 2011Expedia, Inc. (NASDAQ: EXPE) today announced financial results for our second quarter ended June 30, 2011.
 
 
 
Financial Summary & Operating Metrics (figures in $MMs except transactions and per share amounts)
 
 
Please refer to the Glossary in the Financial Information section on
Expedia's corporate website
for definitions of the business and financial terms discussed within this press release.
 
Discussion of Results
Gross Bookings, Revenue & Revenue Margins
Gross bookings increased 19% (15% excluding the estimated impact from year-on-year changes in foreign exchange rates) for the second quarter of 2011 compared with the second quarter of 2010, driven primarily by 15% growth in transactions, in addition to rising average airline ticket prices and average daily rates for hotel rooms. Domestic bookings increased 10% and international bookings increased 37% (22% excluding foreign exchange). International bookings totaled $3.0 billion, accounting for 38% of worldwide bookings compared to 33% in the prior year.
Revenue increased 23% (18% excluding foreign exchange) for the second quarter, primarily driven by an increase in hotel revenue and advertising and media revenue. Domestic revenue increased 10% while international revenue increased 45% (31% excluding foreign exchange). International revenue equaled $437 million, representing 43% of worldwide revenue compared to 36% in the prior year.
Revenue as a percentage of gross bookings ("revenue margin") was 12.9% for the second quarter, an increase of 40 basis points compared to the second quarter of 2010. The primary driver was strong growth in our higher margin hotel business partially offset by rising average air ticket prices.
Product & Services Detail
As a percentage of total worldwide revenue in the second quarter of 2011, hotel accounted for 65%, advertising and media accounted for 13%, air accounted for 10% and all other revenue sources accounted for the remaining 12%. Merchant transactions accounted for 44% of total gross bookings compared to 40% for the prior year period. The increase in merchant transactions was driven by strength in our merchant hotel business, particularly internationally. Merchant revenue equaled 67% of revenue in the second quarter, and remained relatively consistent with the prior year period. The shift in Easter timing contributed to the variance between merchant bookings and revenue growth rates.
Worldwide hotel revenue increased 27% for the second quarter driven by a 21% increase in room nights stayed. Revenue per room night increased 5% primarily due to higher average daily hotel rates during the quarter.
Worldwide air revenue decreased 1% for the second quarter, primarily due to a 3% decrease in air tickets sold, partially offset by an increase of 1% in revenue per ticket. The decrease in ticket volume was partially due to an 11% increase in average air ticket prices.
Advertising and media revenue increased 27% for the second quarter, driven by a 34% increase in third-party revenue for TripAdvisor. TripAdvisor experienced accelerated growth in cost per click (CPC) based revenue and display advertising revenue and robust growth in other revenue, primarily comprised of subscription-based products.
All other revenue (primarily car rentals, destination services and insurance) increased 19% for the second quarter driven by higher insurance revenue as well as fees related to our corporate travel business.
 
Costs and Expenses
(Stock-based compensation expenses of $13 million for second quarter 2011 and $15 million for second quarter 2010 have been excluded from all calculations and discussions below; some numbers may not add due to rounding.)
 
Cost of revenue (non-GAAP)
 
Selling and Marketing (non-GAAP)
 
 
 
Technology and Content (non-GAAP)
 
General and Administrative (non-GAAP)
 
Profitability
OIBA for the second quarter increased 11% (7% excluding foreign exchange) to $243 million due to increased revenue, partially offset by increased expenses. OIBA decreased 255 basis points as a percentage of revenue to 24% due to growth in selling and marketing expenses as well as technology and content expenses in excess of revenue growth.
Operating income increased 17% primarily due to the same factors impacting OIBA. The higher growth in operating income versus OIBA stems from a realized loss on revenue hedges in second quarter 2011 versus a realized gain on revenue hedges recorded in the prior year. Realized gains and losses from our revenue hedging program are included in OIBA and excluded from operating income. Operating income for second quarter 2011 includes approximately $2 million in costs related to the planned spin-off of TripAdvisor Media Group later this year.
Interest expense increased $11 million for second quarter 2011 as compared to the prior year period primarily due to the $750 million of additional debt issued in August 2010. Other, net represented a loss of $5 million in second quarter 2011 primarily comprised of realized foreign exchange losses on our hedges offsetting book-to-stay gains related to revenue earned in foreign currencies.
 
The effective tax rates on GAAP pre-tax income were 28.2% for the second quarter 2011 compared with 34.3% in the prior year period. The effective tax rate on pre-tax adjusted net income ("ANI") was 28.6% for the second quarter 2011 compared with 34.2% in the prior year period. The lower rate in the second quarter 2011 was primarily driven by an increase in estimated earnings in jurisdictions outside the United States.
Adjusted net income for the second quarter increased $26 million compared to the prior year period primarily due to higher OIBA and a lower effective tax rate, partially offset by higher interest expense. Net income increased $26 million compared to the prior year period primarily due to higher operating income and the same factors impacting adjusted net income. Adjusted EPS increased 25% to $0.55 and diluted EPS increased 25% to $0.50. The higher growth in adjusted EPS versus adjusted net income stems from our lower adjusted weighted average shares outstanding in second quarter 2011 versus the year prior.
The results for the second quarter of 2011 include Travelforce, which was acquired during the quarter, as well as Holiday Lettings, Mobiata and EveryTrail, which were acquired during the second quarter of 2010, fourth quarter of 2010 and first quarter of 2011, respectively. The collective impact of these acquisitions on second quarter 2011 results was not meaningful.
Foreign Exchange
Foreign currency rate fluctuations positively impacted our second quarter revenue growth rates primarily due to year-over-year appreciation in the Euro, Pound, Australian dollar and Canadian dollar.
Our revenue hedging program is designed to offset the book-to-stay impact on merchant hotel revenue. In the second quarter of 2011 we realized a loss from our hedging program of $6 million, which offset the book-to-stay gain. In the second quarter of 2010 we realized a gain from our hedging program of $3 million, which substantially offset the book-to-stay loss in that quarter. We include any realized gains or losses from our revenue hedging program in our calculation of OIBA.
Balance Sheet, Cash Flows and Capitalization
Cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and short-term investments totaled $2.3 billion at June 30, 2011. Of this amount, $289 million is held by our majority-owned subsidiaries, which is included in our consolidated financial statements but not considered available for our working capital purposes.
The total available under our $750 million unsecured revolving credit facility was $723 million. The only amounts applied to the revolver are outstanding letters of credit totaling $27 million. Long-term debt totaled $1.6 billion.
For the quarter ended June 30, 2011, net cash provided by operating activities was $491 million and free cash flow was $433 million. Both measures include $295 million from net changes in operating assets and liabilities, primarily driven by a working capital benefit from our merchant hotel business. Free cash flow increased $162 million compared to the prior year primarily due to our working capital benefit, partially offset by higher capital expenditures.
At June 30, 2011, we had stock-based awards outstanding representing approximately 25 million shares of our common stock, consisting of stock options to purchase 22 million common shares with a $19.07 weighted average exercise price and weighted average remaining life of 5.2 years, and 3 million restricted stock units (RSUs).
We did not make any share repurchases during the second quarter, and currently have 17.4 million shares of repurchase capacity under our existing repurchase authorization.
On June 17, 2011 we paid a quarterly dividend of $19 million ($0.07 per common share). In addition, the Executive Committee of Expedia's Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.07 per share of outstanding common stock to be paid to stockholders of record as of the close of business on August 26, 2011, with a payment date of September 16, 2011. Based on our current shares outstanding we estimate the total payment for this quarterly dividend will be approximately $19 million. Future declaration of dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to the final determination of Expedia's Board of Directors.
 
Recent Highlights
Global Presence
 
 
 
 
Traveler Value Proposition and Innovation
 
 
 
 
Media, Advertising and Distribution
 
 
 
 
Supply Portfolio
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Quantity of purchases reported as booked, net of cancellations. Packages purchased using our packages wizard, which by definition include a merchant hotel, are recorded as a single transaction.
Number of Transactions
 Total retail value of transactions booked for both agency and merchant transactions, recorded at the time of booking. Bookings include the total price due for travel, including taxes, fees and other charges, and are generally reduced for cancellations and refunds.
Gross Bookings
 Reflects results for travel products and services provided to customers of our leisure travel sites including Expedia branded sites, Hotels.com branded sites, Hotwire, the Expedia Affiliate Network and other leisure brands.
Leisure
 Reflects TripAdvisor.com and its international version sites, as well as acquired companies operated by TripAdvisor such as SmarterTravel and Kuxun.
TripAdvisor Media Group ("TripAdvisor")
 Reflects worldwide results for our managed corporate travel business.
Egencia
 Includes intercompany eliminations as well as unallocated corporate expenses.
Corporate
metrics  Reported on a stayed basis, and include both merchant and agency model hotel stays.
Worldwide Hotel
metrics  Reported on a booked basis and includes both merchant and agency air bookings.
Worldwide Air
Definitions of Non-GAAP Measures
Expedia, Inc. reports Operating Income Before Amortization, Adjusted Net Income, Adjusted EPS, Free Cash Flow and non-GAAP operating expenses (non-GAAP cost of revenue, non-GAAP selling and marketing, non-GAAP technology and content and non-GAAP general and administrative), all of which are supplemental measures to GAAP and are defined by the SEC as non-GAAP financial measures. These measures are among the primary metrics by which management evaluates the performance of the business, on which internal budgets are based and by which management is compensated. Management believes that investors should have access to the same set of tools that management uses to analyze our results. These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for or superior to GAAP. We endeavor to compensate for the limitation of the non-GAAP measures presented by also providing the most directly comparable GAAP measures and descriptions of the reconciling items and adjustments to derive the non-GAAP measures. The definition for OIBA was revised in the first quarter of 2009 and the definition for adjusted net income was revised in both the first quarter of 2009 and fourth quarter of 2010.
is defined as operating income plus: (1) stock-based compensation expense, including compensation expense related to certain subsidiary equity plans; (2) acquisition-related impacts, including (i) amortization of intangible assets and goodwill and intangible asset impairment, and (ii) gains (losses) recognized on changes in the value of contingent consideration arrangements; (3) certain infrequently occurring items, including restructuring; (4) charges incurred, if any, for monies that may be required to be paid in advance of litigation in certain occupancy tax proceedings; and (5) gains (losses) realized on revenue hedging activities that are included in other, net.
Operating Income Before Amortization ("OIBA")
For the second quarter of 2011, infrequently occurring items excluded from OIBA also included approximately $2 million in costs related to the planned spin-off of TripAdvisor Media Group later this year.
We exclude the items listed above from OIBA because doing so provides investors greater insight into management decision making at Expedia. We believe OIBA is useful to investors because it is our primary internal metric by which management evaluates the performance of our business as a whole and our individual business segments, on which internal budgets are based, and by which management, including our Chief Executive Officer, is compensated. In addition, we believe that by excluding certain items, such as stock-based compensation and acquisition-related impacts, OIBA corresponds more closely to the cash operating income generated from our business and allows investors to gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting the ongoing cash earnings capabilities of our business, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. Although depreciation is also a non-cash expense, it is included in OIBA because it is driven directly by the capital expenditure decisions made by management. OIBA has certain limitations in that it does not take into account the impact of certain expenses to our consolidated statements of operations. We endeavor to compensate for the limitation of the non-GAAP measure presented by also providing the comparable GAAP measure, GAAP financial statements, and descriptions of the reconciling items and adjustments, to derive the non-GAAP measure. However, OIBA should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measures. Due to the high variability and difficulty in predicting certain items that affect net income / (loss), such as tax rates, stock price, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, Expedia, Inc. is unable to provide a reconciliation to net income / (loss) on a forward-looking basis without unreasonable efforts. We present a reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to GAAP below.
 
generally captures all items on the statements of operations that occur in normal course operations and have been, or ultimately will be, settled in cash and is defined as net income/(loss) attributable to Expedia, Inc. plus net of tax: (1) stock-based compensation expense, including compensation expense related to certain subsidiary equity plans; (2) acquisition-related impacts, including (i) amortization of intangible assets, including as part of equity-method investments, and goodwill and intangible asset impairment, (ii) gains (losses) recognized on changes in the value of contingent consideration arrangements, and (iii) gains (losses) recognized on noncontrolling investment basis adjustments when we acquire controlling interests; (3) mark to market gains and losses on derivative instruments assumed at Spin-off; (4) currency gains or losses on U.S. dollar denominated cash or investments held by eLong; (5) certain other infrequently occurring items, including restructuring charges; (6) charges incurred, if any, for monies that may be required to be paid in advance of litigation in certain occupancy tax proceedings; (7) discontinued operations; (8) the noncontrolling interest impact of the aforementioned adjustment items and (9) unrealized gains (losses) on revenue hedging activities that are included in other, net. We believe Adjusted Net Income is useful to investors because it represents Expedia, Inc.'s combined results, taking into account depreciation, which management believes is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the impact of other non-cash expenses, infrequently occurring items and items not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses.
Adjusted Net Income
is defined as Adjusted Net Income divided by adjusted weighted average shares outstanding, which include dilution from options and warrants per the treasury stock method and include all shares relating to RSUs in shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS. This differs from the GAAP method for including RSUs, which treats them on a treasury method basis. Shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS purposes are therefore higher than shares outstanding for GAAP EPS purposes. We believe Adjusted EPS is useful to investors because it represents, on a per share basis, Expedia's consolidated results, taking into account depreciation, which we believe is an ongoing cost of doing business, as well as other items which are not allocated to the operating businesses such as interest expense, taxes, foreign exchange gains or losses, and minority interest, but excluding the effects of non-cash expenses not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses. Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted EPS have similar limitations as OIBA. In addition, Adjusted Net Income does not include all items that affect our net income / (loss) and net income / (loss) per share for the period. Therefore, we think it is important to evaluate these measures along with our consolidated statements of operations.
Adjusted EPS
is defined as net cash flow provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. Management believes Free Cash Flow is useful to investors because it represents the operating cash flow that our operating businesses generate, less capital expenditures but before taking into account other cash movements that are not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses, such as financing activities, foreign exchange or certain investing activities. Free Cash Flow has certain limitations in that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period, nor does it represent the residual cash flow for discretionary expenditures. Therefore, it is important to evaluate Free Cash Flow along with the consolidated statements of cash flows.
Free Cash Flow
exclude stock-based compensation related to expenses for stock options, restricted stock units and other equity compensation under applicable stock-based compensation accounting standards. Expedia, Inc. excludes stock-based compensation expenses from these measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses that we do not believe are necessarily reflective of our ongoing cash operating expenses and cash operating income. In addition, due to historical accounting charges and credits related to our spin-off from IAC, changes in forfeiture estimates and other events, stock-based compensation has been highly variable in some historical quarters, impairing year-on-year and quarter-to-quarter comparability. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types that companies can use when adopting applicable stock-based compensation accounting standards, management believes that providing non-GAAP financial measures that exclude stock-based compensation allows investors to make meaningful comparisons between our recurring core business operating results and those of other companies, as well as providing management with an important tool for financial operational decision making and for evaluating our own recurring core business operating results over different periods of time. There are certain limitations in using financial measures that do not take into account stock-based compensation, including the fact that stock-based compensation is a recurring expense and a valued part of employees' compensation. Therefore it is important to evaluate both our GAAP and non-GAAP measures. See the Note to the Consolidated Statements of Operations for stock-based compensation by line item.
Non-GAAP cost of revenue, selling and marketing, technology and content and general and administrative expenses excluding stock-based compensation
 
Tabular Reconciliations for Non-GAAP Measures
Operating Income Before Amortization
 
Adjusted Net Income & Adjusted EPS
 
Free Cash Flow
 
 
Non-GAAP cost of revenue, selling and marketing, general and administrative and technology and content expenses excluding stock-based compensation
 
Conference Call
Expedia, Inc. will audiocast a conference call to discuss second quarter 2011 financial results and certain forward-looking information on Thursday, July 28, 2011 at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time (PT). The audiocast will be open to the public and available via . Expedia, Inc. expects to maintain access to the audiocast on the IR website for approximately three months subsequent to the initial broadcast.
www.expediainc.com/ir
Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. These forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations as of July 28, 2011 and assumptions which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. The use of words such as "intends" and "expects," among others, generally identify forward-looking statements. However, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements and may include statements relating to future revenues, expenses, margins, profitability, net income / (loss), earnings per share and other measures of results of operations and the prospects for future growth of Expedia, Inc.'s business.
Actual results and the timing and outcome of events may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, among others: declines or disruptions in the travel industry; changes in our relationships and contractual agreements with travel suppliers or supplier intermediaries; risks relating to the announced spin-off of our TripAdvisor business; increases in the costs of maintaining and enhancing our brand awareness; changes in search engine algorithms and dynamics, or search engine disintermediation; our inability to adapt to technological developments or to maintain our existing technologies; our ability to expand successfully in international markets; changes in senior management; volatility in our stock price; changing laws, rules and regulations and legal uncertainties relating to our business; unfavorable new, or adverse application of existing, tax laws, rules or regulations; adverse outcomes in legal proceedings to which we are party; provisions in certain credit card processing agreements that could adversely impact our liquidity and financial positions; fluctuations in our effective tax rate; our inability to access the capital markets when necessary; risks related to our long term indebtedness; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; risks related to the failure of counterparties to perform on financial obligations; potential liabilities resulting from our processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data; the integration of current and acquired businesses; the risk that our intellectual property is not protected from copying or use by others, including competitors; and other risks detailed in our public filings with the SEC, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2011.
 
Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking or other statements in this press release, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Additional Information about the TripAdvisor Spin-Off
As previously announced, Expedia intends to spin-off its TripAdvisor Media Group businesses into a separate publicly-traded company. In connection with the proposed spin-off, Expedia has filed a preliminary proxy statement/prospectus with the SEC. Stockholders of Expedia are urged to read the definitive proxy statement/prospectus, when it becomes available, because it will contain important information about Expedia, the proposed spin-off transaction and related matters. Investors and security holders can obtain free copies of the definitive proxy statement/prospectus when it becomes available by contacting Investor Relations, Expedia, 333 108
th
Avenue N.E., Bellevue, Washington 98004 (Telephone: (425) 679-3555). Investors and security holders can also obtain free copies of the proxy statement/prospectus and other documents filed by Expedia and TripAdvisor with the SEC in connection with the proposed spin-off transaction at the SEC's web site at .
www.sec.gov
In addition to the proxy statement/prospectus, Expedia files annual, quarterly and current reports, proxy statements and other information with the SEC, each of which should be available at the SEC's web site at . You may also read and copy any reports, statements and other information filed by Expedia at the SEC public reference room at 100 F Street NE, Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information.
www.sec.gov
Expedia and its directors, executive officers and certain members of management and other employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies of Expedia's stockholders to approve the proposed spin-off transaction. Such individuals may have interests in the transaction as described in Expedia's proxy statement/prospectus, including as a result of current holdings of options, restricted share units or shares of Expedia's stock and future holdings of options, restricted share units or shares of TripAdvisor's stock, which will be impacted in the transaction. Information regarding Expedia and the equity interests of its directors and officers who may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies is contained in Expedia's preliminary proxy statement/prospectus, filed with the SEC on July 27, 2011.
About Expedia, Inc.
Expedia, Inc. is the largest online travel company in the world, with an extensive brand portfolio that includes more than 90 localized Expedia.com- and Hotels.com-branded sites; leading U.S. discount travel site Hotwire; leading agency hotel company Venere.com; Egencia, the world's fifth largest corporate travel management company; the world's largest travel community TripAdvisor Media Group; destination activities provider ExpediaLocalExpert; luxury travel specialist Classic Vacations; and China's second largest booking site eLong. The company delivers consumers value in leisure and business travel, drives incremental demand and direct bookings to travel suppliers, and provides advertisers vast opportunity to reach the most valuable audience of in-market travel consumers anywhere through TripAdvisor Media Group and Expedia Media Solutions. Expedia also powers bookings for some of the world's leading airlines and hotels, top consumer brands, high traffic websites, and thousands of active affiliates through Expedia Affiliate Network.
Trademarks and logos are the property of their respective owners. 2011 Expedia, Inc. All rights reserved. CST: 2029030-50
Contacts
 
 



