FILE:EXPE/EXPE-8K-20110428160603.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 28, 2011, Expedia, Inc. announced its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2011. The full text of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Expedia makes reference to non-GAAP financial measures in the press release, and includes information regarding such measures in the press release.
Pursuant to General Instruction B.2. to Form 8-K, the information set forth in this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Exchange Act
Securities Act
 
Expedia management intends to make presentations to various investors, analysts and others during April, May, June and July of 2011, using the slides containing company information attached to this report as Exhibit 99.2.
Pursuant to General Instruction B.2. to Form 8-K, the information set forth in this Item 7.01 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
On April 28, 2011 the Company announced that its Executive Committee, acting on behalf of its Board of Directors, has declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share of outstanding common stock payable on June 17, 2011 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on May 27, 2011.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: April 28, 2011
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
BELLEVUE, Wash.April 28, 2011Expedia, Inc. (NASDAQ: EXPE) today announced financial results for its first quarter ended March 31, 2011.
 
 
 
 
Financial Summary & Operating Metrics (figures in $MMs except transactions and per share amounts)
 
Subsequent to quarter-end, we announced our intention to separate Expedia, Inc. into two publicly traded companies, whereby TripAdvisor and all the domestic and international operations associated with TripAdvisor Media Group would become an independent entity. TripAdvisor is the unquestioned leader in the travel media space, with more than 50 million monthly unique users in 29 countries and 20 languages. Expedia will move forward as the world's largest online travel agency, driving more than $26 billion in annual travel bookings to suppliers all over the world.
We also announced a new joint venture with AirAsia representing the first partnership ever between a low cost carrier and an online travel agency. The joint venture company will focus on Asia and have the exclusive online third-party distribution rights in the region for AirAsia and AirAsiaX flights and travel packages.
 
Please refer to the Glossary in the Financial Information section on
Expedia's corporate website
for definitions of the business and financial terms discussed within this press release
.
 
Discussion of Results
Gross Bookings, Revenue & Revenue Margins
Gross bookings increased 10% (9% excluding the estimated impact from year on year changes in foreign exchange rates) for the first quarter of 2011 compared with the first quarter of 2010, driven primarily by a 13% increase in average airfares, 8% growth in transactions and a 3% increase in hotel average daily rates. Domestic bookings increased 4% and international bookings increased 20% (19% excluding foreign exchange). International bookings totaled $2.9 billion, accounting for 39% of worldwide bookings. A summary of hotel gross bookings growth for certain of our brands follows.
 
Revenue increased 15% (13% excluding foreign exchange) for the first quarter, primarily driven by an increase in hotel revenue and advertising and media revenue. Domestic revenue increased 6% while international revenue increased 31% (25% excluding foreign exchange). International revenue equaled $327 million, representing 40% of worldwide revenue.
Revenue as a percentage of gross bookings ("revenue margin") was 11.3% for the first quarter, an increase of 45 basis points compared to the first quarter of 2010. The primary drivers include a shift to higher margin products and growth in advertising and media revenue, partially offset by rising average air ticket prices.
Product & Services Detail
As a percentage of total worldwide revenue in the first quarter of 2011, hotel accounted for 59%, advertising and media accounted for 15%, air accounted for 13% and all other revenue accounted for the remaining 13%. Merchant transactions accounted for 43% of total gross bookings and 63% of revenue in the first quarter, relatively consistent with the prior year period.
Worldwide hotel revenue increased 16% for the first quarter driven by a 15% increase in room nights stayed. Revenue per room night increased 1%.
Worldwide air revenue increased 6% for the first quarter, primarily due to an 18% increase in revenue per ticket, partially offset by a decline in ticket volume of 10%. The increase in revenue per ticket was primarily due to increasing average air ticket prices, acceleration of merchant air revenue and performance-based incentives. The decrease in ticket volume was partially due to a 13% increase in average air ticket prices and lack of American Airlines content for the duration of first quarter 2011. Expedia and Hotwire sites worldwide added back American Airlines content on April 4, 2011 pursuant to a memorandum of understanding reached with American Airlines.
Advertising and media revenue increased 23% for the first quarter, driven by a 32% increase in third-party revenue for TripAdvisor. TripAdvisor experienced robust growth in its three main revenue categories during first quarter 2011 including cost per click (CPC) based revenue, display advertising revenue and triple digit growth in other revenue, generally comprised of subscription-based products.
All other revenue (primarily car rentals, destination services and insurance) increased 7% for the first quarter.
 
Costs and Expenses
(Stock-based compensation expenses of $17 million for first quarter 2011 and $19 million for first quarter 2010 have been excluded from all calculations and discussions below; some numbers may not add due to rounding.)
 
Cost of revenue (non-GAAP)
 
Selling and Marketing (non-GAAP)
 
 
Technology and Content (non-GAAP)
 
General and Administrative (non-GAAP)
 
Profitability
OIBA for the first quarter decreased 9% (7% excluding foreign exchange) to $129 million primarily due to increased costs and expenses, partially offset by increased revenue. OIBA decreased 413 basis points as a percentage of revenue to 16% due to growth in selling and marketing expenses, technology and content expenses as well as general and administrative expenses in excess of revenue growth.
Operating income decreased 4% primarily due to the same factors impacting OIBA. The smaller year-over-year variance in operating income versus OIBA stems from a realized loss on revenue hedges in first quarter 2011 versus a realized gain on revenue hedges recorded in the prior year.
Interest expense increased $10 million for first quarter 2011 as compared to the prior year period primarily due to the $750 million of additional debt issued in August 2010. Other, net represented a loss of $6 million in first quarter 2011 primarily comprised of foreign exchange losses offsetting book-to-stay gains related to revenue earned in foreign currencies.
 
The effective tax rates on GAAP pre-tax income were 29.6% for the first quarter 2011 compared with 34.2% in the prior year period. The effective tax rate on pre-tax adjusted net income ("ANI") was 29.6% for the first quarter 2011 compared with 33.8% in the prior year period. The lower rate in the first quarter 2011 was primarily driven by an increase in estimated earnings in jurisdictions outside the United States.
Adjusted net income for the first quarter decreased $6 million compared to the prior year period primarily due to lower OIBA, higher interest expense and other net losses. Net income decreased $7 million compared to the prior year period primarily due to lower operating income and the same factors impacting adjusted net income. Adjusted EPS decreased 4% to $0.25 and diluted EPS decreased 5% to $0.19.
The results for the first quarter of 2011 include EveryTrail, which was acquired during the quarter, as well as Holiday Lettings and Mobiata which were acquired during the second quarter of 2010 and fourth quarter of 2010, respectively. The impact on first quarter 2011 was not meaningful.
Foreign Exchange
Foreign currency rate fluctuations positively impacted our first quarter revenue growth rates primarily due to year-over-year appreciation in the Pound, Nordic currencies and Canadian dollar.
Our revenue hedging program is designed to offset the book-to-stay impact on merchant hotel revenue. In the first quarter of 2011 we realized a loss from our hedging program of $5 million, which more than offset the book-to-stay gain. In the first quarter of 2010 we realized a gain from our hedging program of $2 million, which partially offset the book-to-stay loss in that quarter. We include any realized gains or losses from our revenue hedging program in our calculation of OIBA.
Balance Sheet, Cash Flows and Capitalization
Cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and short-term investments totaled $1.8 billion at March 31, 2011. Of this amount, $162 million is held by our majority-owned subsidiaries. We consolidate such amounts in our financial statements, but we do not consider this cash available for our working capital purposes.
The total available under our $750 million unsecured revolving credit facility was $723 million. The only amounts applied to the revolver are outstanding letters of credit totaling $27 million. Long-term debt totaled $1.6 billion.
For the quarter ended March 31, 2011, net cash provided by operating activities was $729 million and free cash flow was $678 million. Both measures include $625 million from net changes in operating assets and liabilities, primarily driven by a working capital benefit from our merchant hotel business. Free cash flow increased $88 million compared to the prior year primarily due to an increase in our working capital benefit offset by higher interest payments, higher capital expenditures and lower OIBA.
At March 31, 2011, we had stock-based awards outstanding representing approximately 27 million shares of our common stock, consisting of stock options to purchase 23 million common shares with an $18.56 weighted average exercise price and weighted average remaining life of 5.4 years, and 3 million restricted stock units (RSUs). During first quarter 2011, we granted 6 million stock options as part of our annual employee award process.
Under our current share repurchase program, we repurchased 2 million common shares for an aggregate purchase price of $41 million excluding transaction costs ($20.40 per-share) during the quarter. After these purchases, we currently have 17.4 million shares of repurchase capacity available.
On March 31, 2011 we paid a quarterly dividend of $19 million ($0.07 per common share). In addition, the Executive Committee of Expedia's Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.07 per share of outstanding common stock to be paid to stockholders of record as of the close of business on May 27, 2011, with a payment date of June 17, 2011. Based on our current shares outstanding we estimate the total payment for this quarterly dividend will be approximately $19 million. Future declaration of dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to the final determination of Expedia's Board of Directors.
 
Recent Highlights
Global Presence
 
 
 
 
 
Traveler Value Proposition and Innovation
 
 
 
 
 
 
Media, Advertising and Distribution
 
 
Supply Portfolio
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Quantity of purchases reported as booked, net of cancellations. Packages purchased using our packages wizard, which by definition include a merchant hotel, are recorded as a single transaction.
Number of Transactions
 Total retail value of transactions booked for both agency and merchant transactions, recorded at the time of booking. Bookings include the total price due for travel, including taxes, fees and other charges, and are generally reduced for cancellations and refunds.
Gross Bookings
 Reflects results for travel products and services provided to customers of our leisure travel sites including Expedia branded sites, Hotels.com branded sites, Hotwire, the Expedia Affiliate Network and other leisure brands.
Leisure
 Reflects TripAdvisor.com and its international version sites, as well as acquired companies operated by TripAdvisor such as SmarterTravel and Kuxun.
TripAdvisor Media Group ("TripAdvisor")
 Reflects worldwide results for our managed corporate travel business.
Egencia
 Includes intercompany eliminations as well as unallocated corporate expenses.
Corporate
metrics  Reported on a stayed basis, and include both merchant and agency model hotel stays.
Worldwide Hotel
metrics  Reported on a booked basis and includes both merchant and agency air bookings.
Worldwide Air
Definitions of Non-GAAP Measures
Expedia, Inc. reports Operating Income Before Amortization, Adjusted Net Income, Adjusted EPS, Free Cash Flow and non-GAAP operating expenses (non-GAAP cost of revenue, non-GAAP selling and marketing, non-GAAP technology and content and non-GAAP general and administrative), all of which are supplemental measures to GAAP and are defined by the SEC as non-GAAP financial measures. These measures are among the primary metrics by which management evaluates the performance of the business, on which internal budgets are based and by which management is compensated. Management believes that investors should have access to the same set of tools that management uses to analyze our results. These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for or superior to GAAP. We endeavor to compensate for the limitation of the non-GAAP measures presented by also providing the most directly comparable GAAP measures and descriptions of the reconciling items and adjustments to derive the non-GAAP measures. The definition for OIBA was revised in the first quarter of 2009 and the definition for adjusted net income was revised in both the first quarter of 2009 and fourth quarter of 2010.
is defined as operating income plus: (1) stock-based compensation expense, including compensation expense related to certain subsidiary equity plans; (2) acquisition-related impacts, including (i) amortization of intangible assets and goodwill and intangible asset impairment, and (ii) gains (losses) recognized on changes in the value of contingent consideration arrangements; (3) certain infrequently occurring items, including restructuring; (4) charges incurred, if any, for monies that may be required to be paid in advance of litigation in certain occupancy tax proceedings; and (5) gains (losses) realized on revenue hedging activities that are included in other, net.
Operating Income Before Amortization ("OIBA")
We exclude the items listed above from OIBA because doing so provides investors greater insight into management decision making at Expedia. We believe OIBA is useful to investors because it is our primary internal metric by which management evaluates the performance of our business as a whole and our individual business segments, on which internal budgets are based, and by which management, including our Chief Executive Officer, is compensated. In addition, we believe that by excluding certain items, such as stock-based compensation and acquisition-related impacts, OIBA corresponds more closely to the cash operating income generated from our business and allows investors to gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting the ongoing cash earnings capabilities of our business, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. Although depreciation is also a non-cash expense, it is included in OIBA because it is driven directly by the capital expenditure decisions made by management. OIBA has certain limitations in that it does not take into account the impact of certain expenses to our consolidated statements of operations. We endeavor to compensate for the limitation of the non-GAAP measure presented by also providing the comparable GAAP measure, GAAP financial statements, and descriptions of the reconciling items and adjustments, to derive the non-GAAP measure. However, OIBA should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measures. Due to the high variability and difficulty in predicting certain items that affect net income / (loss), such as tax rates, stock price, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, Expedia, Inc. is unable to provide a reconciliation to net income / (loss) on a forward-looking basis without unreasonable efforts. We present a reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to GAAP below.
 
generally captures all items on the statements of operations that occur in normal course operations and have been, or ultimately will be, settled in cash and is defined as net income/(loss) attributable to Expedia, Inc. plus net of tax: (1) stock-based compensation expense, including compensation expense related to certain subsidiary equity plans; (2) acquisition-related impacts, including (i) amortization of intangible assets, including as part of equity-method investments, and goodwill and intangible asset impairment, (ii) gains (losses) recognized on changes in the value of contingent consideration arrangements, and (iii) gains (losses) recognized on noncontrolling investment basis adjustments when we acquire controlling interests; (3) mark to market gains and losses on derivative instruments assumed at Spin-off; (4) currency gains or losses on U.S. dollar denominated cash or investments held by eLong; (5) certain other infrequently occurring items, including restructuring charges; (6) charges incurred, if any, for monies that may be required to be paid in advance of litigation in certain occupancy tax proceedings; (7) discontinued operations; (8) the noncontrolling interest impact of the aforementioned adjustment items and (9) unrealized gains (losses) on revenue hedging activities that are included in other, net. We believe Adjusted Net Income is useful to investors because it represents Expedia, Inc.'s combined results, taking into account depreciation, which management believes is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the impact of other non-cash expenses, infrequently occurring items and items not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses.
Adjusted Net Income
is defined as Adjusted Net Income divided by adjusted weighted average shares outstanding, which include dilution from options and warrants per the treasury stock method and include all shares relating to RSUs in shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS. This differs from the GAAP method for including RSUs, which treats them on a treasury method basis. Shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS purposes are therefore higher than shares outstanding for GAAP EPS purposes. We believe Adjusted EPS is useful to investors because it represents, on a per share basis, Expedia's consolidated results, taking into account depreciation, which we believe is an ongoing cost of doing business, as well as other items which are not allocated to the operating businesses such as interest expense, taxes, foreign exchange gains or losses, and minority interest, but excluding the effects of non-cash expenses not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses. Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted EPS have similar limitations as OIBA. In addition, Adjusted Net Income does not include all items that affect our net income / (loss) and net income / (loss) per share for the period. Therefore, we think it is important to evaluate these measures along with our consolidated statements of operations.
Adjusted EPS
is defined as net cash flow provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. Management believes Free Cash Flow is useful to investors because it represents the operating cash flow that our operating businesses generate, less capital expenditures but before taking into account other cash movements that are not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses, such as financing activities, foreign exchange or certain investing activities. Free Cash Flow has certain limitations in that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period, nor does it represent the residual cash flow for discretionary expenditures. Therefore, it is important to evaluate Free Cash Flow along with the consolidated statements of cash flows.
Free Cash Flow
Non-GAAP cost of revenue, selling and marketing, technology and content and general and administrative expenses excluding stock-based compensation
exclude stock-based compensation related to expenses for stock options, restricted stock units and other equity compensation under applicable stock-based compensation accounting standards. Expedia, Inc. excludes stock-based compensation expenses from these measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses that we do not believe are necessarily reflective of our ongoing cash operating expenses and cash operating income. In addition, due to historical accounting charges and credits related to our spin-off from IAC, changes in forfeiture estimates and other events, stock-based compensation has been highly variable in some historical quarters, impairing year-on-year and quarter-to-quarter comparability. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types that companies can use when adopting applicable stock-based compensation accounting standards, management believes that providing non-GAAP financial measures that exclude stock-based compensation allows investors to make meaningful comparisons between our recurring core business operating results and those of other companies, as well as providing management with an important tool for financial operational decision making and for evaluating our own recurring core business operating results over different periods of time. There are certain limitations in using financial measures that do not take into account stock-based compensation, including the fact that stock-based compensation is a recurring expense and a valued part of employees' compensation. Therefore it is important to evaluate both our GAAP and non-GAAP measures. See the Note to the Consolidated Statements of Operations for stock-based compensation by line item.
 
Tabular Reconciliations for Non-GAAP Measures
Operating Income Before Amortization
 
Adjusted Net Income & Adjusted EPS
 
Free Cash Flow
 
 
Non-GAAP cost of revenue, selling and marketing, general and administrative and technology and content expenses excluding stock-based compensation
 
Conference Call
Expedia, Inc. will audiocast a conference call to discuss first quarter 2011 financial results and certain forward-looking information on Thursday, April 28, 2011 at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time (PT). The audiocast will be open to the public and available via . Expedia, Inc. expects to maintain access to the audiocast on the IR website for approximately three months subsequent to the initial broadcast.
www.expediainc.com/ir
Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. These forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations as of April 28, 2011 and assumptions which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. The use of words such as "intends" and "expects," among others, generally identify forward-looking statements. However, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements and may include statements relating to future revenues, expenses, margins, profitability, net income / (loss), earnings per share and other measures of results of operations and the prospects for future growth of Expedia, Inc.'s business.
Actual results and the timing and outcome of events may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, among others: declines or disruptions in the travel industry; changes in our relationships and contractual agreements with travel suppliers or supplier intermediaries; risks relating to the announced spin-off of our TripAdvisor business; increases in the costs of maintaining and enhancing our brand awareness; changes in search engine algorithms and dynamics, or search engine disintermediation; our inability to adapt to technological developments or to maintain our existing technologies; our ability to expand successfully in international markets; changes in senior management; volatility in our stock price; changing laws, rules and regulations and legal uncertainties relating to our business; unfavorable new, or adverse application of existing, tax laws, rules or regulations; adverse outcomes in legal proceedings to which we are party; provisions in certain credit card processing agreements that could adversely impact our liquidity and financial positions; fluctuations in our effective tax rate; our inability to access the capital markets when necessary; risks related to our long term indebtedness; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; risks related to the failure of counterparties to perform on financial obligations; potential liabilities resulting from our processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data; the integration of current and acquired businesses; the risk that our intellectual property is not protected from copying or use by others, including competitors; and other risks detailed in our public filings with the SEC, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.
 
Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking or other statements in this press release, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
About Expedia, Inc.
Expedia, Inc. is the largest online travel company in the world, with an extensive brand portfolio that includes more than 90 localized Expedia.com- and Hotels.com-branded sites; leading U.S. discount travel site Hotwire; leading agency hotel company Venere.com; Egencia, the world's fifth largest corporate travel management company; the world's largest travel community TripAdvisor Media Group; destination activities provider ExpediaLocalExpert; luxury travel specialist Classic Vacations; and China's second largest booking site eLong. The company delivers consumers value in leisure and business travel, drives incremental demand and direct bookings to travel suppliers, and provides advertisers vast opportunity to reach the most valuable audience of in-market travel consumers anywhere through TripAdvisor Media Group and Expedia Media Solutions. Expedia also powers bookings for some of the world's leading airlines and hotels, top consumer brands, high traffic websites, and thousands of active affiliates through Expedia Affiliate Network.
Trademarks and logos are the property of their respective owners.
2011 Expedia, Inc. All rights reserved. CST: 2029030-50
Contacts
 
 



