FILE:EXPE/EXPE-8K-20110921170935.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Appointment of Chief Financial Officer and Chief Accounting Officer
On September 15, 2011, the Board of Directors of Expedia, Inc. ("Expedia" or the "Company") accepted the resignation of Michael B. Adler as the Company's Chief Financial Officer and approved the appointment of Mark D. Okerstrom as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, each effective as of September 26, 2011. The Company had previously announced Mr. Adler's intention to resign as Chief Financial Officer and Mr. Okerstrom's selection as his successor.
Also on September 15, 2011, the Company's Board of Directors accepted the resignation of Patricia L. Zuccotti as the Company's Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller and approved the appointment of Lance A. Soliday as Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Controller, each effective as of September 15, 2011. The Company had previously announced Ms. Zuccotti's intention to retire as Chief Accounting Officer.
Mr. Okerstrom, age 38, has served as Expedia's Senior Vice President of Corporate Development since February 2009. Mr. Okerstrom had previously served as Vice President, Corporate Development from February 2008 until February 2009 and as Senior Director, Corporate Development from the time he joined Expedia in October 2006 until February 2008. Prior to joining Expedia, Mr. Okerstrom was a consultant with Bain & Company in Boston and San Francisco, and worked with UBS Investment Bank in London. Prior to that, Mr. Okerstrom practiced as an attorney with the global law firm of Freshfields Bruckhaus Deringer in London. Mr. Okerstrom received an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School and a law degree from the University of British Columbia.
Mr. Soliday, age 39, has served as Expedia's Senior Director, Financial Reporting since February 2009. Mr. Soliday had previously served as Expedia's Director, Financial Reporting from December 2006 to February 2009 and as Director, Accounting Research from the time he joined Expedia in May 2006. Prior to joining Expedia, Mr. Soliday served in various accounting roles in the finance departments of Amazon.com, Inc. from September 2000 to April 2006 and of Microsoft Corporation from November 1999 to September 2000. Prior to joining Microsoft Corporation, Mr. Soliday served as an accountant with Deloitte & Touche LLP for four years. Mr. Soliday received his bachelor's degree from Central Washington University and is a certified public accountant.
Neither Mr. Okerstrom nor Mr. Soliday has any family relationships with any director, executive officer, or person nominated or chosen by Expedia to become a director or executive officer of Expedia. Neither Mr. Okerstrom nor Mr. Soliday is a party to any transaction required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K.
Compensatory Arrangements
On September 15, 2011, in connection with Mr. Okerstrom's appointment as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, the Compensation Committee and Section 16 Committee of the Company's Board of Directors (the "Committees") approved the following employment arrangements for Mr. Okerstrom, subject to Mr. Okerstrom entering into a new employment agreement consistent with such terms:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On the same date, the Committees approved an award to Mr. Okerstrom of options to purchase 50,000 shares of Expedia common stock vesting annually over four years.
Also on September 15, 2011, the Committees approved the following separation arrangements for Mr. Adler, subject to Mr. Adler entering into a separation agreement consistent with such terms:
 
 
 
 
 
Additionally, in connection with his appointment as the Company's Chief Accounting Officer, Mr. Soliday's annual base salary will be $195,000 and his target bonus will be 40% of his base salary.
 
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: September 21, 2011
 


