FILE:EXPE/EXPE-8K-20110210160416.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On February 10, 2011, Expedia, Inc. announced its financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2010. The full text of this release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Expedia makes reference to non-GAAP financial measures in the release, and includes information regarding such measures in the release.
Pursuant to General Instruction B.2. to Form 8-K, the information set forth in this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Exchange Act
Securities Act
 
Expedia management intends to make presentations to various investors, analysts and others during February, March and April of 2011, using the slides containing company information attached to this report as Exhibit 99.2.
Pursuant to General Instruction B.2. to Form 8-K, the information set forth in this Item 7.01 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Exchange Act or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
On February 10, 2011 the Company announced that its Executive Committee, acting on behalf of its Board of Directors, has declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.07 per share of outstanding common stock payable on March 11, 2011, to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 31, 2011.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
BELLEVUE, Wash.February 10, 2011Expedia, Inc. (NASDAQ: EXPE) today announced financial results for its fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2010.
 
 
 
Financial Summary & Operating Metrics (figures in $MMs except transactions and per share amounts)
 
 
.
Please refer to the Glossary in the Financial Information section on
Expedia's corporate website
for definitions of the business and financial terms discussed within this press release
 
Discussion of Results  Fourth Quarter 2010
Gross Bookings, Revenue & Revenue Margins
Gross bookings increased 14% (15% excluding the estimated impact from year on year changes in foreign exchange rates) for the fourth quarter of 2010 compared with the fourth quarter of 2009, driven primarily by 13% growth in transactions, 5% increase in average airfares and a 2% increase in hotel average daily rates. Domestic bookings increased 13% and international bookings increased 16% (19% excluding foreign exchange).
Revenue increased 16% (17% excluding foreign exchange) for the fourth quarter, primarily driven by an increase in hotel revenue and advertising and media revenue. Domestic revenue increased 15% while international revenue increased 17% (27% excluding foreign exchange).
Revenue as a percentage of gross bookings ("revenue margin") was 14.0% for the fourth quarter, an increase of 23 basis points compared to the fourth quarter of 2009. The primary drivers include a shift to higher margin products, growth in advertising and media revenue and acceleration of air and other revenue, as described below, partially offset by higher average air ticket prices.
Products & Services Detail
Worldwide hotel revenue increased 15% for the fourth quarter due to a 15% increase in room nights stayed, including rooms delivered as a component of packages. Revenue per room night was flat.
Worldwide air revenue increased 15% for the fourth quarter, primarily due to a 9% increase in revenue per ticket and a 6% increase in air tickets sold. Revenue per ticket increased primarily as a result of an acceleration of merchant air revenue leading to a one-time increase in air revenue of approximately $5 million.
Advertising and media revenue increased 29% for the fourth quarter, driven by a 38% increase in third-party revenue for TripAdvisor. All other revenue (primarily car rentals and destination services) increased 10% for the fourth quarter, including a one-time acceleration of revenue on certain other products of $4 million during fourth quarter 2010.
As a percentage of worldwide revenues in the fourth quarter of 2010, hotel accounted for 64%, advertising and media accounted for 12%, air accounted for 11% and all other revenues accounted for the remaining 13%.
Profitability
OIBA for the fourth quarter increased 7% (11% excluding foreign exchange) to $175 million primarily due to increased revenue, partially offset by increased costs and expenses. OIBA decreased 170 basis points as a percentage of revenue to 22% due to growth in cost of revenue and selling and marketing expenses in excess of revenue growth. For the fourth quarter of 2010, general and administrative expense included $8 million related to an increase in occupancy tax reserves and accruals, which is also included in OIBA.
Operating income increased 6% primarily due to the same factors impacting OIBA. In addition, operating income for fourth quarter 2010 included $6 million in occupancy tax assessments and legal reserves. During the fourth quarter of 2009 we agreed to an adjustment on the San Francisco occupancy tax assessment that was included in operating income and reduced the overall exposure by $7 million. These items were excluded from OIBA.
Adjusted net income for the fourth quarter increased $3 million compared to the prior year period primarily due to higher OIBA partially offset by higher interest expense. Net income decreased $31 million compared to the prior year period primarily due to a higher effective tax rate and increased interest expense. Adjusted EPS increased 10% to $0.32 and diluted EPS decreased 29% to $0.25.
 
Discussion of Results  Full Year 2010
Gross Bookings, Revenue & Revenue Margins
Gross bookings increased 19% (19% excluding the estimated impact from year on year changes in foreign exchange rates) in 2010 compared with 2009, driven primarily by 14% growth in transactions, a 10% increase in average airfares and a 1% increase in hotel average daily rates. Domestic bookings increased 16% and international bookings increased 25% (26% excluding foreign exchange).
Revenue increased 13% (14% excluding foreign exchange) for the year, primarily driven by an increase in hotel revenue and advertising and media revenue. Domestic revenue increased 11% while international revenue increased 18% (26% excluding foreign exchange).
Revenue as a percentage of gross bookings ("revenue margin") was 12.9% for the year, a decrease of 65 basis points compared to 2009, primarily due to higher average air ticket prices partially offset by growth in advertising and media revenue.
Products & Services Detail
Worldwide hotel revenue increased 11% for the year due to a 14% increase in room nights stayed, including rooms delivered as a component of packages. Revenue per room night decreased 3% year over year.
Worldwide air revenue increased 12% for the year, primarily due to an 11% increase in air tickets sold and a 1% increase in revenue per ticket.
Advertising and media revenue increased 36% for the year, driven by a 48% increase in third-party revenue for TripAdvisor. All other revenue (primarily car rentals and destination services) increased 6% for the year.
As a percentage of worldwide revenue for 2010, hotel accounted for 63%, advertising and media accounted for 13%, air accounted for 12% and all other revenue accounted for the remaining 13%.
Profitability
OIBA for the year increased 9% (10% excluding foreign exchange) to $831 million primarily due to increased revenues, partially offset by increased costs and expenses. OIBA decreased 96 basis points as a percentage of revenue to 25% due to growth in selling and marketing, cost of revenue, and technology and content expenses in excess of revenue growth.
Operating income increased 28% due to the same factors impacting OIBA. In addition, operating income for 2009 included $68 million in occupancy tax assessments and legal reserves and $34 million of restructuring charges. These items were excluded from OIBA.
Adjusted net income for the year increased $85 million or 21% compared to the prior year period primarily due to higher OIBA and a lower effective tax rate partially offset by higher interest expense. Net income increased $122 million or 41% compared to the prior year period primarily due to higher operating income. Adjusted EPS increased 24% to $1.70 and diluted EPS increased 42% to $1.46.
Cash Flows
For the year ended December 31, 2010, net cash provided by operating activities was $777 million and free cash flow was $622 million. Both measures include $101 million from net changes in operating assets and liabilities, primarily driven by a working capital benefit from our merchant hotel business. Free cash flow increased $38 million compared to the prior year primarily due to higher OIBA, significantly lower occupancy tax assessment payments and lower cash tax payments partially offset by higher capital expenditures, a decrease in our working capital benefit and higher payments made for legal settlements and restructuring. Cash and cash equivalents excluding amounts related to non-wholly owned subsidiaries was $649 million as of December 31, 2010.
 
Recent Highlights
Global Presence
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Traveler Value Proposition and Innovation
 
 
 
 
 
Media, Advertising and Distribution
 
 
 
 
Supply Portfolio
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Income Statement Trends
Transactions / Gross Bookings / Revenue
 
 
Costs and Expenses
(Stock-based compensation expense has been excluded from all calculations and discussions below; some numbers may not add due to rounding.)
 
Cost of revenue (non-GAAP)
 
Selling and Marketing (non-GAAP)
 
 
 
Technology and Content (non-GAAP)
 
 
General and Administrative (non-GAAP)
 
 
Stock-Based Compensation Expense
 
 
 
 
Occupancy Tax Assessments and Legal Reserves
 
 
 
Restructuring Charges
 
Interest Income and Interest Expense
 
 
Other, Net
 
 
 
 
 
 
Income Taxes
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Foreign Exchange
 
 
 
Acquisitions
 
Balance Sheet Trends
Cash, Cash Equivalents, Restricted Cash and Short-Term Investments
 
 
 
 
Accounts Receivable
 
Prepaid Expenses, Prepaid Merchant Bookings and Other Current Assets
 
Long-Term Investments and Other Assets
 
 
Goodwill and Intangible Assets, Net
 
 
 
 
 
Deferred Merchant Bookings and Accounts Payable, Merchant
 
Accounts Payable, Other
 
Deferred Revenue
 
Accrued Expenses and Other Current Liabilities
 
Borrowings
 
 
 
 
Other Long-Term Liabilities and Noncontrolling Interest
 
 
Common Stock
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Warrants
 
Stock-Based Awards
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Quantity of purchases reported as booked, net of cancellations. Packages purchased using our packages wizard, which by definition include a merchant hotel, are recorded as a single transaction.
Number of Transactions
 Total retail value of transactions booked for both agency and merchant transactions, recorded at the time of booking. Bookings include the total price due for travel, including taxes, fees and other charges, and are generally reduced for cancellations and refunds.
Gross Bookings
 Reflects results for travel products and services provided to customers of our leisure travel sites including Expedia branded sites, Hotels.com branded sites, Hotwire, the Expedia Affiliate Network and other leisure brands.
Leisure
 Reflects TripAdvisor.com and its international version sites, as well as acquired companies operated by TripAdvisor such as SmarterTravel and Kuxun.
TripAdvisor Media Network ("TripAdvisor")
 Reflects worldwide results for our managed corporate travel business.
Egencia
 Includes intercompany eliminations as well as unallocated corporate expenses.
Corporate
metrics  Reported on a stayed basis, and include both merchant and agency model hotel stays.
Worldwide Hotel
metrics  Reported on a booked basis and includes both merchant and agency air bookings.
Worldwide Air
Definitions of Non-GAAP Measures
Expedia, Inc. reports Operating Income Before Amortization, Adjusted Net Income, Adjusted EPS, Free Cash Flow and non-GAAP operating expenses (non-GAAP cost of revenue, non-GAAP selling and marketing, non-GAAP technology and content and non-GAAP general and administrative), all of which are supplemental measures to GAAP and are defined by the SEC as non-GAAP financial measures. These measures are among the primary metrics by which management evaluates the performance of the business, on which internal budgets are based and by which management is compensated. Management believes that investors should have access to the same set of tools that management uses to analyze our results. These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for or superior to GAAP. We endeavor to compensate for the limitation of the non-GAAP measures presented by also providing the most directly comparable GAAP measures and descriptions of the reconciling items and adjustments to derive the non-GAAP measures. The definition for OIBA was revised in the first quarter of 2009 and the definition for adjusted net income was revised in both the first quarter of 2009 and fourth quarter of 2010.
is defined as operating income plus: (1) stock-based compensation expense, including compensation expense related to certain subsidiary equity plans; (2) acquisition-related impacts, including (i) amortization of intangible assets and goodwill and intangible asset impairment, and (ii) gains (losses) recognized on changes in the value of contingent consideration arrangements; (3) certain infrequently occurring items, including restructuring; (4) charges incurred, if any, for monies that may be required to be paid in advance of litigation in certain occupancy tax proceedings; and (5) gains (losses) realized on revenue hedging activities that are included in other, net.
Operating Income Before Amortization ("OIBA")
We exclude the items listed above from OIBA because doing so provides investors greater insight into management decision making at Expedia. We believe OIBA is useful to investors because it is our primary internal metric by which management evaluates the performance of our business as a whole and our individual business segments, on which internal budgets are based, and by which management, including our Chief Executive Officer, is compensated. In addition, we believe that by excluding certain items, such as stock-based compensation and acquisition-related impacts, OIBA corresponds more closely to the cash operating income generated from our business and allows investors to gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting the ongoing cash earnings capabilities of our business, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced. Although depreciation is also a non-cash expense, it is included in OIBA because it is driven directly by the capital expenditure decisions made by management. OIBA has certain limitations in that it does not take into account the impact of certain expenses to our consolidated statements of operations. We endeavor to compensate for the limitation of the non-GAAP measure presented by also providing the comparable GAAP measure, GAAP financial statements, and descriptions of the reconciling items and adjustments, to derive the non-GAAP measure. However, OIBA should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for, or superior to, GAAP measures. Due to the high variability and difficulty in predicting certain items that affect net income / (loss), such as tax rates, stock price, foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates, Expedia, Inc. is unable to provide a reconciliation to net income / (loss) on a forward-looking basis without unreasonable efforts. We present a reconciliation of this non-GAAP financial measure to GAAP below.
 
generally captures all items on the statements of operations that occur in normal course operations and have been, or ultimately will be, settled in cash and is defined as net income/(loss) attributable to Expedia, Inc. plus net of tax: (1) stock-based compensation expense, including compensation expense related to certain subsidiary equity plans; (2) acquisition-related impacts, including (i) amortization of intangible assets, including as part of equity-method investments, and goodwill and intangible asset impairment, (ii) gains (losses) recognized on changes in the value of contingent consideration arrangements, and (iii) gains (losses) recognized on noncontrolling investment basis adjustments when we acquire controlling interests; (3) mark to market gains and losses on derivative instruments assumed at Spin-off; (4) currency gains or losses on U.S. dollar denominated cash or investments held by eLong; (5) certain other infrequently occurring items, including restructuring charges; (6) charges incurred, if any, for monies that may be required to be paid in advance of litigation in certain occupancy tax proceedings; (7) discontinued operations; (8) the noncontrolling interest impact of the aforementioned adjustment items and (9) unrealized gains (losses) on revenue hedging activities that are included in other, net. We believe Adjusted Net Income is useful to investors because it represents Expedia, Inc.'s combined results, taking into account depreciation, which management believes is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the impact of other non-cash expenses, infrequently occurring items and items not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses.
Adjusted Net Income
is defined as Adjusted Net Income divided by adjusted weighted average shares outstanding, which include dilution from options and warrants per the treasury stock method and include all shares relating to RSUs in shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS. This differs from the GAAP method for including RSUs, which treats them on a treasury method basis. Shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS purposes are therefore higher than shares outstanding for GAAP EPS purposes. We believe Adjusted EPS is useful to investors because it represents, on a per share basis, Expedia's consolidated results, taking into account depreciation, which we believe is an ongoing cost of doing business, as well as other items which are not allocated to the operating businesses such as interest expense, taxes, foreign exchange gains or losses, and minority interest, but excluding the effects of non-cash expenses not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses. Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted EPS have similar limitations as OIBA. In addition, Adjusted Net Income does not include all items that affect our net income / (loss) and net income / (loss) per share for the period. Therefore, we think it is important to evaluate these measures along with our consolidated statements of operations.
Adjusted EPS
is defined as net cash flow provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. Management believes Free Cash Flow is useful to investors because it represents the operating cash flow that our operating businesses generate, less capital expenditures but before taking into account other cash movements that are not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses, such as financing activities, foreign exchange or certain investing activities. Free Cash Flow has certain limitations in that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period, nor does it represent the residual cash flow for discretionary expenditures. Therefore, it is important to evaluate Free Cash Flow along with the consolidated statements of cash flows.
Free Cash Flow
exclude stock-based compensation related to expenses for stock options, restricted stock units and other equity compensation under applicable stock-based compensation accounting standards. Expedia, Inc. excludes stock-based compensation expenses from these measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses that we do not believe are necessarily reflective of our ongoing cash operating expenses and cash operating income. In addition, due to historical accounting charges and credits related to our spin-off from IAC, changes in forfeiture estimates and other events, stock-based compensation has been highly variable in some historical quarters, impairing year-on-year and quarter-to-quarter comparability. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types that companies can use when adopting applicable stock-based compensation accounting standards, management believes that providing non-GAAP financial measures that exclude stock-based compensation allows investors to make meaningful comparisons between our recurring core business operating results and those of other companies, as well as providing management with an important tool for financial operational decision making and for evaluating our own recurring core business operating results over different periods of time. There are certain limitations in using financial measures that do not take into account stock-based compensation, including the fact that stock-based compensation is a recurring expense and a valued part of employees' compensation. Therefore it is important to evaluate both our GAAP and non-GAAP measures. See the Note to the Consolidated Statements of Operations for stock-based compensation by line item.
Non-GAAP cost of revenue, selling and marketing, technology and content and general and administrative expenses excluding stock-based compensation
 
Tabular Reconciliations for Non-GAAP Measures
Operating Income Before Amortization
 
Adjusted Net Income & Adjusted EPS
 
 
Free Cash Flow
 
Non-GAAP cost of revenue, selling and marketing, general and administrative and technology and content expenses excluding stock-based compensation
 
Conference Call
Expedia, Inc. will audiocast a conference call to discuss fourth quarter and full year 2010 financial results and certain forward-looking information on Thursday, February 10, 2011 at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time (PT). The audiocast will be open to the public and available via . Expedia, Inc. expects to maintain access to the audiocast on the IR website for approximately three months subsequent to the initial broadcast.
www.expediainc.com/ir
Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. These forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations as of February 10, 2011 and assumptions which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. The use of words such as "intends" and "expects," among others, generally identify forward-looking statements. However, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements and may include statements relating to future revenues, expenses, margins, profitability, net income / (loss), earnings per share and other measures of results of operations and the prospects for future growth of Expedia, Inc.'s business.
Actual results and the timing and outcome of events may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, among others: declines or disruptions in the travel industry; changes in our relationships and contractual agreements with travel suppliers or supplier intermediaries; increases in the costs of maintaining and enhancing our brand awareness; changes in search engine algorithms and dynamics, or search engine disintermediation; our inability to adapt to technological developments or to maintain our existing technologies; our ability to expand successfully in international markets; changes in senior management; volatility in our stock price; changing laws, rules and regulations and legal uncertainties relating to our business; unfavorable new, or adverse application of existing, tax laws, rules or regulations; adverse outcomes in legal proceedings to which we are party; provisions in certain credit card processing agreements that could adversely impact our liquidity and financial positions;
 
fluctuations in our effective tax rate; our inability to access the capital markets when necessary; risks related to our long term indebtedness; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; risks related to the failure of counterparties to perform on financial obligations; potential liabilities resulting from our processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data; the integration of current and acquired businesses; the risk that our intellectual property is not protected from copying or use by others, including competitors; and other risks detailed in our public filings with the SEC, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.
Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking or other statements in this press release, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
About Expedia, Inc.
Expedia, Inc. is the largest online travel company in the world with a brand portfolio that includes more than 90 localized Expedia.com- and Hotels.com-branded sites; leading U.S. discount travel site Hotwire; leading agency hotel company Venere.com; Egencia, the world's fifth largest corporate travel management company; the world's largest travel community TripAdvisor Media Network; destination activities provider ExpediaLocalExpert; luxury travel specialist Classic Vacations; and China's second largest booking site eLong. The company delivers consumers value in leisure and business travel, drives incremental demand and direct bookings to travel suppliers, and provides advertisers vast opportunity to reach the most valuable audience of in-market travel consumers anywhere through TripAdvisor and Expedia Media Solutions. Expedia also powers bookings for some of the world's leading airlines and hotels, top consumer brands, high traffic websites, and thousands of active affiliates through Expedia Affiliate Network. (NASDAQ: EXPE)
Trademarks and logos mentioned herein are the property of their respective owners.
2011 Expedia, Inc. All rights reserved. CST: 2029030-50
Contacts
 
 



