FILE:EXPE/EXPE-8K-20121130163200.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 29, 2012 Pamela L. Coe was elected to the Board of Directors of Expedia, Inc. (""). Liberty Interactive Corporation (""), a stockholder of Expedia, has the contractual right to nominate two directors for election to the Board so long as certain stock ownership requirements are satisfied. Liberty has designated Ms. Coe as one such nominee, succeeding Dr. John C. Malone, whose resignation became effective immediately prior to Ms. Coe's election.
Expedia
Liberty
Ms. Coe joined Liberty in January of 2007 as Deputy General Counsel and currently serves as Vice President, Deputy General Counsel and Secretary, with responsibility for the management of a wide variety of legal, corporate governance, government affairs and compliance matters. Prior to joining Liberty, Ms. Coe provided legal services to Liberty on a consultancy basis for three years having previously served as Senior Counsel, Finance at Liberty's predecessor parent company, Tele-Communications, Inc. ("") for seven years. Prior to her tenure at TCI, Ms. Coe was a partner in a major San Francisco-based law firm, specializing in corporate, securities and banking law. Ms. Coe received her B.S. degree in finance from Arizona State University and her J.D. from the UCLA School of Law.
TCI
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: November 29, 2012


