FILE:EXPE/EXPE-8K-20120209160401.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On February 9, 2012, Expedia, Inc. announced its financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2011. The full text of this press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
Expedia makes reference to non-GAAP financial measures in the press release, and includes information regarding such measures in the press release.
Pursuant to General Instruction B.2. to Form 8-K, the information set forth in this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the ""), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, or incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the ""), or the Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Exchange Act
Securities Act
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On February 9, 2012 the Company announced that its Executive Committee, acting on behalf of its Board of Directors, has declared a quarterly cash dividend of $0.09 per share of outstanding common stock payable on March 30, 2012 to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 12, 2012.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: February 9, 2012
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
BELLEVUE, Wash.Feb. 9, 2012Expedia, Inc. (NASDAQ: EXPE) today announced financial results for our fourth quarter and year ended December 31, 2011.
 
 
 
 
Financial Summary & Operating Metrics (figures in $MMs except transactions and per share amounts)
 
*"Adjusted Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization," "Adjusted net income," "Adjusted EPS" and "Free cash flow" are non-GAAP measures as defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC"). Please see "Definitions of Non-GAAP Measures" and "Tabular Reconciliations for Non-GAAP Measures" on pages 11-14 herein for an explanation of non-GAAP measures used throughout this release. The definition for adjusted net income was revised in the fourth quarter of 2010 and fourth quarter of 2011.
Following the spin-off of TripAdvisor, Inc. on December 20, 2011, we introduced Adjusted EBITDA, a new non-GAAP financial measure. Going forward, we plan to regularly report Adjusted EBITDA and will no longer report Operating Income Before Amortization (OIBA).
Expedia's corporate website
Please refer to the Glossary in the Financial Information section on
for definitions of the business and financial terms discussed within this press release
.
 
Discussion of Results
The information presented within treats the domestic and international operations previously associated with Expedia's TripAdvisor Media Group as discontinued operations and accounts for the reverse stock split that occurred on December 20, 2011. The results include Expedia.com, Hotels.com, Hotwire.com; Expedia Affiliate Network, Classic Vacations, Expedia Local Expert, Expedia CruiseShipCenters, Egencia, eLong, and Venere Net SpA; in addition to the related international points of sale.
The operating results for the fourth quarter and the second half of 2011 exclude the Expedia websites contributed to the joint venture between Expedia and AirAsia, which is 50% owned by Expedia.
The results for the fourth quarter of 2011 include Traveldoo and Travelforce, which were acquired during the fourth quarter and second quarter of 2011, respectively. The collective impact of acquisitions on fourth quarter and full year 2011 results was not meaningful.
Gross Bookings, Revenue & Revenue Margins
Gross bookings increased 10% (10% excluding foreign exchange) for the fourth quarter of 2011 compared with the fourth quarter of 2010, primarily driven by 19% growth in hotel room nights through strong performances at Hotels.com brands, Expedia Affiliate Network, Hotwire and Egencia. Average daily room rates grew 2% for the quarter. Average airfares for the fourth quarter of 2011 were up 10% year-over-year which was almost entirely offset by an 8% decline in tickets sold. Domestic bookings increased 7% and international bookings increased 15% (15% excluding foreign exchange) for the fourth quarter of 2011. International bookings totaled $2.5 billion for the fourth quarter of 2011, accounting for 39% of worldwide bookings compared to 38% in the prior year.
Gross bookings increased 12% (10% excluding foreign exchange) for the year primarily driven by 18% growth in hotel room nights and 5% growth in hotel average daily rates. Average airfares for the year were up 11% versus 2010 which was offset by an 8% decline in tickets sold. Domestic bookings increased 6% and international bookings increased 23% (18% excluding foreign exchange) for the year. International bookings totaled $11 billion for 2011, accounting for 39% of worldwide bookings compared to 36% in the prior year.
Revenue increased 7% (8% excluding foreign exchange) for the fourth quarter of 2011, primarily driven by an increase in hotel room nights stayed partially offset by a decrease in revenue per room night. Domestic revenue increased 4% while international revenue increased 10% (14% excluding foreign exchange) for the quarter. International revenue equaled $333 million for the fourth quarter of 2011, representing 42% of worldwide revenue compared to 41% in the prior year.
Revenue increased 14% (11% excluding foreign exchange) for the year, primarily driven by an increase in hotel room nights stayed partially offset by a decline in air tickets sold. Domestic revenue increased 7% while international revenue increased 25% (20% excluding foreign exchange) for the year. International revenue equaled $1.5 billion for the year, representing 42% of worldwide revenue compared to 38% in the prior year.
Revenue as a percentage of gross bookings ("revenue margin") was 12.5% for the fourth quarter, a decrease of 34 basis points compared to the fourth quarter of 2010. The primary drivers were rising average air ticket prices (as our remuneration generally does not vary with the price of the ticket), changes in our hotel product mix as well as competitive pricing actions and lower net air supplier economics partially offset by growth in our higher margin hotel business. Revenue margin was 11.8% for the year, essentially flat compared to 2010.
Product & Services Detail  Fourth Quarter 2011
As a percentage of total worldwide revenue in the fourth quarter of 2011, hotel accounted for 73%, air accounted for 9% and all other revenue sources accounted for the remaining 18%.
Worldwide hotel revenue increased 12% for the fourth quarter driven by a 19% increase in room nights stayed partially offset by a 5% decrease in revenue per room night. Revenue per room night decreased primarily due to competitive pricing actions on hotel rooms and changes in our hotel product mix, impacts of foreign currency and accruals for loyalty programs at Expedia and Hotels.com partially offset by a 2% increase in average daily hotel rates.
Worldwide air revenue decreased 19% for the fourth quarter due to an 11% decrease in revenue per ticket and an 8% decrease in air tickets sold. The decrease in ticket volume was partially due to a 10% increase in average air ticket prices.
 
Revenue per ticket declined due to lower net supplier economics and the acceleration of merchant air revenue in fourth quarter 2010 partially offset by certain regional and interline consumer booking fees.
All other revenue (primarily car rentals, advertising revenue from our transaction websites, destination services and fees related to our corporate travel business) increased 2% for the fourth quarter.
Product & Services Detail  Full Year 2011
As a percentage of total worldwide revenue for 2011, hotel accounted for 72%, air accounted for 11% and all other revenue sources accounted for the remaining 17%.
Worldwide hotel revenue increased 18% for the year driven by an 18% increase in room nights stayed. Revenue per room night was essentially flat for the year.
Worldwide air revenue decreased 4% for the year due to an 8% decrease in air tickets sold partially offset by a 4% increase in revenue per ticket. The decrease in ticket volume was partially due to an 11% increase in average air ticket prices. Revenue per ticket increased for the year due to certain regional and interline consumer booking fees and performance-based incentives partially offset by lower net supplier economics.
All other revenue (primarily car rentals, advertising revenue from our transaction websites, destination services and fees related to our corporate travel business) increased 8% for the year.
Costs and Expenses
(Stock-based compensation expenses of $25 million for fourth quarter 2011 and $11 million for fourth quarter 2010 as well as $64 million and $53 million for the full year 2011 and 2010, respectively, have been excluded from all calculations and discussions below; some numbers may not add due to rounding.)
 
 
Cost of revenue (non-GAAP)
 
Selling and Marketing (non-GAAP)
 
 
 
Technology and Content (non-GAAP)
 
General and Administrative (non-GAAP)
 
Interest and Other
For the fourth quarter 2011, interest income, interest expense and other, net changed a minimal amount year over year. For 2011, interest income grew $13 million due to higher rate of return and average balances. Interest expense for 2011 increased $24 million compared to 2010. The increase was primarily due to $750 million of additional debt issued by the company in August 2010.
For 2011, other, net was a loss of $7 million versus a loss of $16 million in 2010. Losses for all periods were primarily comprised of foreign exchange losses. Foreign currency rate fluctuations negatively impacted our fourth quarter revenue growth rates primarily due to recent depreciation in the Pound, Canadian and Australian dollars as well as the Nordic currencies. Our revenue hedging program is designed to offset the book-to-stay impact on merchant hotel revenue. We include any realized gains or losses from our revenue hedging program in our calculation of Adjusted EBITDA.
Income Taxes
The effective tax rates on GAAP pre-tax income were 13.1% for the fourth quarter 2011 and 18.8% for 2011, compared with 27.1% and 28.3%, respectively in the prior year periods. The effective tax rate on pre-tax adjusted net income ("ANI") was 25.0% for the fourth quarter 2011 and 23.1% for 2011, compared with 28.9% and 29.1%, respectively in the prior year periods. The lower rates in the fourth quarter 2011 were primarily driven by an increase in earnings in jurisdictions outside the United States. To a lesser extent, the fourth quarter 2011 rates were also affected by a noncash income tax benefit from the release of a portion of our valuation allowance related to foreign deferred tax assets. The ANI rate was higher than the GAAP rate primarily as a result of higher pre-tax income on an adjusted basis. The lower rates for 2011 were primarily driven by an increase in earnings in jurisdictions outside the United States.
Balance Sheet, Cash Flows and Capitalization
Cash, cash equivalents, restricted cash and short-term investments totaled $1.4 billion at December 31, 2011. Of this amount, $312 million is held by our majority-owned subsidiaries, which is included in our consolidated financial statements but not considered available for our working capital purposes.
The total available under our $750 million unsecured revolving credit facility was $728 million at December 31, 2011. The only amounts applied to the revolver are outstanding letters of credit totaling $22 million. Long-term debt totaled $1.25 billion. In conjunction with the TripAdvisor spin-off, we redeemed $400 million 8.5% 2016 senior notes on January 19, 2012. In connection with the redemption, we incurred a pre-tax loss from early extinguishment of debt of approximately $38 million (or $25 million net of tax), which included an early redemption premium of $33 million and the write-off of $5 million of unamortized debt issuance and discount costs. This loss will be recorded within discontinued operations in the first quarter of 2012. The debt extinguishment was completed using approximately $400 million of cash distributed to us from TripAdvisor in connection with the spin-off.
For the year ended December 31, 2011, net cash provided by operating activities was $826 million and free cash flow was $618 million. Both measures include $232 million from net changes in operating assets and liabilities, primarily driven by a working capital benefit from our merchant hotel business. Free cash flow increased $149 million compared to the prior year primarily due to our working capital benefit.
 
Following the close of trading on the Nasdaq Stock Market on December 20, 2011, Expedia completed the spin-off of TripAdvisor, Inc. to Expedia stockholders. Expedia effected the spin-off by means of a reclassification of our capital stock that resulted in the holders of Expedia capital stock immediately prior to the time of effectiveness of the reclassification having the right to receive a proportionate amount of TripAdvisor capital stock. A one-for-two reverse stock split of outstanding Expedia capital stock occurred immediately prior to the spin-off.
At December 31, 2011, we had stock-based awards outstanding representing approximately 17 million shares of our common stock, consisting of stock options to purchase 15 million common shares with a $17.96 weighted average exercise price and weighted average remaining life of 5 years, and 2 million restricted stock units (RSUs). Assuming, among other things, no meaningful modifications of existing awards, incremental grants or adjustments to forfeiture estimates, we expect annual stock-based compensation expense will be less than $60 million in 2012.
Prior to the reverse split on December 20, 2011, we repurchased 3.1 million common shares for an aggregate purchase price of $83 million excluding transaction costs (an average of $27.10 per share). For the year, we repurchased 10.6 million shares for an aggregate purchase price of $283 million excluding transaction costs (an average of $26.60 per share). We have 8.8 million shares remaining repurchase capacity under our existing repurchase authorization.
On December 9, 2011 we paid a quarterly dividend of $19 million ($0.14 per common share on a reverse split adjusted basis). In addition, the Executive Committee of Expedia's Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.09 per share of outstanding common stock to be paid to stockholders of record as of the close of business on March 12, 2012, with a payment date of March 30, 2012. Based on our current shares outstanding we estimate the total payment for this quarterly dividend will be approximately $12 million. Future declaration of dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to the final determination of Expedia's Board of Directors.
 
Recent Highlights
Global Presence
 
 
 
 
 
Traveler Value Proposition and Innovation
 
 
 
 
 
Media, Advertising and Distribution
 
 
 
Supply Portfolio
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note: The metrics above exclude results from the joint venture between Expedia Worldwide and AirAsia beginning July 1, 2011 except where noted.
 
 
 Quantity of purchases reported as booked, net of cancellations. Packages purchased using our packages wizard, which by definition include a merchant hotel, are recorded as a single transaction.
Number of Transactions
 Total retail value of transactions booked for both agency and merchant transactions, recorded at the time of booking. Bookings include the total price due for travel, including taxes, fees and other charges, and are generally reduced for cancellations and refunds.
Gross Bookings
 Reflects results for travel products and services provided to customers of our leisure travel sites including Expedia branded sites, Hotels.com branded sites, Hotwire, the Expedia Affiliate Network and other leisure brands.
Leisure
 Reflects worldwide results for our managed corporate travel business.
Egencia
 Includes unallocated corporate expenses.
Corporate
metrics  Reported on a stayed basis, and include both merchant and agency model hotel stays.
Worldwide Hotel
metrics  Reported on a booked basis and includes both merchant and agency air bookings.
Worldwide Air
Definitions of Non-GAAP Measures
Expedia, Inc. reports Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income, Adjusted EPS, Free Cash Flow and non-GAAP operating expenses (non-GAAP cost of revenue, non-GAAP selling and marketing, non-GAAP technology and content and non-GAAP general and administrative), all of which are supplemental measures to GAAP and are defined by the SEC as non-GAAP financial measures. These measures are among the primary metrics by which management evaluates the performance of the business and on which internal budgets are based. Management believes that investors should have access to the same set of tools that management uses to analyze our results. These non-GAAP measures should be considered in addition to results prepared in accordance with GAAP, but should not be considered a substitute for or superior to GAAP. Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted EPS have certain limitations in that they do not take into account the impact of certain expenses to our consolidated statements of operations. We endeavor to compensate for the limitation of the non-GAAP measures presented by also providing the most directly comparable GAAP measures and descriptions of the reconciling items and adjustments to derive the non-GAAP measures. Adjusted EBITDA, Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted EPS also exclude certain items related to occupancy tax matters, which may ultimately be settled in cash, and we urge investors to review the detailed disclosure regarding these matters in the Management Discussion and Analysis, Legal Proceedings sections, as well as the notes to the financial statements, included in the Company's annual and quarterly reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The non-GAAP financial measures used by the Company may be calculated differently from, and therefore may not be comparable to, similarly titled measures used by other companies. The definition of Adjusted Net Income was revised in fourth quarter of 2010 and fourth quarter of 2011.
is defined as operating income plus: (1) stock-based compensation expense, including compensation expense related to certain subsidiary equity plans; (2) acquisition-related impacts, including (i) amortization of intangible assets and goodwill and intangible asset impairment, and (ii) gains (losses) recognized on changes in the value of contingent consideration arrangements; (3) certain infrequently occurring items, including restructuring; (4) items included in Legal reserves, occupancy tax and other, which includes reserves for potential settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy taxes, related court decisions and final settlements, and charges incurred, if any, for monies that may be required to be paid in advance of litigation in certain occupancy tax proceedings; (5) gains (losses) realized on revenue hedging activities that are included in other, net; and (6) depreciation.
Adjusted EBITDA
The above items are excluded from our Adjusted EBITDA measure because these items are noncash in nature, or because the amount and timing of these items is unpredictable, not driven by core operating results and renders comparisons with prior periods and competitors less meaningful. We believe Adjusted EBITDA is a useful measure for analysts and investors to evaluate our future on-going performance as this measure allows a more meaningful comparison of our performance and projected cash earnings with our historical results from prior periods and to the results of our competitors. Moreover, our management uses this measure internally to evaluate the performance of our business as a whole and our individual business segments. In addition, we believe that by excluding certain items, such as stock-based compensation and acquisition-related impacts, Adjusted EBITDA corresponds more closely to the cash operating income generated from our business and allows investors to gain an understanding of the factors and trends affecting the ongoing cash earnings capabilities of our business, from which capital investments are made and debt is serviced.
generally captures all items on the statements of operations that occur in normal course operations and have been, or ultimately will be, settled in cash and is defined as net income/(loss) attributable to Expedia, Inc. plus net of tax: (1) stock-based compensation expense, including compensation expense related to certain subsidiary equity plans; (2) acquisition-related impacts, including (i) amortization of intangible assets, including as part of equity-method
Adjusted Net Income
 
investments, and goodwill and intangible asset impairment, (ii) gains (losses) recognized on changes in the value of contingent consideration arrangements, and (iii) gains (losses) recognized on noncontrolling investment basis adjustments when we acquire controlling interests; (3) mark to market gains and losses on derivative instruments assumed at Spin-off; (4) currency gains or losses on U.S. dollar denominated cash or investments held by eLong; (5) certain other infrequently occurring items, including restructuring charges; (6) items included in Legal reserves, occupancy tax and other, which includes reserves for potential settlement of issues related to hotel occupancy taxes, related court decisions and final settlements, and charges incurred, if any, for monies that may be required to be paid in advance of litigation in certain occupancy tax proceedings; (7) discontinued operations; (8) the noncontrolling interest impact of the aforementioned adjustment items and (9) unrealized gains (losses) on revenue hedging activities that are included in other, net. We believe Adjusted Net Income is useful to investors because it represents Expedia, Inc.'s combined results, taking into account depreciation, which management believes is an ongoing cost of doing business, but excluding the impact of certain expenses, infrequently occurring items and items not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses.
is defined as Adjusted Net Income divided by adjusted weighted average shares outstanding, which include dilution from options and warrants per the treasury stock method and include all shares relating to RSUs in shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS. This differs from the GAAP method for including RSUs, which treats them on a treasury method basis. Shares outstanding for Adjusted EPS purposes are therefore higher than shares outstanding for GAAP EPS purposes. We believe Adjusted EPS is useful to investors because it represents, on a per share basis, Expedia's consolidated results, taking into account depreciation, which we believe is an ongoing cost of doing business, as well as other items which are not allocated to the operating businesses such as interest expense, taxes, foreign exchange gains or losses, and minority interest, but excluding the effects of certain expenses not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses. Adjusted Net Income and Adjusted EPS have similar limitations as Adjusted EBITDA. In addition, Adjusted Net Income does not include all items that affect our net income / (loss) and net income / (loss) per share for the period. Therefore, we think it is important to evaluate these measures along with our consolidated statements of operations.
Adjusted EPS
is defined as net cash flow provided by operating activities less capital expenditures. Management believes Free Cash Flow is useful to investors because it represents the operating cash flow that our operating businesses generate, less capital expenditures but before taking into account other cash movements that are not directly tied to the core operations of our businesses, such as financing activities, foreign exchange or certain investing activities. Free Cash Flow has certain limitations in that it does not represent the total increase or decrease in the cash balance for the period, nor does it represent the residual cash flow for discretionary expenditures. Therefore, it is important to evaluate Free Cash Flow along with the consolidated statements of cash flows.
Free Cash Flow
exclude stock-based compensation related to expenses for stock options, restricted stock units and other equity compensation under applicable stock-based compensation accounting standards. Expedia, Inc. excludes stock-based compensation expenses from these measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses that we do not believe are necessarily reflective of our ongoing cash operating expenses and cash operating income. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types that companies can use when adopting applicable stock-based compensation accounting standards, management believes that providing non-GAAP financial measures that exclude stock-based compensation allows investors to make meaningful comparisons between our recurring core business operating results and those of other companies, as well as providing management with an important tool for financial operational decision making and for evaluating our own recurring core business operating results over different periods of time. There are certain limitations in using financial measures that do not take into account stock-based compensation, including the fact that stock-based compensation is a recurring expense and a valued part of employees' compensation. Therefore it is important to evaluate both our GAAP and non-GAAP measures. See the Note to the Consolidated Statements of Operations for stock-based compensation by line item.
Non-GAAP cost of revenue, selling and marketing, technology and content and general and administrative expenses excluding stock-based compensation
 
Tabular Reconciliations for Non-GAAP Measures
Adjusted Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation & Amortization
 
Adjusted Net Income & Adjusted EPS
 
 
Free Cash Flow
 
Non-GAAP cost of revenue, selling and marketing, general and administrative and technology and content expenses excluding stock-based compensation
 
Conference Call
Expedia, Inc. will audiocast a conference call to discuss fourth quarter and full year 2011 financial results and certain forward-looking information on Thursday, February 9, 2012 at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time (PT). The audiocast will be open to the public and available via . Expedia, Inc. expects to maintain access to the audiocast on the IR website for approximately three months subsequent to the initial broadcast.
www.expediainc.com/ir
Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995
This press release contains "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements are not guarantees of future performance. These forward-looking statements are based on management's expectations as of February 9, 2012 and assumptions which are inherently subject to uncertainties, risks and changes in circumstances that are difficult to predict. The use of words such as "intends" and "expects," among others, generally identify forward-looking statements. However, these words are not the exclusive means of identifying such statements. In addition, any statements that refer to expectations, projections or other characterizations of future events or circumstances are forward-looking statements and may include statements relating to future revenues, expenses, margins, profitability, net income / (loss), earnings per share and other measures of results of operations and the prospects for future growth of Expedia, Inc.'s business.
Actual results and the timing and outcome of events may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements for a variety of reasons, including, among others: competitive risks; declines or disruptions in the travel industry; changes in our relationships and contractual agreements with travel suppliers or travel distribution partners; increases in the costs of maintaining and enhancing our brand awareness; changes in search engine algorithms and dynamics; our inability to adapt to technological developments or to maintain our existing technologies; our ability to expand successfully in international markets; changes in senior management; volatility in our stock price; changing laws, rules and regulations and legal uncertainties relating to our business; unfavorable new, or adverse application of or failure to comply with existing, laws, rules or regulations; adverse outcomes in legal proceedings to which we are party; provisions in certain credit card processing agreements that could adversely impact our liquidity and financial positions;
 
fluctuations in our effective tax rate; liquidity constraints or our inability to access the capital markets when necessary; risks related to our long term indebtedness; fluctuations in foreign exchange rates; risks related to the failure of counterparties to perform on financial obligations; potential liabilities resulting from our processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal data; the integration of current and acquired businesses; the risk that our intellectual property is not protected from copying or use by others, including competitors; risks related to interruption or lack of redundancy in our information systems; and other risks detailed in our public filings with the SEC, including our annual report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011.
Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking or other statements in this press release, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
About Expedia, Inc.
Expedia, Inc. is the largest online travel company in the world, with an extensive brand portfolio that includes some of the world's leading online travel brands, including:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The company delivers consumers value in leisure and business travel, drives incremental demand and direct bookings to travel suppliers, and provides advertisers the opportunity to reach a highly valuable audience of in-market travel consumers through Expedia Media Solutions. Expedia also powers bookings for some of the world's leading airlines and hotels, top consumer brands, high traffic websites, and thousands of active affiliates through Expedia Affiliate Network. For corporate and industry news and views, visit us at or follow us on Twitter @expediainc.
www.expediainc.com
Trademarks and logos are the property of their respective owners. 2012 Expedia, Inc. All rights reserved. CST: 2029030-50
 
 


