FILE:SJM/SJM-8K-20050609155434.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On June 6, 2005, the Executive Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of The J. M. Smucker Company approved awards of restricted shares to certain key employees of the Company, including executive officers. The number of restricted shares granted was based on the performance of the Company for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2005, and such grants were made under the Company's 1998 Equity and Performance Incentive Plan (the "Plan"). Pursuant to such approval, the Company granted 30,255 restricted shares to each of Timothy P. Smucker and Richard K. Smucker and 3,035 restricted shares to Paul Smucker Wagstaff. The following named executive officers of the Company also received an award of restricted shares as follows: Vincent C. Byrd  7,115 restricted shares; Fred A. Duncan  6,785 restricted shares; Richard G. Jirsa  4,825 restricted shares; John D. Milliken  4,955 restricted shares; and Richard F. Troyak - - 4,955 restricted shares.
     On June 6, 2005, the Committee also approved awards of deferred shares to certain key employees of the Company, including Mark T. Smucker, an executive officer of the Company (who received 3,035 deferred shares pursuant to this award). Deferred shares, instead of restricted shares, were awarded to these individuals to address adverse tax consequences relating to restricted shares in certain foreign countries. The number of deferred shares granted was based on the performance of the Company for the fiscal year ended April 30, 2005 and such grants were made under the Plan.
     The restricted shares and the deferred shares become non-forfeitable on the fourth anniversary of the date of grant, provided that if (1) the grantee dies or becomes permanently disabled, (2) at any time during the four-year period from the date of grant the grantee is age 60 with 10 years of service or (3) there is a change in control of the Company, all restricted shares and deferred shares will become non-forfeitable.
     In connection with these awards, the Plan was amended to clarify that the acceleration of the vesting of awards under the Plan, upon reaching reasonable age and service requirements approved by the Board of Directors of the Company, was permitted. It was confirmed with the New York Stock Exchange that this amendment to the Plan was not a material revision to the Plan requiring shareholder approval. A copy of the amended Plan is attached as an exhibit to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
     The Company entered into an award agreement with each grantee of restricted shares and deferred shares. Copies of the forms of the award agreements are attached as exhibits to this report and are incorporated herein by reference.
     In addition, on June 6, 2005, the Committee established the performance criteria to be used in determining the number of restricted shares to be granted in 2006. Targeted awards for this purpose were set by the Committee based on the achievement of specified goals relating to the earnings per share of the Company.
Table of Contents
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
     (c) Exhibits
Table of Contents
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: June 9, 2005
Table of Contents

EXHIBIT 10.1 THE J. M. SMUCKER COMPANY 1998 EQUITY AND PERFORMANCE INCENTIVE PLAN (AS AMENDED AND RESTATED EFFECTIVE AS OF JUNE 6, 2005) 1. PURPOSE. The purpose of the 1998 Equity and Performance Incentive Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective as of June 6, 2005) is to attract and retain consultants, officers and other key employees for The J. M. Smucker Company, an Ohio corporation, and its Subsidiaries and to provide to such persons incentives and rewards for superior performance. 2. DEFINITIONS. As used in this Plan, "Appreciation Right" means a right granted pursuant to Section 5 of this Plan, and shall include both Tandem Appreciation Rights and Free-Standing Appreciation Rights. "Base Price" means the price to be used as the basis for determining the Spread upon the exercise of a Free-Standing Appreciation Right and a Tandem Appreciation Right. "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company and, to the extent of any delegation by the Board to a committee (or subcommittee thereof) pursuant to Section 15 of this Plan, such committee (or subcommittee). "Change in Control" shall have the meaning provided in Section 11 of this Plan. "Common Shares" means common shares, without par value, of the Company or any security into which such Common Shares may be changed by reason of any transaction or event of the type referred to in Section 10 of this Plan. "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time. "Company" means The J. M. Smucker Company, an Ohio corporation. "Covered Employee" means a Participant who is, or is determined by the Board to be likely to become, a "covered employee" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code (or any successor provision). "Date of Grant" means the date specified by the Board on which a grant of Option Rights, Appreciation Rights, Performance Shares or Performance Units or a grant or sale of Restricted Shares or Deferred Shares shall become effective (which date shall not be earlier than the date on which the Board takes action with respect thereto). "Deferral Period" means the period of time during which Deferred Shares are subject to deferral limitations under Section 7 of this Plan.
"Deferred Shares" means an award made pursuant to Section 7 of this Plan of the right to receive Common Shares at the end of a specified Deferral Period. "Director" means a member of the Board of Directors of the Company. "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder, as such law, rules and regulations may be amended from time to time. "Evidence of Award" means an agreement, certificate, resolution or other type or form of writing or other evidence approved by the Committee which sets forth the terms and conditions of Option Rights, Appreciation Rights, Restricted Shares, Deferred Shares, Performance Shares or Performance Units. An Evidence of Award may be in any electronic medium, may be limited to a notation on the books and records of the Company and, with the approval of the Committee, need not be signed by a representative of the Company or a Participant. "Free-Standing Appreciation Right" means an Appreciation Right granted pursuant to Section 5 of this Plan that is not granted in tandem with an Option Right. "Incentive Stock Options" means Option Rights that are intended to qualify as "incentive stock options" under Section 422 of the Code or any successor provision. "Management Objectives" means the measurable performance objective or objectives established pursuant to this Plan for Participants who have received grants of Performance Shares or Performance Units or, when so determined by the Board, Option Rights, Appreciation Rights, Restricted Shares and dividend credits pursuant to this Plan. Management Objectives may be described in terms of Company-wide objectives or objectives that are related to the performance of the individual Participant or of the Subsidiary, division, department, region or function within the Company or Subsidiary in which the Participant is employed. The Management Objectives may be made relative to the performance of other corporations. The Management Objectives applicable to any award to a Covered Employee that is intended to comply with Section 162(m) of the Code shall be based on specified levels of or growth in one or more of the following criteria: 1. cash flow/net assets ratio; 2. debt/capital ratio; 3. return on total capital; 4. return on equity; 5. return on assets; 6. earnings per share; 7. revenue; 8. total return to shareholders; 9. margin performance; and 10. return on invested capital. 2
If the Committee determines that a change in the business, operations, corporate structure or capital structure of the Company, or the manner in which it conducts its business, or other events or circumstances render the Management Objectives unsuitable, the Committee may in its discretion modify such Management Objectives or the related minimum acceptable level of achievement, in whole or in part, as the Committee deems appropriate and equitable, except in the case of a Covered Employee where such action would result in the loss of the otherwise available exemption of the award under Section 162(m) of the Code. In such case, the Committee shall not make any modification of the Management Objectives or minimum acceptable level of achievement. "Market Value per Share" means, as of any particular date, (i) the closing sale price per Common Share as reported on new York Stock Exchange on the Date of Grant, or if there are no sales on such day, on the next preceding trading day during which a sale occurred, or (ii) if clause (i) does not apply, the fair market value of the Common Shares as determined by the Board. "Optionee" means the optionee named in an Evidence of Award evidencing an outstanding Option Right. "Option Price" means the purchase price payable on exercise of an Option Right. "Option Right" means the right to purchase Common Shares upon exercise of an option granted pursuant to Section 4 of this Plan. "Participant" means a person who is selected by the Board to receive benefits under this Plan and who is at the time a consultant, an officer, or other key employee of the Company or any one or more of its Subsidiaries, or who has agreed to commence serving in any of such capacities within 90 days of the Date of Grant. "Performance Period" means, in respect of a Performance Share or Performance Unit, a period of time established pursuant to Section 8 of this Plan within which the Management Objectives relating to such Performance Share or Performance Unit are to be achieved. "Performance Share" means a bookkeeping entry that records the equivalent of one Common Share awarded pursuant to Section 8 of this Plan. "Performance Unit" means a bookkeeping entry that records a unit equivalent to $1.00 awarded pursuant to Section 8 of this Plan. "Plan" means The J. M. Smucker Company 1998 Equity and Performance Incentive Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective as of June 6, 2005). "Restricted Shares" means Common Shares granted or sold pursuant to Section 6 of this Plan as to which neither the substantial risk of forfeiture nor the prohibition on transfers referred to in such Section 6 has expired. 3
"Spread" means the excess of the Market Value per Share on the date when an Appreciation Right is exercised, or on the date when Option Rights are surrendered in payment of the Option Price of other Option Rights, over the Option Price or Base Price provided for in the related Option Right or Free-Standing Appreciation Right, respectively. "Subsidiary" means a corporation, company or other entity (i) more than 50 percent of whose outstanding shares or securities (representing the right to vote for the election of directors or other managing authority) are, or (ii) which does not have outstanding shares or securities (as may be the case in a partnership, joint venture or unincorporated association), but more than 50 percent of whose ownership interest representing the right generally to make decisions for such other entity is, now or hereafter, owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Company except that for purposes of determining whether any person may be a Participant for purposes of any grant of Incentive Stock Options, "Subsidiary" means any corporation in which at the time the Company owns or controls, directly or indirectly, more than 50 percent of the total combined voting power represented by all classes of stock issued by such corporation. "Tandem Appreciation Right" means an Appreciation Right granted pursuant to Section 5 of this Plan that is granted in tandem with an Option Right. "Voting Power" means at any time, the total votes relating to the then-outstanding securities entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors. 3. SHARES AVAILABLE UNDER THE PLAN. (a) Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 3(b) and Section 10 of this Plan, the number of Common Shares that may be issued or transferred (i) upon the exercise of Option Rights or Appreciation Rights, (ii) as Restricted Shares and released from substantial risks of forfeiture thereof, (iii) as Deferred Shares, (iv) in payment of Performance Shares or Performance Units that have been earned or (v) in payment of dividend equivalents paid with respect to awards made under the Plan shall not exceed in the aggregate 3,793,140 Common Shares, plus any shares described in Section 3(b). Such shares may be shares of original issuance or treasury shares or a combination of the foregoing. The 3,793,140 maximum number of Common Shares described above consists of 1,323,140 Common Shares that were approved in 1998 (as adjusted to reflect the combination of the Company's former Class A and Class B common shares in 2000 and the merger of the Jif/Crisco businesses in 2002), and 2,470,000 Common Shares that were added by the Amendment and Restatement Effective as of September 1, 2002. (b) The number of shares available in Section 3(a) above shall be adjusted to account for shares relating to awards that expire, are forfeited or are transferred, surrendered or relinquished upon the payment of any Option Price by the transfer to the Company of Common Shares or upon satisfaction of any withholding amount. Upon payment in cash of the benefit provided by any award granted under this Plan, any shares that were covered by that award shall again be available for issue or transfer hereunder. (c) Notwithstanding anything in this Section 3, or elsewhere in this Plan, to the contrary and subject to adjustment as provided in Section 10 of this Plan, (i) the aggregate number of Common Shares actually issued or transferred by the Company upon the exercise of 4
Incentive Stock Options shall not exceed 3,793,140 Common Shares; (ii) no Participant shall be granted Option Rights and Appreciation Rights, in the aggregate, for more than 300,000 Common Shares during any calendar year; and (iii) the number of shares issued as Restricted Shares and Deferred Shares shall not exceed 925,295 Common Shares in total, consisting of 425,295 Common Shares provided for in 1998 (as adjusted for the combination and the Jif/Crisco transaction) and 500,000 Common Shares added by the Amendment and Restatement Effective as of September 1, 2002, and no more than 50 percent of the total number of Shares issuable as Restricted Shares and Deferred Shares under this Section 3(c)(iii) may be issued as Deferred Shares. (d) Notwithstanding any other provision of this Plan to the contrary, in no event shall any Participant in any calendar year receive an award of Performance Shares or Performance Units having an aggregate maximum value as of their respective Dates of Grant in excess of $1,000,000. 4. OPTION RIGHTS. The Board may, from time to time and upon such terms and conditions as it may determine, authorize the granting to Participants of options to purchase Common Shares. Each such grant may utilize any or all of the authorizations, and shall be subject to all of the requirements contained in the following provisions: (a) Each grant shall specify the number and class of Common Shares to which it pertains subject to the limitations set forth in Section 3 of this plan. (b) Each grant shall specify an Option Price per share, which may not be less than the Market Value per Share on the Date of Grant. (c) Each grant shall specify whether the Option Price shall be payable (i) in cash or by check acceptable to the Company, (ii) by the actual or constructive transfer to the Company of Common Shares owned by the Optionee for at least 6 months (or other consideration authorized pursuant to Section 4(d) having a value at the time of exercise equal to the total Option Price, or (iii) by a combination of such methods of payment. (d) The Board may determine, at or after the Date of Grant, that payment of the Option Price of any Option Right (other than an Incentive Stock Option) may also be made in whole or in part in the form of Restricted Shares or other Common Shares that are forfeitable or subject to restrictions on transfer, Deferred Shares, Performance Shares (based, in each case, on the Market Value per Share on the date of exercise), other Option Rights (based on the Spread on the date of exercise) or Performance Units. Unless otherwise determined by the Board at or after the Date of Grant, whenever any Option Price is paid in whole or in part by means of any of the forms of consideration specified in this Section 4(d), the Common Shares received upon the exercise of the Option Rights shall be subject to such risks of forfeiture or restrictions on transfer as may correspond to any that apply to the consideration surrendered, but only to the extent, determined with respect to the consideration surrendered, of (i) the number of shares or Performance Shares, (ii) the Spread of any unexercisable portion of Option Rights, or (iii) the stated value of Performance Units. 5
(e) Any grant may provide for deferred payment of the Option Price from the proceeds of sale through a broker on a date satisfactory to the Company of some or all of the shares to which such exercise relates. (f) Successive grants may be made to the same Participant whether or not any Option Rights previously granted to such Participant remain unexercised. (g) Each grant shall specify the period or periods of continuous service by the Optionee with the Company or any Subsidiary that is necessary before the Option Rights or installments thereof will become exercisable and may provide for the earlier exercise of such Option Rights in the event of a Change in Control. (h) Any grant of Option Rights may specify Management Objectives that must be achieved as a condition to the exercise of such rights. (i) Option Rights granted under this Plan may be (i) options, including, without limitation, Incentive Stock Options, that are intended to qualify under particular provisions of the Code, (ii) options that are not intended so to qualify, or (iii) combinations of the foregoing. (j) The Board may, at or after the Date of Grant of any Option Rights (other than Incentive Stock Options), provide for the payment of dividend equivalents to the Optionee on either a current or deferred or contingent basis or may provide that such equivalents shall be credited against the Option Price. (k) The exercise of an Option Right shall result in the cancellation on a share-for-share basis of any Tandem Appreciation Right authorized under Section 5 of this Plan. (l) No Option Right shall be exercisable more than 10 years from the Date of Grant. (m) Each grant of Option Rights shall be evidenced by an Evidence of Award, which shall contain such terms and provisions, consistent with this Plan, as the Board may approve. 5. APPRECIATION RIGHTS. (a) The Board may authorize the granting (i) to any Optionee, of Tandem Appreciation Rights in respect of Option Rights granted hereunder, and (ii) to any Participant, of Free-Standing Appreciation Rights. A Tandem Appreciation Right shall be a right of the Optionee, exercisable by surrender of the related Option Right, to receive from the Company an amount determined by the Board, which shall be expressed as a percentage of the Spread (not exceeding 100 percent) at the time of exercise. Tandem Appreciation Rights may be granted at any time prior to the exercise or termination of the related Option Rights; provided, however, that a Tandem Appreciation Right awarded in relation to an Incentive Stock Option must be granted concurrently with such Incentive Stock Option. A Free-Standing Appreciation Right shall be a right of the Participant to receive from the Company an amount 6
determined by the Board, which shall be expressed as a percentage of the Spread (not exceeding 100 percent) at the time of exercise. (b) Each grant of Appreciation Rights may utilize any or all of the authorizations, and shall be subject to all of the requirements, contained in the following provisions: (i) Any grant may specify that the amount payable on exercise of an Appreciation Right may be paid by the Company in cash, in Common Shares or in any combination thereof and may either grant to the Participant or retain in the Board the right to elect among those alternatives. (ii) Any grant may specify that the amount payable on exercise of an Appreciation Right may not exceed a maximum specified by the Board at the Date of Grant. (iii) Any grant may specify waiting periods before exercise and permissible exercise dates or periods. (iv) Any grant may specify that such Appreciation Right may be exercised only in the event of, or earlier in the event of, a Change in Control. (v) Any grant may provide for the payment to the Participant of dividend equivalents thereon in cash or Common Shares on a current, deferred or contingent basis. (vi) Any grant of Appreciation Rights may specify Management Objectives that must be achieved as a condition of the exercise of such Rights. (vii) Each grant of Appreciation Rights shall be evidenced by an Evidence of Award, which shall describe such Appreciation Rights, identify the related Option Rights (if applicable), state that such Appreciation Rights are subject to all the terms and conditions of this Plan, and contain such other terms and provisions, consistent with this Plan, as the Board may approve. (c) Any grant of Tandem Appreciation Rights shall provide that such Rights may be exercised only at a time when the related Option Right is also exercisable and at a time when the Spread is positive, and by surrender of the related Option Right for cancellation. (d) Regarding Free-standing Appreciation Rights only: (i) Each grant shall specify in respect of each Free-standing Appreciation Right a Base Price, which shall be equal to or greater or less than the Market Value per Share on the Date of Grant; 7
(ii) Successive grants may be made to the same Participant regardless of whether any Free-standing Appreciation Rights previously granted to the Participant remain unexercised; and (iii) No Free-standing Appreciation Right granted under this Plan may be exercised more than 10 years from the Date of Grant. 6. RESTRICTED SHARES. The Board may also authorize the grant or sale of Restricted Shares to Participants. Each such grant or sale may utilize any or all of the authorizations, and shall be subject to all of the requirements, contained in the following provisions: (a) Each such grant or sale shall constitute an immediate transfer of the ownership of Common Shares to the Participant in consideration of the performance of services, entitling such Participant to voting, dividend and other ownership rights, but subject to the substantial risk of forfeiture and restrictions on transfer hereinafter referred to. (b) Each such grant or sale may be made without additional consideration or in consideration of a payment by such Participant that is less than Market Value per Share at the Date of Grant. (c) Each such grant or sale shall provide that the Restricted Shares covered by such grant or sale shall be subject to a "substantial risk of forfeiture" within the meaning of Section 83 of the Code for a period of not less than 3 years to be determined by the Board at the Date of Grant and may provide for the earlier lapse of such substantial risk of forfeiture in the event of a Change in Control. (d) Each such grant or sale shall provide that during the period for which such substantial risk of forfeiture is to continue, the transferability of the Restricted Shares shall be prohibited or restricted in the manner and to the extent prescribed by the Board at the Date of Grant (which restrictions may include, without limitation, rights of repurchase or first refusal in the Company or provisions subjecting the Restricted Shares to a continuing substantial risk of forfeiture in the hands of any transferee). (e) Any grant of Restricted Shares may specify Management Objectives that, if achieved, will result in termination or early termination of the restrictions applicable to such shares. Each grant may specify in respect of such Management Objectives a minimum acceptable level of achievement and may set forth a formula for determining the number of Restricted Shares on which restrictions will terminate if performance is at or above the minimum level, but falls short of full achievement of the specified Management Objectives. (f) Any such grant or sale of Restricted Shares may require that any or all dividends or other distributions paid thereon during the period of such restrictions be automatically deferred and reinvested in additional Restricted Shares, which may be Subject to the same restrictions as the underlying award. 8
(g) Each grant or sale of Restricted Shares shall be evidenced by an Evidence of Award, which shall contain such terms and provisions, consistent with this Plan, as the Board may approve. The Board may require that certificates representing Restricted Shares shall be held in custody by the Company until all restrictions thereon shall have lapsed, together with a stock power or powers executed by the Participant in whose name such certificates are registered, endorsed in blank and covering such Shares. Such Shares shall bear an appropriate legend indicating the nature of the restrictions provided for in this Section. 7. DEFERRED SHARES. The Board may also authorize the granting or sale of Deferred Shares to Participants. Each such grant or sale may utilize any or all of the authorizations, and shall be subject to all of the requirements contained in the following provisions: (a) Each such grant or sale shall constitute the agreement by the Company to deliver Common Shares to the Participant in the future in consideration of the performance of services, but subject to the fulfillment of such conditions during the Deferral Period as the Board may specify. (b) Each such grant or sale may be made without additional consideration or in consideration of a payment by such Participant that is less than the Market Value per Share at the Date of Grant. (c) Each such grant or sale shall be subject to a Deferral Period of not less than 1 year, as determined by the Board at the Date of Grant, and may provide for the earlier lapse or other modification of such Deferral Period in the event of a Change in Control. (d) During the Deferral Period, the Participant shall have no right to transfer any rights under his or her award and shall have no rights of ownership in the Deferred Shares and shall have no right to vote them, but the Board may, at or after the Date of Grant, authorize the payment of dividend equivalents on such Shares on either a current or deferred or contingent basis, either in cash or in additional Common Shares. (e) Each grant or sale of Deferred Shares shall be evidenced by an Evidence of Award, which shall contain such terms and provisions, consistent with this Plan, as the Board may approve. 8. PERFORMANCE SHARES AND PERFORMANCE UNITS. The Board may also authorize the granting of Performance Shares and Performance Units that will become payable to a Participant upon achievement of specified Management Objectives. Each such grant may utilize any or all of the authorizations, and shall be subject to all of the requirements, contained in the following provisions: (a) Each grant shall specify the number of Performance Shares or Performance Units to which it pertains, which number may be subject to adjustment to reflect changes in compensation or other factors; provided, however, that no such adjustment shall be made in the case of a Covered Employee where such action would result in the loss of the otherwise available exemption of the award under Section 162(m) of the Code. 9
(b) The Performance Period with respect to each Performance Share or Performance Unit shall be such period of time (not less than 3 years), commencing with the Date of Grant as shall be determined by the Board at the time of grant which may be subject to earlier lapse or other modification in the event of a Change in Control as set forth in the Evidence of Award. (c) Any grant of Performance Shares or Performance Units shall specify Management Objectives which, if achieved, will result in payment or early payment of the award, and each grant may specify in respect of such specified Management Objectives a minimum acceptable level of achievement and shall set forth a formula for determining the number of Performance Shares or Performance Units that will be earned if performance is at or above the minimum level, but falls short of full achievement of the specified Management Objectives. The grant of Performance Shares or Performance Units shall specify that, before the Performance Shares or Performance Units shall be earned and paid, the Board must certify that the Management Objectives have been satisfied. (d) Each grant shall specify the time and manner of payment of Performance Shares or Performance Units that have been earned. Any grant may specify that the amount payable with respect thereto may be paid by the Company in cash, in Common Shares or in any combination thereof and may either grant to the Participant or retain in the Board the right to elect among those alternatives. (e) Any grant of Performance Shares may specify that the amount payable with respect thereto may not exceed a maximum specified by the Board at the Date of Grant. Any grant of Performance Units may specify that the amount payable or the number of Common Shares issued with respect thereto may not exceed maximums specified by the Board at the Date of Grant. (f) The Board may, at or after the Date of Grant of Performance Shares, provide for the payment of dividend equivalents to the holder thereof on either a current or deferred or contingent basis, either in cash or in additional Common Shares. (g) Each grant of Performance Shares or Performance Units shall be evidenced by an Evidence of Award, which shall state that such Performance Shares or Performance Units are subject to all the terms and conditions of this Plan, and contain such other terms and provisions, consistent with this Plan, as the Board may approve. 9. TRANSFERABILITY. (a) Except as otherwise determined by the Board, no Option Right, Appreciation Right or other derivative security granted under the Plan shall be transferable by a Participant other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution. Except as otherwise determined by the Board, Option Rights and Appreciation Rights shall be exercisable during the Optionee's lifetime only by him or her or by his or her guardian or legal representative. (b) The Board may specify at the Date of Grant that part or all of the Common Shares that are (i) to be issued or transferred by the Company upon the exercise of Option Rights 10
or Appreciation Rights, upon the termination of the Deferral Period applicable to Deferred Shares or upon payment under any grant of Performance Shares or Performance Units or (ii) no longer subject to the substantial risk of forfeiture and restrictions on transfer referred to in Section 6 of this Plan, shall be subject to further restrictions on transfer. 10. ADJUSTMENTS. The Board may make or provide for such adjustments in the numbers of Common Shares covered by outstanding Option Rights, Appreciation Rights, Deferred Shares, and Performance Shares granted hereunder, in the prices per share applicable to such Option Rights and Appreciation Rights and in the kind of shares covered thereby, as the Board, in its sole discretion, exercised in good faith, may determine is equitably required to prevent dilution or enlargement of the rights of Participants or Optionees that otherwise would result from (a) any stock dividend, stock split, combination of shares, recapitalization or other change in the capital structure of the Company, or (b) any merger, consolidation, spin-off, split-off, spin-out, split-up, reorganization, partial or complete liquidation or other distribution of assets, issuance of rights or warrants to purchase securities, or (c) any other corporate transaction or event having an effect similar to any of the foregoing. Moreover, in the event of any such transaction or event, the Board, in its discretion, may provide in substitution for any or all outstanding awards under this Plan such alternative consideration as it, in good faith, may determine to be equitable in the circumstances and may require in connection therewith the surrender of all awards so replaced. The Board may also make or provide for such adjustments in the numbers of shares specified in Section 3 of this Plan as the Board in its sole discretion, exercised in good faith, may determine is appropriate to reflect any transaction or event described in this Section 10; provided, however, that any such adjustment to the number specified in Section 3(c)(i) shall be made only if and to the extent that such adjustment would not cause any Option intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option to fail so to qualify. 11. CHANGE IN CONTROL. For purposes of this Plan, except as may be otherwise prescribed by the Board in an Evidence of Award, a "Change in Control" shall have occurred if at any time any of the following events shall have occurred: (a) A filing pursuant to any federal or state law in connection with any tender offer for shares of the Company (other than a tender offer by the Company); (b) The occurrence of or the signing of any agreement for a merger, consolidation, combination (as defined in Section 1701.01(Q), Ohio Revised Code), or majority share acquisition (as defined in Section 1701.01(R), Ohio Revised Code) involving the Company and as a result of which the holders of shares of the Company prior to the transaction become, or will become, by reason of the transaction, the holders of such number of shares of the surviving or acquiring corporation as entitle them to exercise less than one-third of the voting power of such corporation in the election of directors; (c) The signing of any agreement for the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company; (d) The adoption of any resolution of reorganization or dissolution of the Company by the shareholders; 11
(e) The occurrence of any other event or series of events, which, in the opinion of the Board of Directors, will, or is likely to, if carried out, result in a change of control of the Company; (f) If during any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Directors of the Company cease for any reason to constitute a majority thereof (unless the election, or the nomination for election by the Company's shareholders, of each Director of the Company first elected during such period was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Directors then still in office who were Directors of the Company at the beginning of any such period); or (g) The acquisition by any person (including a group within the meaning of Sections 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act other than the Company (or any of its Subsidiaries) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 20% or more of the combined voting power of the Company's then outstanding voting securities, unless such acquisition is approved by the vote of at least two-thirds of the Directors of the Company then in office. 12. FRACTIONAL SHARES. The Company shall not be required to issue any fractional Common Shares pursuant to this Plan. The Board may provide for the elimination of fractions or for the settlement of fractions in cash. 13. WITHHOLDING TAXES. To the extent that the Company is required to withhold federal, state, local or foreign taxes in connection with any payment made or benefit realized by a Participant or other person under this Plan, and the amounts available to the Company for such withholding are insufficient, it shall be a condition to the receipt of such payment or the realization of such benefit that the Participant or such other person make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for payment of the balance of such taxes required to be withheld, which arrangements (in the discretion of the Board) may include relinquishment of a portion of such benefit. The Company and a Participant or such other person may also make similar arrangements with respect to the payment of any taxes with respect to which withholding is not required. For options issued after June 30, 2000, the Company shall withhold no more than the minimum tax withholding required by law. 14. FOREIGN EMPLOYEES. In order to facilitate the making of any grant or combination of grants under this Plan, the Board may provide for such special terms for awards to Participants who are foreign nationals or who are employed by the Company or any Subsidiary outside of the United States of America as the Board may consider necessary or appropriate to accommodate differences in local law, tax policy or custom. Moreover, the Board may approve such supplements to or amendments, restatements or alternative versions of this Plan as it may consider necessary or appropriate for such purposes, without thereby affecting the terms of this Plan as in effect for any other purpose, and the Secretary or other appropriate officer of the Company may certify any such document as having been approved and adopted in the same manner as this Plan. No such special terms, supplements, amendments or restatements, however, shall include any provisions that are inconsistent with the terms of this Plan as then in effect 12
unless this Plan could have been amended to eliminate such inconsistency without further approval by the shareholders of the Company. 15 ADMINISTRATION OF THE PLAN. (a) This Plan shall be administered by the Board, which may from time to time delegate all or any part of its authority under this Plan to a committee of the Board (or subcommittee thereof) consisting of not less than three non-employee Directors appointed by the Board. A majority of the committee (or subcommittee) shall constitute a quorum, and the action of the members of the committee (or subcommittee) present at any meeting at which a quorum is present, or acts unanimously approved in writing, shall be the acts of the committee (or subcommittee). To the extent of any such delegation, references in this Plan to the Board shall be deemed to be references to any such committee or subcommittee. (b) The interpretation and construction by the Board of any provision of this Plan or of any Evidence of Award and any determination by the Board pursuant to any provision of this Plan or of any such Evidence of Award shall be final and conclusive. No member of the Board shall be liable for any such action or determination made in good faith. 16 AMENDMENTS, ETC. (a) The Board may at any time and from time to time amend the Plan in whole or in part; provided, however, that (i) any amendment which must be approved by the shareholders of the Company in order to comply with applicable law or a specific rule of the New York Stock Exchange, or if the Common Shares are not traded on the New York Stock Exchange, the principal national securities exchange upon which the Common Shares are traded or quoted, shall not be effective unless and until such approval has been obtained, and (ii) approval by a majority of the votes cast at a properly and duly called meeting of the shareholders of the Company shall be required for any amendment that would empower the Board either (x) to in any way modify the Option Price of an Option Right other than as provided in Section 10 of this Plan, or (y) to materially modify or waive any conditions or restrictions on or Management Objectives relating to any Deferred Shares, Restricted Shares, Performance Shares, or Performance Units issued under this Plan. Presentation of this Plan or any amendment hereof for shareholder approval shall not be construed to limit the Company's authority to offer similar or dissimilar benefits under other plans without shareholder approval. (b) The Board shall not, without the further approval of the shareholders of the Company, authorize the amendment of any outstanding Option Right to reduce the Option Price. Furthermore, no Option Right shall be canceled and replaced with awards having a lower Option Price without further approval of the shareholders of the Company. This Section 16(b) is intended to prohibit the repricing of "underwater" Option Rights and shall not be construed to prohibit the adjustments provided for in Section 10 of this Plan. (c) The Board also may permit Participants to elect to defer the issuance of Common Shares or the settlement of awards in cash under the Plan pursuant to such rules, procedures or programs as it may establish for purposes of this Plan. The Board also may provide that deferred issuances and settlements include the payment or crediting of dividend equivalents or interest on the deferral amounts. 13
(d) The Board may condition the grant of any award or combination of awards authorized under this Plan on the surrender or deferral by the Participant of his or her right to receive a cash bonus or other compensation otherwise payable by the Company or a Subsidiary to the Participant. (e) In case of termination of employment by reason of death, disability or normal or early retirement, or in the case of hardship or other special circumstances (including reaching reasonable age and service requirements approved by the Board from time to time), of a Participant who holds an Option Right or Appreciation Right not immediately exercisable in full, or any Restricted Shares as to which the substantial risk of forfeiture or the prohibition or restriction on transfer has not lapsed, or any Deferred Shares as to which the Deferral Period has not been completed, or any Performance Shares or Performance Units which have not been fully earned, or who holds Common Shares subject to any transfer restriction imposed pursuant to Section 9(b) of this Plan, the Board may, in its sole discretion, provide for special vesting criteria or accelerate the time at which such Option Right or Appreciation Right may be exercised or the time at which such substantial risk of forfeiture or prohibition or restriction on transfer will lapse or the time when such Deferral Period will end or the time at which such Performance Shares or Performance Units will be deemed to have been fully earned or the time when such transfer restriction will terminate or may waive any other limitation or requirement under any such award. (f) This Plan shall not confer upon any Participant any right with respect to continuance of employment or other service with the Company or any Subsidiary, nor shall it interfere in any way with any right the Company or any Subsidiary would otherwise have to terminate such Participant's employment or other service at any time. (g) To the extent that any provision of this Plan would prevent any Option Right that was intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option from qualifying as such, that provision shall be null and void with respect to such Option Right. Such provision, however, shall remain in effect for other Option Rights and there shall be no further effect on any provision of this Plan. Approved by Shareholders 8/13/02 (effective 9/1/02) Amended and Restated by the Executive Compensation Committee 10/29/02 and 06/06/05 14

EXHIBIT 10.2 THE J. M. SMUCKER COMPANY RESTRICTED SHARES AGREEMENT WHEREAS, ___________________ (the "Grantee") is an employee of The J. M. Smucker Company, an Ohio corporation (the "Company"); and WHEREAS, the execution of an agreement in the form hereof (this "Agreement") has been authorized by a resolution of the Executive Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of the Company, pursuant to the Company's 1998 Equity and Performance and Incentive Plan as amended (the "Plan"), as of __________________ (the "Date of Grant"); NOW, THEREFORE, the Company hereby grants to the Grantee __________ Restricted Shares (as defined in the Plan) (the "Restricted Shares"), effective as of the Date of Grant, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and the following additional terms, conditions, limitations and restrictions. ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS All terms used herein with initial capital letters and not otherwise defined herein that are defined in the Plan shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Plan. ARTICLE II CERTAIN TERMS OF THE RESTRICTED SHARES 1. Issuance of Restricted Shares. The Restricted Shares covered by this Agreement shall be issued to the Grantee effective upon the Date of Grant. The Common Shares subject to this grant of Restricted Shares shall be fully paid and nonassessable and shall be, as determined by the Company, either represented by a certificate or certificates or by electronic direct registration, registered in the Grantee's name, and endorsed with an appropriate legend referring to the restrictions hereinafter set forth. 2. Restrictions on Transfer of Shares. The Common Shares subject to this grant of Restricted Shares may not be sold, exchanged, assigned, transferred, pledged, encumbered or otherwise disposed of by the Grantee, except to the Company, until the Restricted Shares have become nonforfeitable as provided in Section 3 hereof; provided, however, that the Grantee's rights with respect to such Common Shares may be transferred by will or pursuant to the laws of descent and distribution. Any purported transfer or encumbrance in violation of the provisions of this Section 2 of this Article II shall be void, and the other party to any such purported transaction shall not obtain any rights to or interest in such Common Shares. The Company in its sole discretion, when and as permitted by the Plan, may waive the restrictions on transferability with respect to all or a portion of the Common Shares subject to this grant of Restricted Shares.
3. Vesting of Restricted Shares. (a) All of the Restricted Shares covered by this Agreement shall become nonforfeitable as follows: [INSERT VESTING SCHEDULE], if the Grantee shall have remained in the continuous employ of the Company or a Subsidiary during that period. (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3(a) of this Article II, all of the Restricted Shares covered by this Agreement shall immediately become nonforfeitable (i) if the Grantee dies or becomes permanently disabled while in the employ of the Company or a Subsidiary during the [INSERT VESTING PERIOD] period from the Date of Grant, (ii) if, at any time during the [INSERT VESTING PERIOD] period from the Date of Grant, the Grantee is age 60 with at least ten years of service with the Company, or (iii) if a Change in Control occurs during the [INSERT VESTING PERIOD] period from the Date of Grant while the Grantee is employed by the Company or a Subsidiary. (c) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3(a) of this Article II, if the Grantee leaves the employ of the Company or a Subsidiary within [INSERT VESTING PERIOD] from the Date of Grant under circumstances determined by the Committee to be for the convenience of the Company, the Committee may, when and as permitted by the Plan, determine that all of the Restricted Shares covered by this Agreement shall become nonforfeitable. 4. Forfeiture of Shares. The Restricted Shares shall be forfeited, except as otherwise provided in Section 3 above, if the Grantee ceases to be employed by the Company or a Subsidiary prior to [INSERT VESTING PERIOD] years from the Date of Grant. In the event of a forfeiture, any certificate(s) representing the Restricted Shares or any evidence of direct registration representing the Restricted Shares covered by this Agreement shall be cancelled. 5. Dividend, Voting and Other Rights. (a) Except as otherwise provided herein, from and after the Date of Grant, the Grantee shall have all of the rights of a shareholder with respect to the Restricted Shares covered by this Agreement, including the right to vote such Restricted Shares and receive any dividends that may be paid thereon; provided, however, that any additional Common Shares or other securities that the Grantee may become entitled to receive pursuant to a stock dividend, stock split, combination of shares, recapitalization, merger, consolidation, separation, or reorganization or any other change in the capital structure of the Company shall be subject to the same restrictions as the Restricted Shares covered by this Agreement. (a) Cash dividends on the Restricted Shares covered by this Agreement shall be paid to the Grantee pursuant to the Company's Amended Articles of Incorporation and reported on the Grantee's annual wage and tax statement (Form W-2) as compensation. 6. Retention of Stock Certificate(s) by the Company. Certificates representing the Common Shares, if any, will be held in custody by the Company -2-
together with a stock power endorsed in blank by the Grantee with respect thereto, until those shares have become nonforfeitable in accordance with Section 3. ARTICLE III GENERAL PROVISIONS 1. Compliance with Law. The Company shall make reasonable efforts to comply with all applicable federal and state securities laws; provided, however, notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Company shall not be obligated to issue any Common Shares pursuant to this Agreement if the issuance thereof would result in a violation of any such law. 2. Withholding Taxes. To the extent that the Company or any Subsidiary is required to withhold any federal, state, local or foreign tax in connection with any delivery of Common Shares pursuant to this Agreement, and the amounts available to the Company or such Subsidiary are insufficient, it shall be a condition to the receipt of such delivery that the Grantee make arrangements satisfactory to the Company or such Subsidiary for payment of the balance of such taxes required to be withheld. This tax withholding obligation shall be satisfied by the Company withholding Common Shares otherwise deliverable pursuant to this award in order to satisfy the minimum tax withholding amount permissible under the method that results in the least amount withheld. 3. Continuous Employment. For purposes of this Agreement, the continuous employment of the Grantee with the Company or a Subsidiary shall not be deemed to have been interrupted, and the Grantee shall not be deemed to have ceased to be an employee of the Company or Subsidiary, by reason of the (i) transfer of his employment among the Company and its Subsidiaries or (ii) a leave of absence approved by the Board or the Committee. 4. Right to Terminate Employment. No provision of this Agreement shall limit in any way whatsoever any right that the Company or a Subsidiary may otherwise have to terminate the employment of the Grantee at any time. Nothing herein shall be deemed to create a contract or a right to employment with respect to the Grantee. 5. Relation to Other Benefits. Any economic or other benefit to the Grantee under this Agreement or the Plan shall not be taken into account in determining any benefits to which the Grantee may be entitled under any profit-sharing, retirement, or other benefit or compensation plan maintained by the Company or a Subsidiary and shall not affect the amount of any life insurance coverage available to any beneficiary under any life insurance plan covering employees of the Company or a Subsidiary. 6. Amendments. Any amendment to the Plan shall be deemed to be an amendment to this Agreement to the extent that the amendment is applicable hereto; provided, however, that no amendment shall adversely affect the rights of the Grantee under this Agreement without the Grantee's consent. -3-
7. Severability. In the event that one or more of the provisions of this Agreement shall be invalidated for any reason by a court of competent jurisdiction, any provision so invalidated shall be deemed to be separable form the other provisions hereof, and the remaining provisions hereof shall continue to be valid and fully enforceable. 8. Relation to Plan. This Agreement is subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan. In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, the Plan shall govern. The Board acting pursuant to the Plan, as constituted from time to time, shall, except as expressly provided otherwise herein, have the right to determine any questions which arise in connection with the grant of the Restricted Shares. 9. Governing Law. This Agreement is made under, and shall be construed in accordance with, the internal substantive laws of the State of Ohio. This Agreement is executed by the Company as of the ____ day of ______________. THE J. M. SMUCKER COMPANY By: ------------------------------- Name: M. Ann Harlan Title: Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary The undersigned hereby acknowledges receipt of an executed original of this Restricted Shares Agreement, together with a copy of the Plan, and accepts the award of Restricted Shares granted hereunder on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan. Date: ----------------------------- --------------------------- Grantee -4-

EXHIBIT 10.3 THE J. M. SMUCKER COMPANY DEFERRED SHARES AGREEMENT (FOR NON-U.S. TAXPAYERS) WHEREAS, _________________ (the "Grantee") is an employee of The J. M. Smucker Company, as Ohio corporation (the "Company"); and WHEREAS, the execution of an agreement in the form hereof (this "Agreement") has been authorized by a resolution of the Executive Compensation Committee (the "Committee") of the Board of Directors of the Company, pursuant to the Company's 1998 Equity and Performance Incentive Plan (as Amended and Restated) (the "Plan"), as of _________________, (the "Date of Grant"); NOW, THEREFORE, the Company hereby grants to the Grantee ________________ Deferred Shares (as defined in the Plan) (the "Deferred Shares"), effective as of the Date of Grant, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and the following additional terms, conditions, limitations and restrictions. ARTICLE I DEFINITIONS All terms used herein with initial capital letters and not otherwise defined herein that are defined in the Plan shall have the meanings assigned to them in the Plan. ARTICLE II CERTAIN TERMS OF THE DEFERRED SHARES 1. Grant of Deferred Shares. The Deferred Shares covered by this Agreement are granted to the Grantee effective on the Date of Grant and are subject to and granted upon the terms, conditions and restrictions set forth in this Agreement and in the Plan. The Deferred Shares shall become vested in accordance with Section 3 hereof. Each Deferred Share shall represent one hypothetical share of Common Stock, without par value of the Company (the "Common Stock") and shall at all times be equal in value to one share of Common Stock. The Deferred Shares will be credited to the Grantee in an account established for the Grantee until payment in accordance with Section 4 hereof. 2. Restrictions on Transfer of Deferred Shares. Neither the Deferred Shares granted hereby nor any interest therein or in the Common Stock related thereto shall be transferable prior to payment other than by will or pursuant to the laws of descent and distribution (or to a designated beneficiary in the event of the Grantee's death).
3. Vesting of Deferred Shares. (a) The Deferred Shares shall become vested as follows: [INSERT VESTING SCHEDULE] (the "Vesting Date") if the Grantee shall have remained in the continuous employ of the Company or a subsidiary during that period. Any Deferred Shares not vested will be forfeited, except as provided in Section 3(b) below, if the Grantee ceases to be continuously employed by the Company prior to the Vesting Date. (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of Section 3(a), all of the Deferred Shares shall immediately become non-forfeitable (each, a "Vesting Event") (i) if the Grantee dies or becomes permanently disabled while in the employ of the Company or a Subsidiary during the [INSERT VESTING PERIOD] period from the Date of Grant, (ii) if, at any time during the [INSERT VESTING PERIOD] period from the Date of Grant, the Grantee is age 60 with at least ten years of service with the Company, or (iii) if a Change in Control occurs during the [INSERT VESTING PERIOD] period from the Date of Grant while the Grantee is employed by the Company or a Subsidiary. 4. Issuance of the Common Stock. (a) The Company will issue to the Grantee the Common Stock underlying the vested Deferred Shares on the Vesting Date or, if earlier, upon the occurrence of a Vesting Event. (b) Except to the extent permitted by the Company and the Plan, no Common Stock may be issued to the Grantee at a time earlier than otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement. (c) The Company's obligations to the Grantee with respect to the Deferred Shares will be satisfied in full upon the issuance of shares of Common Stock corresponding to such Deferred Shares. 5. Dividend, Voting and Other Rights. (a) The Grantee shall have no rights of ownership in the Deferred Shares and shall have no right to dividends and no right to vote Deferred Shares until the date on which the Common Stock underlying the Deferred Shares is transferred to the Grantee pursuant to Section 4 above. (b) The obligations of the Company under this Agreement will be merely that of an unfunded and unsecured promise of the Company to deliver shares of Common Stock in the future, and the rights of the Grantee will be no greater than that of an unsecured general creditor. No assets of the Company will be held or set aside as security for the obligations of the Company under this Agreement. 2
ARTICLE III GENERAL PROVISIONS 1. Adjustments. The number of shares of Common Stock issuable pursuant to the Deferred Shares is subject to adjustment as provided in Section 10 of the Plan. 2. Compliance with Law. The Company shall make reasonable efforts to comply with all applicable federal and state securities laws; provided, however, notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, the Company shall not be obligated to issue any shares of Common Stock pursuant to this Agreement if the issuance thereof would result in a violation of any such law. 3. Compliance with Section 409A of the Code. To the extent that the Grantee is or becomes subject to payment of U.S. tax, then appropriate adjustments may be made if necessary to make the awards comply with Section 409A of the Code. Reference to Section 409A of the Code will also include any proposed, temporary or final regulations, or any other guidance, promulgated with respect to such Section by the U.S. Department of the Treasury or the Internal Revenue Service. 4. Withholding Taxes. To the extent that the Company or any Subsidiary is required to withhold any federal, state, local or foreign tax in connection with the Deferred Shares or the issuance of Common Shares pursuant to this Agreement, and the amounts available to the Company or such Subsidiary are insufficient, it shall be a condition to the issuance of such Common Shares that the Grantee make arrangements satisfactory to the Company or such Subsidiary for payment of the balance of such taxes required to be withheld. This tax withholding obligation shall be satisfied by the Company withholding Common Shares otherwise issuable pursuant to this award in order to satisfy the minimum tax withholding amount permissible under the method that results in the least amount withheld. 5. Continuous Employment. For purposes of this Agreement, the continuous employment of the Grantee with the Company or a Subsidiary shall not be deemed to have been interrupted, and the Grantee shall not be deemed to have ceased to be an employee of the Company or Subsidiary, by reason of the (i) transfer of his employment among the Company and its Subsidiaries or (ii) a leave of absence approved by the Board or the Committee. 6. Right to Terminate Employment. No provision of this Agreement shall limit in any way whatsoever any right that the Company or a Subsidiary may otherwise have to terminate the employment of the Grantee at any time. Nothing herein shall be deemed to create a contract or a right to employment with respect to the Grantee. 7. Relation to Other Benefits. Any economic or other benefit to the Grantee under this Agreement or the Plan shall not be taken into account in determining any benefits to which the Grantee may be entitled under any profit-sharing, retirement, or other benefit or compensation plan maintained by the Company or a Subsidiary and shall not affect the amount of any life insurance coverage available to any beneficiary under any life insurance plan covering employees of the Company or a Subsidiary. 3
8. Amendments. Any amendment to the Plan shall be deemed to be an amendment to this Agreement to the extent that the amendment is applicable hereto; provided, however, that no amendment shall adversely affect the rights of the Grantee under this Agreement without the Grantee's consent. 9. Severability. In the event that one or more of the provisions of this Agreement shall be invalidated for any reason by a court of competent jurisdiction, any provision so invalidated shall be deemed to be separable from the other provisions hereof, and the remaining provisions hereof shall continue to be valid and fully enforceable. 10. Relation to Plan. This Agreement is subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan. In the event of any inconsistency between the provisions of this Agreement and the Plan, the Plan shall govern. The Board acting pursuant to the Plan, as constituted from time to time, shall, except as expressly provided otherwise herein, have the right to determine any questions which arise in connection with the grant of the Deferred Shares. 11. Governing Law. This Agreement is made under, and shall be construed in accordance with, the internal substantive laws of the State of Ohio. This Agreement is executed by the Company as of the ____ day of ___________. THE J. M. SMUCKER COMPANY By: --------------------------------- Name: M. Ann Harlan Title: Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary The undersigned hereby acknowledges receipt of an executed original of this Deferred Shares Agreement, together with a copy of the Plan and accepts the award of Deferred Shares granted hereunder on the terms and conditions set forth herein and in the Plan. Date: ------------------- ------------------------------- Grantee 4


