FILE:SJM/SJM-8K-20060821164011.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
     Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
      Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
      Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
      Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
     On August 17, 2006, the shareholders of The J. M. Smucker Company (the ""), upon recommendation of the Company's Board of Directors (the ""), approved The J. M. Smucker Company 2006 Equity Compensation Plan (the ""). The Executive Compensation Committee of the Board adopted the 2006 Equity Plan on June 13, 2006, subject to shareholder approval.
Company
Board
2006 Equity Plan
     The 2006 Equity Plan authorizes the Board (or, pursuant to delegation of authority by the Board, a committee or subcommittee of the Board, or one or more officers of the Company) to provide equity-based compensation in the form of a variety of awards, including stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance shares, performance units, incentive awards and other stock-based awards for the purpose of attracting and retaining directors, consultants, officers and other employees of the Company and its subsidiaries and providing such persons incentives and rewards for performance. Total awards under the 2006 Equity Plan are limited to an aggregate of 2,500,000 Common Shares, subject to adjustment as provided in the 2006 Equity Plan.
     The description of the 2006 Equity Plan is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the 2006 Equity Plan, which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 to this Form 8-K and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: August 21, 2006
 

 
Exhibit 10.1
      1. The purpose of The J. M. Smucker Company 2006 Equity Compensation Plan is to attract and retain Directors, consultants, officers and other employees of The J. M. Smucker Company, an Ohio corporation, and its Subsidiaries and to provide to such persons incentives and rewards for performance.
Purpose.
      2. As used in this Plan,
Definitions.
 
 
      If the Board determines that a change in the business, operations, corporate structure or capital structure of the Company, or the manner in which it conducts its business, or other events or circumstances render the Management Objectives unsuitable, the Board may in its discretion modify such Management Objectives or the related levels of achievement, in whole or in part, as the Board deems appropriate and equitable, except in the case of a Covered Employee where such action would result in the loss of the otherwise available exemption of the award under Section 162(m) of the Code. In such case, the Board will not make any modification of the Management Objectives or the level or levels of achievement with respect to such Covered Employee.
 
      3. 
Shares Available Under the Plan.
 
      4. The Board may, from time to time and upon such terms and conditions as it may determine, authorize the granting to Participants of options to purchase Common Shares. Each such grant will be subject to all of the requirements contained in the following provisions:
Option Rights.
 
      5. 
Appreciation Rights.
 
      6. The Board may also authorize the grant or sale of Restricted Stock to Participants. Each such grant or sale will be subject to all of the requirements contained in the following provisions:
Restricted Stock.
 
      7. The Board may also authorize the granting or sale of Restricted Stock Units (which may also be referred to as Deferred Stock Units) to Participants. Each such grant or sale will be subject to all of the requirements contained in the following provisions:
Restricted Stock Units.
 
      8. The Board may also authorize the granting of Performance Shares and Performance Units that will become payable to a Participant upon achievement of specified Management Objectives during the Performance Period. Each such grant will be subject to all of the requirements contained in the following provisions:
Performance Shares and Performance Units.
      9. The Board may, from time to time and upon such terms and conditions as it may determine, authorize the granting to Nonemployee Directors Option Rights, Appreciation Rights or other awards contemplated by Section 10 of this Plan and may also authorize the grant or sale of Common Shares, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units (which may also be referred to as Deferred Stock
Awards to Nonemployee Directors.
 
Units) to Nonemployee Directors. Each grant of an award to a Nonemployee Director will be upon such terms and conditions as approved by the Board, will not be required to be subject to any minimum vesting period, and will be evidenced by an Evidence of Award in such form as will be approved by the Board. Each grant will specify in the case of an Option Right an Option Price per share, and in the case of a Free-Standing Appreciation Right, a Base Price per share, which will not be less than the Market Value per Share on the Date of Grant. Each Option Right and Free-Standing Appreciation Right granted under the Plan to a Nonemployee Director will expire not more than 10 years from the Date of Grant and will be subject to earlier termination as hereinafter provided. If a Nonemployee Director subsequently becomes an employee of the Company or a Subsidiary while remaining a member of the Board, any award held under this Plan by such individual at the time of such commencement of employment will not be affected thereby. Nonemployee Directors, pursuant to this Section 9, may be awarded, or may be permitted to elect to receive, pursuant to procedures established by the Board, all or any portion of their annual retainer, meeting fees or other fees in Common Shares, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or other awards under the Plan in lieu of cash.
      10. 
Other Awards.
      11. The Board is authorized to grant Incentive Awards, which awards shall represent a conditional right to receive Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units upon achievement of pre-established Management Objectives, subject to the following terms and conditions:
Incentive Awards.
 
      12. 
Administration of the Plan.
      13. The Board may make or provide for such adjustments in the numbers of Common Shares covered by outstanding Option Rights, Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares and Performance Units granted hereunder and, if applicable, in the number of Common Shares covered by other awards granted pursuant to Section 10 hereof, in the Option Price and Base Price provided in outstanding Appreciation Rights, and in the kind of shares covered thereby, as the Board, in its sole discretion may determine is equitably required to prevent dilution or enlargement of the rights of Participants or Optionees that otherwise would result from (a) any stock dividend, stock split, combination of shares, recapitalization or other change in the capital structure of the Company, or (b) any merger, consolidation,
Adjustments.
 
spin-off, split-off, spin-out, split-up, reorganization, partial or complete liquidation or other distribution of assets, issuance of rights or warrants to purchase securities, or (c) any other corporate transaction or event having an effect similar to any of the foregoing. Moreover, in the event of any such transaction or event, the Board, in its discretion, may provide in substitution for any or all outstanding awards under this Plan such alternative consideration, if any, as it may determine to be equitable in the circumstances and may require in connection therewith the surrender of all awards so replaced. The Board may also make or provide for such adjustments in the numbers of shares specified in Section 3 of this Plan as the Board in its sole discretion, exercised in good faith, may determine is appropriate to reflect any transaction or event described in this Section 13; that any such adjustment to the number specified in Section 3(b)(i) will be made only if and to the extent that such adjustment would not cause any option intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option to fail so to qualify.
provided, however,
      14. For purposes of this Plan, except as may be otherwise prescribed by the Board in an Evidence of Award made under this Plan, a "Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred upon the occurrence of any of the following events:
Change in Control.
      15. Any Evidence of Award may provide that if a Participant, either during employment by the Company or a Subsidiary or within a specified period after termination of such employment, shall engage in any Detrimental Activity, and the Board shall so find, forthwith upon notice of such finding, the Participant shall:
Detrimental Activity.
 
      16. In order to facilitate the making of any grant or combination of grants under this Plan, the Board may provide for such special terms for awards to Participants who are foreign nationals or who are employed by the Company or any Subsidiary outside of the United States of America or who provide services to the Company under an agreement with a foreign nation or agency, as the Board may consider necessary or appropriate to accommodate differences in local law, tax policy or custom. Moreover, the Board may approve such supplements to or amendments, restatements or alternative versions of this Plan (including, without limitation, sub-plans) as it may consider necessary or appropriate for such purposes, without thereby affecting the terms of this Plan as in effect for any other purpose, and the Secretary or other appropriate officer of the Company may certify any such document as having been approved and adopted in the same manner as this Plan. No such special terms, supplements, amendments or restatements, however, will include any provisions that are inconsistent with the terms of this Plan as then in effect unless this Plan could have been amended to eliminate such inconsistency without further approval by the shareholders of the Company.
Non U.S. Participants.
      17. 
Transferability.
      18. To the extent that the Company is required to withhold federal, state, local or foreign taxes in connection with any payment made or benefit realized by a Participant or other person under this Plan, and the amounts available to the Company for such withholding are insufficient, it will be a condition to the receipt of such payment or the realization of such benefit that the Participant or such other person make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for payment of the balance of such taxes required to be withheld, which arrangements (in the discretion of the Board) may include relinquishment of a portion of such benefit. If a Participant's benefit is to be received in the form of Common Shares, and such Participant fails to make arrangements for the payment of tax, the Company shall withhold such Common Shares having a value equal to the amount required to be withheld. Notwithstanding the foregoing, when a Participant is required to pay the Company an amount required to be withheld under applicable income and employment tax laws, the Participant may elect to satisfy the obligation, in whole or in part, by electing to have withheld, from the shares required to be delivered to the Participant, Common Shares having a value equal to the
Withholding Taxes.
 
amount required to be withheld (except in the case of Restricted Stock where an election under Section 83(b) of the Code has been made), or by delivering to the Company other Common Shares held by such Participant. The shares used for tax withholding will be valued at an amount equal to the Market Value per Share of such Common Shares on the date the benefit is to be included in Participant's income. In no event shall the Market Value per Share of the Common Shares to be withheld and delivered pursuant to this Section to satisfy applicable withholding taxes in connection with the benefit exceed the minimum amount of taxes required to be withheld. Participants shall also make such arrangements as the Company may require for the payment of any withholding tax obligation that may arise in connection with the disposition of Common Shares acquired upon the exercise of Option Rights.
      19. 
Compliance with Section 409A of the Code.
      20. 
Amendments.
 
      21. The Plan and all grants and awards and actions taken thereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal substantive laws of the State of Ohio.
Governing Law.
      22. This Plan will be effective as of the Effective Date. No grants will be made on or after the Effective Date under the Existing Plans, except that (i) outstanding awards granted under the Existing Plans will continue unaffected following the Effective Date; (ii) the provisions relating to the deferral of Director retainers and fees under the Amended and Restated Nonemployee Director Stock Plan shall continue to apply to services rendered through December 31, 2006; and (iii) awards of performance shares and performance units granted under the 1998 Equity and Performance Incentive Plan (As Amended and Restated Effective as of June 6, 2005) and outstanding as of the Effective Date may be converted to restricted stock under such plan once such performance shares and performance units are earned. No grant will be made under this Plan more than 10 years after the Effective Date, but all grants made on or prior to such date will continue in effect thereafter subject to the terms thereof and of this Plan.
Effective Date/Termination.
      23. 
Miscellaneous Provisions.
 


