FILE:SJM/SJM-8K-20070817071534.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
 
(330) 682-3000
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On August 17, 2007, The J. M. Smucker Company (the Company) issued a press release announcing the financial results for the quarter ended July 31, 2007. A copy of the press release is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information in this Form 8-K, including the exhibit attached hereto, is furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)
 
Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
For Immediate Release
The J. M. Smucker Company Announces First Quarter Results
ORRVILLE, Ohio, August 17, 2007--The J. M. Smucker Company (NYSE: SJM) today announced results for the first quarter ended July 31, 2007, of its 2008 fiscal year. Results for the quarter include the operations of Eagle Family Foods Holdings, Inc. (Eagle) since the acquisition closing date of May 1, 2007.
First Quarter Results
Net sales increased 17 percent in the first quarter, excluding the Canadian nonbranded, grain-based foodservice and industrial businesses sold in September 2006. The acquired Eagle businesses contributed $43.5 million in the quarter, accounting for approximately one-half of the increase in net sales. Also contributing to growth in the quarter were the
Jif
,
Crisco
,
Pillsbury
, and
Uncrustables
businesses, and strong performance across the special markets segment. Net sales growth, gross margin improvements, and a reduction in restructuring costs, all contributed to an increase in net income for the quarter.
Net income per diluted share for the quarter was $0.71, a 42 percent increase over last years first quarter. Net income for the first quarter of 2008 included restructuring and merger and integration costs of $0.01 per diluted share, while net income for the first quarter of 2007 included restructuring costs of $0.09 per diluted share. Excluding these costs in both years, the Companys income per diluted share was $0.72 in the first quarter of 2008, and $0.59 in the first quarter of 2007, an increase of 22 percent.
Page 1
Once again, our brands delivered good sales growth in the quarter, commented Tim Smucker, chairman and co-chief executive officer. Earnings grew at an even greater rate than sales, a significant accomplishment in a very difficult cost environment. The addition of Eagle to our portfolio supports our strategic emphasis on owning leading North American brands and enhances our future growth opportunities.
We have started the year with good momentum, added Richard Smucker, president and co-chief executive officer. To support future growth, we continue to introduce new products and are spending behind our brands with marketing support. We are committed to investing in the long-term growth of our brands, even as we expect raw material costs to continue to escalate for the foreseeable future.
The Company uses income and income per diluted share, excluding restructuring and merger and integration costs, as key performance measures of results of operations for purposes of evaluating performance internally. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
Rather, the presentation of results excluding such charges is consistent with the way management internally evaluates its businesses, facilitates the comparison of past and present operations, and provides a more comprehensive understanding of the financial results.
A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to net income for the current quarter is included in the Unaudited Financial Highlights table.
Margins
 
Operating income increased by $19.6 million, or 40 percent, compared to the first quarter of 2007. The quarters operating income was favorably impacted by lower restructuring charges compared to last year. In addition, the current quarters margins benefited from the divestiture of the lower margin, nonbranded Canadian businesses in the second quarter of fiscal 2007. Favorable product mix, mainly attributable to increased peanut butter sales, and improved
Uncrustables
profitability also contributed to margin improvement.
Page 2
The Company realized significantly higher commodity costs during the quarter as compared to the same period last year. Pricing actions taken over the last several quarters helped to offset a portion of the increased costs. Commodity costs are expected to continue to rise, particularly for milk, soybean oil, wheat, and peanuts. As a result, future pricing actions are anticipated.
Selling, distribution, and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales increased in the first quarter of 2008 as
marketing and selling expenses increased at a higher rate than sales
.
Other
Interest expense increased by $4.0 million in the first quarter of 2008 compared to the first quarter of 2007, resulting from the issuance of $400 million in senior notes, a portion of which was used to repay short-term debt used in financing the Eagle acquisition. The investment of excess proceeds resulted in an increase in interest income of $1.5 million during the quarter compared to the same quarter last year.
In June 2007, the Company divested its industrial ingredients business in Scotland resulting in a pre-tax gain of $1.9 million and an after-tax gain of $0.5 million. The effective tax rate for the quarter was 36.1 percent due primarily to taxes associated with the divestiture of the Scotland operation and repatriation of foreign earnings. However, the Company expects a tax rate for the full year of approximately 34.5 percent.
Segment Performance
Page 3
U.S. Retail Market
U.S. retail market segment net sales for the quarter were up 18 percent. Net sales in the consumer strategic business area increased 6 percent led by peanut butter and
Uncrustables.
A temporary interruption in supply of peanut butter in the market continued through the first quarter, adding to demand for the Companys products. Net sales in the consumer oils and baking strategic business area were up 42 percent. Excluding the contribution of $38.3 million from the acquired Eagle business, consumer oils and baking sales increased 10 percent due to growth in oils, baking mixes and frostings, and the impact of the
White Lily
brand acquired in the second quarter of 2007.
Special Markets
Net sales in the first quarter for the special markets segment, excluding divested businesses, increased 14 percent resulting primarily from a 36 percent increase in the foodservice strategic business area. Foodservice sales increased 21 percent excluding the contribution of Eagle. Contributing to growth in special markets, sales in beverage were up 11 percent and Canada sales were up 6 percent primarily resulting from the impact of favorable exchange rates.
Conference Call
 
The Company will conduct an earnings conference call and webcast on Friday, August 17, 2007, at 8:30 a.m. E.T. The webcast, as well as a replay in downloadable MP3 format, can be accessed from the Companys website at
www.smuckers.com
. For those unable to listen to the webcast, an audio replay will be available following the call and can be accessed by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820, with a pass code of 4871503, and will be available until Friday, August 24, 2007.
 
About The J. M. Smucker Company
The J. M. Smucker Company is the leading marketer and manufacturer of fruit spreads, peanut butter, shortening and oils, ice cream toppings, sweetened condensed milk, and health and natural foods beverages in North America. Its family of brands includes
Smucker
s
,
Jif
,
Crisco
,
Pillsbury
,
Eagle Brand
,
R.W. Knudsen Family
,
Hungry Jack
,
White Lily
 and
Martha White
 in the United States, along with
Robin Hood
,
Five Roses
and
Bick
s
 in Canada. The Company remains rooted in the Basic Beliefs of Quality, People, Ethics, Growth and Independence established by its founder and namesake more than a century ago. Since 1998, the Company has appeared on
FORTUNE
Magazines annual listing of the 100 Best Companies to Work For in the United States, ranking number one in 2004. For more information about the company, visit
www.smuckers.com
.
Page 4
 
The J. M. Smucker Company Forward-Looking Language
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding estimates of future earnings and cash flows that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Uncertainties that could affect actual results include, but are not limited to, volatility of commodity markets from which raw materials are procured and the related impact on costs, crude oil price trends and its impact on transportation, energy, and packaging costs, raw material and ingredient cost trends, the ability to successfully implement price changes, particularly in the consumer oils and baking business, the success and cost of introducing new products and the competitive response, particularly in the consumer oils and baking area, the success and cost of marketing and sales programs and strategies intended to promote growth in the Companys businesses, the concentration of certain of the Companys businesses with key customers and the ability to manage and maintain key customer relationships, the timing and amount of capital expenditures, restructuring, and merger and integration costs, the timing and cost of acquiring common shares under the Companys share repurchase authorization, and other factors affecting share prices and capital markets generally. Other risks and uncertainties that may materially affect the Company are detailed from time to time in the respective reports filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including Forms 10-Q, 10-K, and 8-K.
Contacts:
The J. M. Smucker Company
(330) 682-3000
Investors:
Mark R. Belgya
Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
Media:
Maribeth Badertscher
Director, Corporate Communications
Page 5
 
Page 6
 
 
 
Page 7
 
 
Page 8
 
The Company uses income and income per diluted share, excluding restructuring and merger and integration costs, as key performance measures of results of operations for purposes of evaluating performance internally. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Rather, the presentation of results excluding such charges is consistent with the way management internally evaluates its businesses, facilitates the comparison of past and present operations and provides a more comprehensive understanding of the financial results.
 
Page 9
Page 10


