FILE:SJM/SJM-8K-20081009165929.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Exhibit 99.1 to this report includes excerpts from an investor presentation by The J. M. Smucker Company ("Smucker") that provide certain projected financial data concerning Smucker's operations subsequent to the proposed merger of the coffee business of The Procter & Gamble Company ("P&G"), including the Folgers brand, with a wholly owned subsidiary of Smucker. Certain of the information included in this presentation, specifically information concerning Smucker's historical and anticipated EBITDA and Free Cash Flow, is non-GAAP financial information. Smucker's management believes these measures give investors an additional perspective on Smucker's cash flow from operating activities.
This Form 8-K and the exhibits thereto contain forward-looking statements that are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements. The projected financial data included in this presentation assume the successful completion of the Folgers transaction and reflect numerous estimates and assumptions relating to, among other things, the ability of Smucker to successfully operate P&G's coffee business (the "Coffee Business") outside of P&G and Smucker's existing business operations and are subject to significant economic, industry and competitive uncertainties, including those risk factors referenced below, and, accordingly, such data may not be indicative of future results. You should understand that the risks, uncertainties, factors and assumptions listed and discussed in this press release, including the following important factors and assumptions, could affect the future results of Smucker following the transactions (the "Transactions") between P&G and Smucker described in the definitive proxy materials of Smucker dated September 3, 2008 (the "Proxy Materials") and Amendment No. 3 to the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-152451) filed by Smucker with the Securities and Exchange Commission on October 8, 2008 (the "Registration Statement") and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements: (i) volatility of commodity markets from which raw materials, particularly corn, wheat, peanuts, soybean oil, milk and green coffee beans, are procured and the related impact on costs; (ii) the successful integration of the Coffee Business with Smucker's business, operations and culture and the ability to realize synergies and other potential benefits of the Transactions within the time frames currently contemplated; (iii) crude oil price trends and their impact on transportation, energy, and packaging costs; (iv) the ability to successfully implement price changes; (v) the success and cost of introducing new products and the competitive response; (vi) the success and cost of marketing and sales programs and
strategies intended to promote growth in Smucker's businesses, which will include the Coffee Business after the completion of the Transactions; (vii) general competitive activity in the market, including competitors' pricing practices and promotional spending levels; (viii) the concentration of certain of Smucker's businesses, which will include the Coffee Business after the completion of the Transactions, with key customers and the ability to manage and maintain key customer relationships; (ix) the loss of significant customers or a substantial reduction in orders from these customers or the bankruptcy of any such customer; (x) changes in consumer coffee preferences, and other factors affecting the Coffee Business, which will represent a substantial portion of Smucker's business after the completion of the Transactions; (xi) the ability of Smucker and Folgers to obtain any required financing; (xii) the timing and amount of Smucker's capital expenditures, restructuring, and merger and integration costs; (xiii) the outcome of current and future tax examinations and other tax matters, and their related impact on Smucker's tax positions; (xiv) foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations; (xv) other factors affecting share prices and capital markets generally; and (xvi) the other factors described under "Risk Factors" in the Registration Statement filed by Smucker with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in the other reports and statements filed by Smucker with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and the Proxy Materials.
You are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made, when evaluating the information presented in this Form 8-K. None of Smucker, any other person or any of their respective advisors assumes any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect new events or circumstances.
Additional Information
Smucker and Folgers have filed registration statements with the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") registering the shares of Folgers common stock and Smucker common shares to be issued to P&G shareholders in connection with the Folgers transaction. Smucker has also filed a definitive proxy statement with the SEC that has been sent to the shareholders of Smucker. In connection with the exchange offer for the shares of common stock of Folgers, P&G filed on October 8, 2008 a tender offer statement with the SEC. The proxy statement, prospectus, tender offer statement and other documents relating to the proposed transaction can be obtained free of charge from the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. The documents can also be obtained free of charge from Smucker upon written request to The J. M. Smucker Company, Shareholder Relations, Strawberry Lane, Orrville, Ohio 44667 or by calling (330) 684-3838.
This communication is not a solicitation of a proxy from any security holder of Smucker and shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. No offer of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. However, P&G, Smucker and certain of their respective directors and executive officers may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from shareholders in connection with the proposed transaction under the rules of the SEC. Information about the directors and executive officers of The J. M. Smucker Company may be found in its 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on June 27, 2008, and its definitive proxy statement relating to its 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders filed with the SEC on July 14, 2008. Information about the directors and executive officers of The Procter & Gamble Company may be found in its 2008 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on August 28, 2008, and its definitive proxy statement relating to its 2008 Annual Meeting of Shareholders filed with the SEC on August 29, 2008.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 



