FILE:SJM/SJM-8K-20081016165659.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions (see General Instruction A.2. below):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 16, 2008, The J. M. Smucker Company ("Smucker") issued a press release announcing the results of its special meeting of shareholders held on October 16, 2008. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this report and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Orrville, Ohio, October 16, 2008  The J. M. Smucker Company (NYSE: SJM) ("Smucker") announced that at a special meeting of shareholders held today, October 16, 2008, Smucker shareholders overwhelmingly approved a proposal to issue Smucker common shares in the merger of The Folgers Coffee Company with a wholly owned subsidiary of Smucker and to authorize the transactions relating to the merger (the "Transaction"). Smucker shareholders also approved the adoption of amended articles of incorporation of Smucker in connection with the merger to provide all Smucker shareholders with equal voting rights as of the closing of the Transaction.
Tim Smucker, Chairman of the Board and Co-Chief Executive Officer of Smucker, said, "We are very pleased with today's vote and the continued confidence and support we've received from our shareholders. We are looking forward to completing this transaction and adding and to our portfolio of iconic brands like , , and ."
Folgers
Millstone
Smucker's
Jif
Crisco
Closing of the Transaction remains subject to certain customary closing conditions and completion of the previously announced exchange offer by The Procter & Gamble Company ("P&G"), including a minimum tender condition. Regulatory and other governmental approvals required for the Transaction have already been obtained. The Transaction is expected to close in early November.
About The J. M. Smucker Company
The J. M. Smucker Company is the leading marketer and manufacturer of fruit spreads, peanut butter, shortening and oils, ice cream toppings, sweetened condensed milk, and health and natural foods beverages in North America. Its family of brands includes , , , , , , , and in the United States, along with , , , and in Canada. The Company remains rooted in the Basic Beliefs of Quality, People, Ethics, Growth and Independence established by its founder and namesake more than a century ago. Since 1998, the Company has appeared on FORTUNE Magazine's annual listing of the 100 Best Companies to Work For in the United States, ranking number one in 2004. For more information about the Company, visit .
Smucker's
Jif
Crisco
Pillsbury
Eagle Brand
R.W. Knudsen Family
Hungry Jack
White Lily
Martha White
Robin Hood
Five Roses
Carnation
Europe's Best
Bick's
www.smuckers.com
The J. M. Smucker Company is the owner of all trademarks, except is a trademark of The Pillsbury Company, used under license and is a trademark of Societe des Produits Nestle S.A., used under license.
Pillsbury
Carnation
The J. M. Smucker Company Forward-Looking Language
This press release contains forward-looking statements that are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from
any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements. You should understand that the risks, uncertainties, factors and assumptions listed and discussed in this press release, including the following important factors and assumptions, could affect the future results of Smucker following the Transaction between P&G and Smucker and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements: (i) volatility of commodity markets from which raw materials, particularly corn, wheat, peanuts, soybean oil, milk and green coffee beans, are procured and the related impact on costs; (ii) the successful integration of P&G's coffee business (the "Coffee Business") with Smucker's business, operations and culture and the ability to realize synergies and other potential benefits of the Transaction within the time frames currently contemplated; (iii) crude oil price trends and their impact on transportation, energy, and packaging costs; (iv) the ability to successfully implement price changes; (v) the success and cost of introducing new products and the competitive response; (vi) the success and cost of marketing and sales programs and strategies intended to promote growth in Smucker's businesses, which will include the Coffee Business after the completion of the Transaction; (vii) general competitive activity in the market, including competitors' pricing practices and promotional spending levels; (viii) the concentration of certain of Smucker's businesses, which will include the Coffee Business after the completion of the Transaction, with key customers and the ability to manage and maintain key customer relationships; (ix) the loss of significant customers or a substantial reduction in orders from these customers or the bankruptcy of any such customer; (x) changes in consumer coffee preferences, and other factors affecting the Coffee Business, which will represent a substantial portion of Smucker's business after the completion of the Transaction; (xi) the ability of Smucker and Folgers to obtain any required financing; (xii) the timing and amount of Smucker's capital expenditures, restructuring, and merger and integration costs; (xiii) the outcome of current and future tax examinations and other tax matters, and their related impact on Smucker's tax positions; (xiv) foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations; (xv) other factors affecting share prices and capital markets generally; and (xvi) the other factors described under "Risk Factors" in the registration statement filed by Smucker with the Securities and Exchange Commission and in the other reports and statements filed by Smucker with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and the definitive proxy materials prepared in connection with the Folgers transaction.
You are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made, when evaluating the information presented in this press release. None of Smucker, any other person or any of their respective advisors assumes any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect new events or circumstances.
Additional Information
Smucker and The Folgers Coffee Company ("Folgers") have filed registration statements with the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC") registering the shares of Folgers common stock and Smucker common shares to be issued to P&G shareholders in connection with the Folgers transaction. In connection with the exchange offer for the shares of common stock of Folgers, P&G filed on October 8, 2008 a tender offer statement with the SEC. P&G shareholders are urged to read the prospectus included in the registration statements, the tender offer statement and any other relevant documents,
because they contain important information about Smucker, Folgers and the proposed transaction. The prospectus, tender offer statement and other documents relating to the proposed transaction can be obtained free of charge from the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. The documents can also be obtained free of charge from P&G upon written request to The Procter and Gamble Company, Shareholder Services Department, P.O. Box 5572, Cincinnati, Ohio 45201-5572 or by calling (800) 742-6253, or from Smucker upon written request to The J. M. Smucker Company, Shareholder Relations, Strawberry Lane, Orrville, Ohio 44667 or by calling (330) 684-3838.
This communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to registration or qualification under the securities laws of such jurisdiction. No offer of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 


