FILE:SJM/SJM-8K-20080619071557.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
 
(330) 682-3000
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On June 19, 2008, The J. M. Smucker Company (the Company) issued a press release announcing the financial results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended April 30, 2008. A copy of the press release is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information in this Form 8-K, including the exhibit attached hereto, is furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

 
For Immediate Release
The J. M. Smucker Company Announces Fourth Quarter Results
Company Again Achieves Record Full-Year Sales and Earnings
Anticipated Folgers Merger Expected to be Accretive to Earnings in Fiscal 2009
ORRVILLE, Ohio, June 19, 2008 --The J. M. Smucker Company (NYSE: SJM) today announced results for the fourth quarter and fiscal year ended April 30, 2008. Results for the quarter and year ended April 30, 2008, include the operations of Eagle Family Foods Holdings, Inc. (Eagle) which was acquired on May 1, 2007.
Fourth Quarter Results
Net sales increased 20 percent in the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to the fourth quarter of 2007 as acquisitions accounted for over half of the growth, and price increases accounted for a majority of the remainder of the overall increase in sales. The acquired Eagle businesses contributed $42.5 million and acquisitions in total added $59.9 million in net sales during the quarter. The
Smuckers
,
Crisco
, and
Hungry Jack
brands increased over last year due to a combination of volume and pricing gains. Favorable exchange rates also contributed to net sales.
Net income per diluted share for the quarter was $0.67, a decrease of 11 percent compared to last years fourth quarter. During last years fourth quarter, a peanut butter competitor was temporarily out of the market, and as a result, sales benefited by approximately $15 million and earnings by an estimated $0.08 per share. Included in net income for this quarter was a net insurance settlement of approximately $4 million, or $0.05 per diluted share, related to storm damage at a third-party distribution center in Memphis, Tennessee. Also included in net income for the fourth quarter of 2008 were restructuring and merger and integration costs of $0.06 per diluted share, while net income for the fourth quarter of 2007 included restructuring and merger and integration costs of less than $0.01 per diluted share. Excluding restructuring and merger and integration costs in both years, the Companys income per diluted share was $0.73 in the fourth quarter of 2008, and $0.75 in the fourth quarter of 2007, a decrease of 3 percent.
Page 1
Our performance this year is especially gratifying in a time of unprecedented cost increases, commented Tim Smucker, chairman and co-chief executive officer. Despite raw material cost increases over $150 million, we completed another record year with both sales and earnings exceeding our long-term strategic growth goals. It is our focus on the consumer, and meeting their needs with quality products, that provides the basis for our continued success and enhances opportunities for continued growth.
As we start the new year, we look forward to completing the transaction to merge the Folgers coffee business into Smucker, added Richard Smucker, president and co-chief executive officer. 
Folgers
is a perfect fit with our strategy to own and market number one brands in North America. The addition of
Folgers
will strengthen our portfolio of brands and we believe it is financially compelling. This powerful combination will provide increased size and scale that will benefit all of our businesses, position us for future growth, and deliver long-term shareholder value.
Full Year Results
Net sales increased 22 percent in 2008 compared to 2007, excluding the Canadian nonbranded, grain-based foodservice and industrial businesses sold in September 2006. The acquired Eagle businesses contributed $236.2 million in 2008 and total acquisitions added $279.7 million. Net sales increased 8 percent excluding both acquisitions and the divested Canadian businesses.
Net income per diluted share for 2008 was $3.00, an increase of 9 percent over last year. Net income for 2008 included restructuring and merger and integration costs of $0.15 per diluted share, while net income for 2007 included restructuring and merger and integration costs of $0.13 per diluted share. Excluding these costs in both years, the Companys income per diluted share was $3.15 in 2008, and $2.89 in 2007, an increase of 9 percent.
Page 2
 
The Company uses income and income per diluted share, excluding restructuring and merger and integration costs, as key measures of results of operations for purposes of evaluating performance internally. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP.
Rather, the presentation of results excluding such charges is consistent with the way management internally evaluates its businesses, facilitates the comparison of past and present operations, and provides management a more comprehensive understanding of the financial results.
A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to net income for the current quarter and year is included in the Unaudited Financial Highlights table.
Margins
 
Operating income decreased by $6.9 million, or 10 percent, compared to the fourth quarter of 2007, and decreased from 13.9 percent to 10.5 percent of net sales. The impact of higher raw material costs, predominantly the record levels for soybean oil
and
wheat
,
was the primary cause of the decline in gross profit to 30.9 percent of net sales compared to an unusually high 36.5 percent in last years fourth quarter. The impact of price increases taken to date, while essentially offsetting higher raw material costs, was not sufficient to maintain profit margins and accounted for approximately one-third of the gross margin decline. Margins in the current quarter were also negatively impacted by the Eagle business which, due to higher milk costs and a higher percentage of non-branded versus branded sales, realized margins below the Companys average. Last years fourth quarter results also were favorably affected by the nonrecurring benefit of incremental higher-margin peanut butter sales.
Selling, distribution, and administrative (SD&A) expenses increased 9 percent, for the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to 2007, resulting from increased marketing investment, along with costs related to the acquired Eagle business. However, all SD&A expenses, particularly corporate overhead expenses, increased at a lesser rate than net sales resulting in an overall decrease in SD&A from 22.2 percent of net sales to 20.3 percent, providing some offset to the decline in gross profit as a percent of net sales. Restructuring and merger and integration costs were $4.1 million higher in the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to 2007, further reducing operating margin by almost 70 basis points.
Page 3
Other
Interest expense increased by $4.7 million in the fourth quarter of 2008 compared to the fourth quarter of 2007, resulting from the issuance of $400 million in senior notes in the first quarter of 2008, a portion of which repaid short-term debt used in financing the Eagle acquisition.
The effective tax rate decreased to 30.0 percent in the fourth quarter of 2008, from 35.3 percent in the comparable period in 2007 primarily due to a lower state tax rate.
During the fourth quarter, the Company repurchased 1,296,600 common shares for $66.2 million in cash, including one million common shares under a previously announced Rule 10b5-1 trading plan.
Segment Performance
U.S. Retail Market
U.S. retail market segment net sales for the quarter were up 15 percent. Net sales in the consumer strategic business area increased 5 percent led by
Smuckers
fruit spreads
 
and
Uncrustables
, and
Hungry Jack
products
.
Net sales in the consumer oils and baking strategic business area were up 32 percent. Excluding the contribution of $34.1 million from the acquired Eagle business, consumer oils and baking strategic business area net sales increased 6 percent, primarily due to volume gains in oils and price increases.
Page 4
For 2008, U.S. retail market segment net sales increased 21 percent compared to 2007. Net sales in the consumer strategic business area increased 9 percent. Excluding the contribution of $198.9 million from the acquired Eagle business, net sales in the oils and baking strategic business area increased 8 percent over 2007.
Special Markets
Net sales in the fourth quarter for the special markets segment increased 34 percent. Net sales in the Canada strategic business area were up 63 percent primarily due to the impact of the acquired Eagle and
Carnation
canned milk businesses, the
Europes Best
acquisition, and favorable exchange rates. Net sales increased 20 percent in the foodservice strategic business area, and were up 8 percent, excluding the contribution of the Eagle acquisition. Net sales in the beverage strategic business area increased by 16 percent.
For 2008, special markets segment net sales increased 24 percent compared to 2007, excluding divested Canadian businesses.
Outlook
Earlier this month, the Company announced that it entered into a definitive agreement with The Procter & Gamble Company (P&G) to merge P&Gs Folgers coffee business with and into the Company. Assuming the transaction closes early in the fourth quarter of calendar 2008, the Companys net sales are estimated to range from $3.8 to $4.0 billion and earnings per share before one-time costs associated with the transaction, are estimated to range from $3.45 to $3.50. Actual results for the year will depend on the final closing date of the transaction.
On its base business, the Company expects raw material costs in 2009 to increase approximately $150 million over 2008 levels with soybean oil, wheat, peanuts, and certain fruits accounting for the majority of the increase. Pricing actions, taken over the last several months, and including those effective in May, will help offset the impact of the cost increases, but will not be sufficient to expand margins in the near term. The Company also plans to increase its 2009 marketing investment by 20 percent.
Page 5
Conference Call
 
The Company will conduct an earnings conference call and webcast on
Thursday, June 19, 2008, at 8:30 a.m. E.T. The webcast, as well as a replay in downloadable MP3 format, can be accessed from the Companys website at
www.smuckers.com
. For those unable to listen to the webcast, an audio replay will be available following the call and can be accessed by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820, with a pass code of 7462309, and will be available until Thursday, June 26, 2008.
 
About The J. M. Smucker Company
The J. M. Smucker Company is the leading marketer and manufacturer of fruit spreads, peanut butter, shortening and oils, ice cream toppings, sweetened condensed milk, and health and natural foods beverages in North America. Its family of brands includes
Smucker's
,
Jif
,
Crisco
,
Pillsbury
,
Eagle Brand
,
R.W. Knudsen Family
,
Hungry Jack
,
White Lily
 and
Martha White
 in the United States, along with
Robin Hood
,
Five Roses
,
Carnation
,
Europes Best
 and
Bick's
 in Canada. The Company remains rooted in the Basic Beliefs of Quality, People, Ethics, Growth and Independence established by its founder and namesake more than a century ago. Since 1998, the Company has appeared on FORTUNE Magazines annual listing of the 100 Best Companies to Work For in the United States, ranking number one in 2004. For more information about the Company, visit
www.smuckers.com
.
The J. M. Smucker Company is the owner of all trademarks, except
Pillsbury
is a trademark of The Pillsbury Company, used under license and
Carnation
is a trademark of Societe des Produits Nestle S.A., used under license.
 
 
The J. M. Smucker Company Forward-Looking Language
This press release contains forward-looking statements, including statements regarding estimates of future earnings and cash flows that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially. Uncertainties that could affect actual results include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions in the U.S.; the volatility of commodity markets from which raw materials are procured and the related impact on costs; crude oil price trends and its impact on transportation, energy, and packaging costs; the ability to successfully implement price changes; the success and cost of introducing new products and the competitive response; the success and cost of marketing and sales programs and strategies intended to promote growth in the Companys businesses; general competitive activity in the market, including competitors pricing practices and promotional spending levels; the concentration of certain of the Companys businesses with key customers and the ability to manage and maintain key customer, supplier, and employee relationships; the loss of significant customers or a substantial reduction in orders from these customers or the bankruptcy of any such customer; the ability of the Company to obtain any required financing; the timing and amount of capital expenditures, restructuring, and merger and integration costs; the outcome of current and future tax examinations and other tax matters, and their related impact on the Companys tax positions; the ability of the Company to obtain regulatory and shareholders approval of the Folgers merger without unexpected delays or conditions; the ability of the Company to integrate acquired and merged businesses in a timely and cost effective manner; the ability to achieve synergies and cost savings in the amounts and within the time frames anticipated; foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations; the timing and cost of acquiring common shares under the Companys share repurchase authorization; and other factors affecting share prices and capital markets generally. Other risks and uncertainties that may materially affect the Company are detailed from time to time in the respective reports filed by the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including Forms 10-Q, 10-K, and 8-K.
Page 6
Additional Information
In connection with the proposed transaction between Smucker and P&G, Smucker will file a registration statement on Form S-4 with the U. S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) registering the common shares to be issued to P&G shareholders in connection with the Folgers transaction and will also file a proxy statement with the SEC that will be sent to the shareholders of Smucker. Shareholders are urged to read the proxy statement and the prospectus included in the registration statement and any other relevant documents when they become available, because they will contain important information about Smucker, Folgers and the proposed transaction. The proxy statement, prospectus and other documents relating to the proposed transaction (when they are available) can be obtained free of charge from the SECs website at
www.sec.gov
. The documents (when they are available) can also be obtained free of charge from Smucker upon written request to The J. M. Smucker Company, Shareholder Relations, Strawberry Lane, Orrville, Ohio 44667 or by calling (330) 684-3838, or from P&G upon written request to The Procter & Gamble Company, Shareholder Services Department, P.O. Box 5572, Cincinnati, Ohio 45201-5572 or by calling (800) 742-6253.
This communication is not a solicitation of a proxy from any security holder of Smucker. However, P&G, Smucker and certain of their respective directors and executive officers may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from shareholders in connection with the proposed transaction under the rules of the SEC. Information about the directors and executive officers of The J. M. Smucker Company may be found in its 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on June 26, 2007, and its definitive proxy statement relating to its 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders filed with the SEC on July 9, 2007. Information about the directors and executive officers of The Procter & Gamble Company may be found in its 2007 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed with the SEC on August 28, 2007, and its definitive proxy statement relating to its 2007 Annual Meeting of Shareholders filed with the SEC on August 28, 2007.
Page 7
Contacts:
The J. M. Smucker Company
(330) 682-3000
Investors:
Mark R. Belgya
Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
Sonal Robinson
Director, Corporate Finance and Investor Relations
Media:
Maribeth Badertscher
Director, Corporate Communications
Page 8
Page 9
Page 10
 
Page 11
'The Company uses income and income per diluted share, excluding restructuring and merger and integration costs, as key performance measures of results of operations for purposes of evaluating performance internally. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Rather, the presentation of results excluding such charges is consistent with the way management internally evaluates its businesses, facilitates the comparison of past and present operations and provides management a more comprehensive understanding of the financial results
Page 12
Page 13


