FILE:SJM/SJM-8K-20091120071524.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code:  
(330) 682-3000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 20, 2009, The J. M. Smucker Company (the Company) issued a press release announcing the financial results for the quarter ended October 31, 2009.  A copy of the press release is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information in this Form 8-K, including the exhibit attached hereto, is furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)       Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  November 20, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
For Immediate Release
The J. M. Smucker Company Announces Record Second Quarter Results and Increases 2010 Outlook
ORRVILLE, Ohio, November 20, 2009 The J. M. Smucker Company (NYSE: SJM) today announced results for the second quarter ended October 31, 2009 of its 2010 fiscal year.  Results for the three-month and six-month periods ended October 31, 2009, include the operations of The Folgers Coffee Company (Folgers).  References to base business refer to the Companys operations excluding the impact of Folgers.
Executive Summary
 
Page 1
 
Achieving another quarter of record results further affirms our strategy of owning and marketing center-of-the-store, number one food brands, commented Tim Smucker, Chairman of the Board and Co-Chief Executive Officer.  In support of our brands, we recently introduced new advertising, increased media support, and implemented multi-brand promotional events across our portfolio.  Consumers continue to respond well to our brands, our product innovations, and the value we bring in helping to provide memorable meals and moments for their families.
With strong momentum in the first half of the year, and confidence in our strategy and our ability to execute this strategy, we are raising our outlook for the year, added Richard Smucker, Executive Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer.  We recently celebrated the one year anniversary of the Folgers merger, and appreciate the efforts of our employees in quickly achieving all key integration milestones.  We continue to expect good performance from our portfolio of iconic brands.
Net Sales
Net sales were up 52 percent in the second quarter of 2010 compared to 2009, due to the addition of Folgers.  Excluding Folgers and foreign exchange, net sales were down 6 percent in the second quarter of 2010, compared to 2009.  Volume was up 1 percent, and was more than offset by a 7 percent decline due to price and mix, with price reductions in the U.S. retail oils and baking segment being the key driver.
The increase in net volume, excluding Folgers, was primarily led by gains in , , , and brands in the U.S., and the Companys baking brands in Canada.  These gains were partially offset by decreases in canned milk, fruit spreads, and declines in the foodservice and natural foods businesses.
Pillsbury
Crisco
Jif
Hungry Jack
 
Page 2
 
Margins
Gross profit increased $248.8 million in the second quarter of 2010 compared to 2009 with Folgers contributing approximately 90 percent of the increase.  Folgers gross margin was favorably impacted by green coffee market conditions, volume-related plant efficiencies, and product sales mix.  Gross profit on the Companys base business improved by approximately 10 percent, and gross margin increased from 28.9 percent in last years second quarter to 33.8 percent this quarter.  Last years results included charges of approximately $24.4 million related to nonqualifying commodity derivatives reflecting a sharp decline in soybean oil and wheat markets.  Lower raw material and distribution costs this quarter also contributed to the base business margin improvement.  Overall, gross margin improved to 38.5 percent in the second quarter of 2010.
Selling, distribution, and administrative (SD&A) expenses increased 56 percent for the second quarter of 2010, compared to 2009, with the addition of Folgers accounting for the majority of the increase.  As a percentage of net sales, SD&A increased from 17.8 percent in the second quarter of 2009 to 18.2 percent in 2010.  Consistent with the Companys strategy of long-term investment in its brands, marketing expense increased approximately 70 percent during the second quarter of 2010, compared to 2009, in support of brand equity initiatives, including new advertising for many of its brands.  As a result, marketing and selling expenses as a percentage of net sales increased from 9.6 percent in last years second quarter to 10.1 percent this year.
Amortization expense, a noncash item, increased $16.8 million to 1.4 percent of net sales in the second quarter of 2010, compared to 0.1 percent in the same period in 2009, reflecting the addition of intangible assets associated with the Folgers transaction.
 
Page 3
 
Driven by gross profit, operating income more than doubled compared to the second quarter of 2009, and improved from 10.2 percent to 18.1 percent of net sales.  Excluding the impact of merger and integration costs in both years, and further excluding restructuring costs in 2009, operating income increased from 11.0 percent of net sales in 2009 to 18.7 percent in 2010.
Interest and Income Taxes
Interest expense increased $6.2 million during the second quarter of 2010, compared to 2009, as a result of an increase in the Companys debt obligations associated with the Folgers transaction in the third quarter of 2009, offset slightly by the retirement of $75 million in debt on June 1, 2009.
Income tax expense increased $49.2 million during the second quarter of 2010 compared to 2009.  The effective tax rate increased to 34.9 percent in the second quarter of 2010 compared to 33.4 percent in 2009, reflecting the higher effective tax rate associated with the Folgers business and the net favorable resolution of previously open tax positions in 2009 as compared to 2010.
Segment Performance
 
Page 4
 
U.S. Retail Coffee Market
The U.S. retail coffee market segment contributed $445.1 million to net sales in the second quarter of 2010. Compared to the same three-month period last year, prior to the transaction, volume increased approximately 5 percent. Strong growth in the  brand contributed over three-quarters of the volume increase compared to last year, while the continued growth of  coffee in gourmet contributed the remainder.
Folgers
Dunkin
Donuts
The U.S. retail coffee market segment added $148.5 million in segment profit for the second quarter of 2010, representing a 33.4 percent margin.  Margins in the coffee segment were driven by favorable commodity costs, volume-related plant efficiencies, and sales mix.  Investment in increased marketing offset a portion of the margin gains.
U.S. Retail
Consumer
Market
U.S. retail consumer market segment net sales for the quarter were down 4 percent compared to the prior year, primarily due to sales mix.  Total volume in the U.S. retail consumer market was flat compared to the second quarter last year, as gains in  peanut butter and  pancake mixes and syrups were offset by declines in potatoes, fruit spreads,  sandwiches, and the specialty foods business.
Jif
Hungry Jack
Smuckers
Uncrustables
U.S. retail consumer market segment profit increased 4 percent for the second quarter of 2010 compared to the same period in 2009, mainly due to operating efficiencies.  Segment profit margin for the quarter improved from 22.6 percent of net sales in the second quarter of 2009 to 24.5 percent in 2010.
U.S. Retail
Oils and Baking
Market
Total volume in the U.S. retail oils and baking market segment was up 3 percent, with double-digit gains in the  and  brands offsetting declines in canned milk.  Net sales in the U.S. retail oils and baking market were down 9 percent for the second quarter of 2010 compared to 2009, reflecting the impact of price declines in shortening, oils, flour, and canned milk, and higher promotional spending on  oils.
Pillsbury
Crisco
Crisco
U.S. retail oils and baking market segment profit increased 55 percent for the second quarter of 2010, compared to the same period in 2009, and segment profit margin improved to 15.8 percent of net sales from 9.3 percent in 2009.  Last years second quarter segment profit included a significant portion of the charges on commodity derivatives and accounts for most of the profit improvement in the current quarter.  In addition, supply chain efficiencies, including lower distribution costs, offset an increase in marketing primarily in support of the  brand and a lower contribution from canned milk.
Pillsbury
 
Page 5
 
Special Markets
Net sales in the second quarter for the special markets segment increased 15 percent.  The acquisition of Folgers added $42.8 million to special markets net sales, more than offsetting a 1 percent volume decline in the base business.  Volume gains were realized in Canada primarily in the baking and pickles categories while declines in foodservice and natural foods were generally attributable to the current economic environment.
Special markets segment profit increased 56 percent for the second quarter of 2010 compared to 2009, with the addition of Folgers and lower costs.  Profit margin for the quarter improved from 12.7 percent in the second quarter of 2009 to 17.2 percent in 2010.
Other Financial Results and Measures
On October 29, 2009, the Company finalized a $400 million, three year, revolving credit facility with a group of five banks.  Subsequent to the end of the quarter, the Company repaid $350 million of Folgers bank debt and $200 million of Senior Notes utilizing a combination of cash on hand and borrowings against an existing $180 million credit facility.
For the second quarter of 2010, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) were $276.0 million, or 21.6 percent of net sales, compared to $103.1 million, or 12.2 percent of net sales in the second quarter of 2009, primarily reflecting the impact of the Folgers merger.
Cash provided by operations in the second quarter of 2010 was $212.4 million resulting in cash provided by operations of $186.2 million in the first six months of 2010 compared to $8.7 million in 2009.  The Company used significant cash during the first half of the fiscal year for seasonal fruit and vegetable procurement, the buildup of inventories to support the Fall Bake and Holiday period, and the additional increase of coffee inventory in advance of the Atlantic hurricane season.  The Company expects increased cash from operations in the second half of the year upon completion of its key promotional periods.
Outlook
The Company raised its outlook for the year.  For fiscal 2010, net sales are expected to approximate $4.5 billion.  Income per diluted share, excluding merger and integration costs of $0.17 to $0.19 per diluted share, is now expected to range between $3.95 and $4.05, an increase from the previous range of $3.65 to $3.80.  Income per diluted share is expected to reflect approximately $0.40 per share of noncash amortization expense resulting from the significant amount of intangible assets recorded on the Companys balance sheet.
 
Page 6
 
Conference Call
 
The Company will conduct an earnings conference call and webcast today, Friday, November 20, 2009, at 8:30 a.m. E.T.  The webcast, as well as a replay in downloadable MP3 format, can be accessed from the Companys website at .  For those unable to listen to the webcast, an audio replay will be available following the call and can be accessed by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820, with a pass code of 4707879, and will be available until Friday, November 27, 2009.
www.smuckers.com
Non-GAAP Measures
The Company uses non-GAAP measures including net sales excluding acquisitions and foreign exchange rate impact; income, operating income, and income per diluted share, excluding restructuring and merger and integration costs; income and income per diluted share, excluding restructuring, merger and integration costs, and amortization;  EBITDA; adjusted EBITDA; and free cash flow as key measures for purposes of evaluating performance internally.  These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP.  Rather, the presentation of these non-GAAP measures is consistent with the way management internally evaluates its businesses, and facilitates the comparison of past and present operations.  These non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.  A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to the comparable GAAP item for the quarter and year-to-date periods is included in the Unaudited Non-GAAP Measures table.
About The J. M. Smucker Company
For more than 100 years, The J. M. Smucker Company has been committed to offering consumers quality products that help families create memorable mealtime moments.  Today, Smucker is the leading marketer and manufacturer of fruit spreads, retail packaged coffee, peanut butter, shortening and oils, ice cream toppings, sweetened condensed milk, and health and natural foods beverages in North America. Its family of brands includes , , , , , , , , ,  and  in the United States, along with , , ,  and  in Canada.  The Company remains rooted in the Basic Beliefs of Quality, People, Ethics, Growth and Independence established by its founder and namesake more than a century ago.  The Company has appeared on FORTUNE Magazine's list of the 100 Best Companies to Work For in the United States 11 times, ranking number one in 2004. For more information about the Company, visit .
Smucker's
Folgers
Dunkin Donuts
Jif
Crisco
Pillsbury
Eagle Brand
R.W. Knudsen Family
Hungry Jack
White Lily
Martha White
Robin Hood
Five Roses
Carnation
Europes Best
Bick's
www.smuckers.com
 
Page 7
 
The J. M. Smucker Company is the owner of all trademarks, except  is a trademark of The Pillsbury Company, used under license;  is a trademark of Societe des Produits Nestle S.A., used under license; and  is a registered trademark of DD IP Holder LLC used under license.
Pillsbury
Carnation
Dunkin Donuts
The J. M. Smucker Company Forward-Looking Language
This press release contains forward-looking statements, such as projected operating results, earnings and cash flows, that are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements.  Readers should understand that the risks, uncertainties, factors and assumptions listed and discussed in this press release, including the following important factors and assumptions, could affect the future results of the Company and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements:
 
 
Page 8
 
Readers are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made, when evaluating the information presented in this press release.  The Company does not assume any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect new events or circumstances.
Contacts:
The J. M. Smucker Company
(330) 682-3000
Investors:
Mark R. Belgya
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Sonal Robinson
Director, Corporate Finance and Investor Relations
Media:
Maribeth Badertscher
Vice President, Corporate Communications
 
Page 9
 
 
 
Page 10
 
 
 
Page 11
 
 
(   ) Denotes use of cash
 
Page 12
 
The Company uses non-GAAP measures including net sales excluding acquisitions and foreign exchange rate impact; income, operating income, and income per diluted share, excluding restructuring and merger and integration costs; income and income per diluted share, excluding restructuring, merger and integration costs, and amortization;  earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA); adjusted EBITDA; and free cash flow as key measures for purposes of evaluating performance internally.  These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP.  Rather, the presentation of these non-GAAP measures is consistent with the way management internally evaluates its businesses, and facilitates the comparison of past and present operations.  These non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
 
Page 13
 
The Company uses non-GAAP measures including net sales excluding acquisitions and foreign exchange rate impact; income, operating income, and income per diluted share, excluding restructuring and merger and integration costs; income and income per diluted share, excluding restructuring, merger and integration costs, and amortization;  earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA); adjusted EBITDA; and free cash flow as key measures for purposes of evaluating performance internally.  These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP.  Rather, the presentation of these non-GAAP measures is consistent with the way management internally evaluates its businesses, and facilitates the comparison of past and present operations.  These non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
 
Page 14
 
 
Page 15
 


