FILE:SJM/SJM-8K-20090821072753.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Registrants telephone number, including area code: 
            
(330) 682-3000              
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On August 21, 2009, The J. M. Smucker Company (the Company) issued a press release announcing the financial results for the quarter ended July 31, 2009.  A copy of the press release is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information in this Form 8-K, including the exhibit attached hereto, is furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)           Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  August 21, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
For Immediate Release
The J. M. Smucker Company Announces Record First Quarter Results
ORRVILLE, Ohio, August 21, 2009 The J. M. Smucker Company (NYSE: SJM) today announced results for the first quarter ended July 31, 2009 of its 2010 fiscal year.  Results for the quarter ended July 31, 2009, include the operations of The Folgers Coffee Company (Folgers).
Executive Summary
 
Page 1
 
We are off to a strong start this year, with good results in our core Smucker business and the addition of Folgers, which continues its strong performance, commented Richard Smucker, Executive Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer.  As we enter the Fall Bake and Holiday period, we will have the first opportunity to offer multi-branding promotional events including .  We support our brands with investments in product innovation and marketing, and believe we are well-positioned for continued long-term profitable growth.
Folgers
More than ever, we believe that owning number one brands provides a competitive advantage, and our recent results continue to demonstrate the success of this strategy, added Tim Smucker, Chairman of the Board and Co-Chief Executive Officer.  Our strong and growing portfolio of number one brands meets the needs of todays consumers, particularly as the eat at home trend continues.  We play an important role in these family moments, by offering trusted products and simple pleasures.
Net Sales
Net sales were up 58 percent in the first quarter of 2010 compared to 2009, primarily due to the addition of Folgers.  Excluding Folgers, net volume increased 2 percent, led by  flour, baking mixes, and frostings,  oils, peanut butter, and fruit spreads which were partially offset by decreases in the special markets segment.  Volume gains were more than offset by price declines taken in calendar 2009, primarily in the U.S. retail oils and baking segment, and higher promotional spending in certain categories.  Excluding acquisitions and foreign exchange, net sales were down 1 percent in the first quarter of 2010, compared to 2009.
Pillsbury
Crisco
Jif
Smuckers
 
Page 2
 
Margins
Overall, gross profit increased $198.3 million in the first quarter of 2010 compared to 2009 with Folgers contributing over 90 percent of the increase.  As a result, gross margin improved from 31.3 percent in the first quarter of 2009, to 38.6 percent in 2010.  Folgers gross margin was favorably impacted by its strong sales volume, favorable green coffee market conditions, and product sales mix.  Gross profit on the Companys base business improved by approximately 4 percent, and increased 1.7 percent of net sales primarily attributable to lower costs.
Selling, distribution, and administrative (SD&A) expenses increased 54 percent for the first quarter of 2010, compared to 2009, with the addition of Folgers accounting for the majority of the increase.  As a percentage of net sales, SD&A decreased from 19.7 percent in the first quarter of 2009 to 19.1 percent in 2010.  Consistent with the Companys strategy of long-term investment in its brands, marketing expense increased during the first quarter of 2010, compared to 2009, in support of the Companys brand equity initiatives, including new advertising.  However, total marketing and selling expenses decreased as a percent of net sales, along with corporate administrative expenses, reflecting efficiencies realized upon integration of Folgers.
Amortization expense, a noncash item, increased $16.9 million to 1.7 percent of net sales in the first quarter of 2010, compared to 0.2 percent in the same period in 2009, reflecting the addition of intangible assets associated with the Folgers transaction.
Operating income more than doubled compared to the first quarter of 2009, and improved from 10.8 percent to 16.0 percent of net sales.  Merger and integration costs were $13.1 million higher in the first quarter of 2010 compared to 2009, reducing operating margin by 1.6 percentage points, as integration activities related to Folgers continued.  Excluding the impact of merger and integration costs in both years, and further excluding restructuring costs in 2009, operating income increased from 11.4 percent in 2009 to 17.6 percent of net sales in 2010.
 
Page 3
 
Interest and Income Taxes
Interest expense increased $8.2 million during the first quarter of 2010, compared to 2009, as a result of an increase in 2009 in the Companys debt obligations associated with the Folgers transaction, offset slightly by the retirement of $75 million in debt on June 1, 2009.
Income tax expense increased $32.0 million during the first quarter of 2010 compared to 2009.  The effective tax rate increased to 35.2 percent in the first quarter of 2010 compared to 33.3 percent in 2009, reflecting the higher effective tax rate associated with the Folgers business and the net favorable resolution of previously open tax positions in 2009 as compared to 2010.
Segment Performance
U.S. Retail Coffee Market
The U.S. retail coffee market segment contributed $366.2 million to net sales in the first quarter of 2010.  Compared to the same three-month period last year, prior to the transaction, volume increased approximately 9 percent.  The continued expansion of the  brand in the gourmet category and strong growth in traditional roast and ground led to the growth compared to last year.
Dunkin
Donuts
 
Page 4
 
The U.S. retail coffee market segment added $127.3 million in segment profit for the first quarter of 2010, representing a 34.8 percent segment profit margin.  Margins in the coffee segment were above expected long-term levels due to favorable commodity costs and volume related operating efficiencies.
U.S. Retail
Consumer
Market
U.S. retail consumer market segment net sales for the quarter were up 6 percent compared to the prior year, primarily due to a 7 percent volume gain led by  peanut butter fruit spreads, and pancakes and syrups.   were down for the quarter.
Jif
,
Smuckers
Hungry Jack
 
Smuckers Uncrustables
U.S. retail consumer market profit increased 12 percent for the first quarter of 2010 compared to the same period in 2009, mainly due to sales growth, product mix, and supply chain efficiencies.  Segment profit margin for the quarter improved from 21.8 percent of net sales in the first quarter of 2009 to 23.0 percent in 2010.
U.S. Retail
Oils and Baking
Market
Net sales in the U.S. retail oils and baking market segment were down 2 percent for the first quarter of 2010 compared to 2009, reflecting the impact of higher promotional spending and price declines in shortening, oils, flour, and canned milk.  Total volume in the U.S. retail oils and baking market was up 8 percent, with double-digit gains in  oils and  flour, baking mixes, and frostings, offsetting declines in canned milk.
Crisco
Pillsbury
U.S. retail oils and baking market profit increased 2 percent for the first quarter of 2010, compared to the same period in 2009. Segment profit margin improved to 14.7 percent of net sales from 14.2 percent in 2009, due to lower commodity costs and supply chain efficiencies, which more than offset substantially higher marketing investments primarily in support of  olive oil and the  brand.
Crisco
Pillsbury
Special Markets
Net sales in the first quarter for the special markets segment increased 4 percent.  The acquisition of Folgers added $32.9 million to special markets net sales, more than offsetting a 9 percent volume decline and the impact of foreign exchange.  Volume declines in foodservice, natural foods, and Canada were generally attributable to the current economic environment.
 
Page 5
 
Special markets segment profit increased 36 percent for the first quarter of 2010 compared to 2009, with the addition of Folgers and lower commodity costs.  Profit margin for the quarter improved from 10.8 percent in the first quarter of 2009 to 14.1 percent in 2010.
Other Financial Results and Measures
For the first quarter of 2010, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) was $212.5 million, or 20.2 percent of net sales, compared to $89.4 million, or 13.5 percent of net sales in the first quarter of 2009, primarily reflecting the impact of the Folgers merger.
Cash used by operations was $26.2 million, compared to cash provided of $60.2 million last year.  The Company expected a significant use of cash  for seasonal fruit and vegetable procurement, the buildup of inventories to support the upcoming Fall Bake and Holiday period, and the additional buildup of coffee inventory in advance of the Atlantic hurricane season.  The Company expects significant cash from operations in the second half of the year upon completion of its key promotional periods.
Outlook
The Company reaffirms its outlook for the year.  For fiscal 2010, net sales are expected to approximate $4.5 billion.  Income per diluted share, excluding merger and integration costs of $0.17 to $0.19 per diluted share, is expected to range between $3.65 and $3.80.  The Company is encouraged by its strong first quarter performance and the momentum leading into the Fall Bake and Holiday period and believes income per diluted share for the year is more likely to be near the higher end of the range.  The Company remains on track in realizing the $80 million in synergies related to the Folgers transaction.
Conference Call
 
The Company will conduct an earnings conference call and webcast today, Friday, August 21, 2009, at 8:30 a.m. E.T.  The webcast, as well as a replay in downloadable MP3 format, can be accessed from the Companys website at .  For those unable to listen to the webcast, an audio replay will be available following the call and can be accessed by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820, with a pass code of 6204951, and will be available until Friday, August 28, 2009.
www.smuckers.com
 
Page 6
 
Non-GAAP Measures
The Company uses non-GAAP measures including net sales excluding acquisitions and foreign exchange rate impact; income, operating income, and income per diluted share, excluding restructuring and merger and integration costs; income and income per diluted share, excluding restructuring, merger and integration costs, and amortization;  EBITDA; adjusted EBITDA; and free cash flow as key measures for purposes of evaluating performance internally.  These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP.  Rather, the presentation of these non-GAAP measures is consistent with the way management internally evaluates its businesses, and facilitates the comparison of past and present operations.  These non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.  A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to the comparable GAAP item for the current quarter is included in the Unaudited Non-GAAP Measures table.
About The J. M. Smucker Company
For more than 100 years, The J. M. Smucker Company has been committed to offering consumers quality products that help families create memorable mealtime moments.  Today, Smucker is the leading marketer and manufacturer of fruit spreads, retail packaged coffee, peanut butter, shortening and oils, ice cream toppings, sweetened condensed milk, and health and natural foods beverages in North America. Its family of brands includes , , , , , , , ,  and  in the United States, along with , , ,  and  in Canada. The Company remains rooted in the Basic Beliefs of Quality, People, Ethics, Growth and Independence established by its founder and namesake more than a century ago.  The Company has appeared on FORTUNE Magazine's list of the 100 Best Companies to Work For in the United States 11 times, ranking number one in 2004. For more information about the Company, visit .
Smucker's
Folgers
Jif
Crisco
Pillsbury
Eagle Brand
R.W. Knudsen Family
Hungry Jack
White Lily
Martha White
Robin Hood
Five Roses
Carnation
Europes Best
Bick's
www.smuckers.com
The J. M. Smucker Company is the owner of all trademarks, except  is a trademark of The Pillsbury Company, used under license;  is a trademark of Societe des Produits Nestle S.A., used under license; and  is a registered trademark of DD IP Holder LLC used under license.
Pillsbury
Carnation
Dunkin Donuts
 
Page 7
 
The J. M. Smucker Company Forward-Looking Language
This press release contains forward-looking statements, such as projected operating results, earnings and cash flows, that are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements.  Readers should understand that the risks, uncertainties, factors and assumptions listed and discussed in this press release, including the following important factors and assumptions, could affect the future results of the Company and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements:
 
Page 8
 
Readers are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made, when evaluating the information presented in this press release.  Smucker does not assume any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect new events or circumstances.
Contacts:
The J. M. Smucker Company
(330) 682-3000
Investors:
Mark R. Belgya
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Sonal Robinson
Director, Corporate Finance and Investor Relations
Media:
Maribeth Badertscher
Director, Corporate Communications
 
Page 9
 
 
 
Page 10
 
 
 
 
Page 11
 
(   ) Denotes use of cash
 
Page 12
 
The Company uses non-GAAP measures including net sales excluding acquisitions and foreign exchange rate impact; income, operating income, and income per diluted share, excluding restructuring and merger and integration costs; income and income per diluted share, excluding restructuring, merger and integration costs, and amortization;  earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA); adjusted EBITDA; and free cash flow as key measures for purposes of evaluating performance internally.  These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP.  Rather, the presentation of these non-GAAP measures is consistent with the way management internally evaluates its businesses, and facilitates the comparison of past and present operations.  These non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
 
Page 13
 
The Company uses non-GAAP measures including net sales excluding acquisitions and foreign exchange rate impact; income, operating income, and income per diluted share, excluding restructuring and merger and integration costs; income and income per diluted share, excluding restructuring, merger and integration costs, and amortization;  earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA); adjusted EBITDA; and free cash flow as key measures for purposes of evaluating performance internally.  These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP.  Rather, the presentation of these non-GAAP measures is consistent with the way management internally evaluates its businesses, and facilitates the comparison of past and present operations.  These non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
 
Page 14
 
 
Page 15
 


