FILE:SJM/SJM-8K-20090225071520.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
(330) 682-3000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On February 25, 2009, The J. M. Smucker Company (the Company) issued a press release announcing the financial results for the quarter ended January 31, 2009.  A copy of the press release is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information in this Form 8-K, including the exhibit attached hereto, is furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  February 25, 2009
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

  
 
 
For Immediate Release
 
The J. M. Smucker Company Announces Third Quarter Results
ORRVILLE, Ohio, February 25, 2009 --The J. M. Smucker Company (NYSE: SJM) today announced results for the third quarter ended January 31, 2009, of its 2009 fiscal year.  Results for the three-month and nine-month periods ended January 31, 2009, include the operations of The Folgers Coffee Company (Folgers) since the completion of the merger on November 6, 2008.
 
 
 
 
Page 1
 
We delivered strong financial performance this quarter with solid results in our core Smucker business and the addition of Folgers, commented Richard Smucker, Executive Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer.  The Folgers merger was completed early in the quarter and contributed to margin expansion and significantly increased cash flow.  The integration remains on track and we appreciate the commitment of our employees both in integrating Folgers, and maintaining their focus on the core business.
In difficult economic times, families look for reassurance, comfort, consistency and quality  all hallmarks of our brands, added Tim Smucker, Chairman of the Board and Co-Chief Executive Officer.  We are able to meet our consumers needs by providing choices within our product offerings, a steady stream of innovation, consumer value and products they can trust.  As a result, we are well-positioned to navigate todays tough economic times and, more importantly, our focus on the long-term will position us for future growth.
Non-GAAP Measures
The Company uses non-GAAP measures including net sales excluding acquisitions and foreign exchange rate impact; income, operating income, and income per diluted share, excluding restructuring and merger and integration costs; earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA); and adjusted EBITDA as key measures for purposes of evaluating performance internally.  These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP.  Rather, the presentation of these non-GAAP measures is consistent with the way management internally evaluates its businesses, and facilitates the comparison of past and present operations.  A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to the comparable GAAP item for the current quarter and nine-month period is included in the Unaudited Non-GAAP Measures table.
Page 2
Net Sales
 
 
Net sales increased 78 percent in the third quarter of 2009 compared to 2008.  Acquisitions contributed approximately $491.7 million, including $468.5 million from Folgers, while foreign exchange reduced net sales by approximately $16.0 million.   Excluding acquisitions and foreign exchange, net sales increased 6 percent.
Over the last year, the Company has implemented price increases necessary to offset rising costs.  While pricing was the main driver of the net sales growth, contributing 13 percent, a number of categories experienced volume gains, including baking mixes and frostings, pancakes and syrups, and canned milk, all reflecting current back-to-home meal trends.  As expected, volume declines were concentrated in the oils and flour categories.  Recent pressures in the peanut butter category caused a slight decline in volume and the Company expects this to continue through the fourth quarter although no Company products are involved in the recall.
Pillsbury
Hungry Jack
Margins
 
 
Overall, gross profit increased $205.6 million in the third quarter of 2009, more than doubling the amount in the same period last year.  The primary driver of the gross profit improvement was the addition of Folgers.  The Company improved gross profit on its base business by approximately 17 percent, or 2.6 percentage points, despite higher costs on many key ingredients. Current pricing is more in line with these higher costs, contributing to the gross profit increase and allowing the Company to continue to recover margin lost over the past few years.  Margin gains in oils, canned milk, and regional baking brands, along with the addition of Folgers, combined to increase gross margin to 33.9 percent in the third quarter of 2009 from 29.4 percent in the third quarter of 2008.
Page 3
Selling, distribution, and administrative (SD&A) expenses increased 74 percent for the third quarter of 2009 compared to 2008.  An increase in marketing and distribution expenses, much of which was related to the addition of Folgers, accounted for approximately 70 percent of the SD&A increase.  Most SD&A expenses, particularly selling and corporate overhead, increased at a lesser rate than net sales resulting in an overall decrease in SD&A from 18.2 percent of net sales to 17.9 percent, further contributing to the improvement in operating margin.
Amortization expense increased $19.0 million to 1.7 percent of net sales compared to 0.2 percent of net sales in the same period in 2008 reflecting the addition of intangible assets associated with the Folgers transaction.  The valuation of these intangible assets is preliminary, and amortization expense in future periods may vary from the amounts recorded, depending on the final values.
Operating income increased 97 percent compared to the third quarter of 2008 and improved from 10.3 percent to 11.5 percent of net sales.  Restructuring and merger and integration costs were $29.5 million higher in the third quarter of 2009 compared to 2008, as integration activities related to Folgers commenced, reducing operating margin by 2.3 percentage points.   Excluding the impact of restructuring and merger and integration costs, operating income more than doubled and increased from 10.9 percent to 14.3 percent of net sales.
Other
During the third quarter, the Companys debt obligations increased by Folgers $350 million of LIBOR-based variable rate debt.  In addition, the Company issued $400 million in Senior Notes with a weighted-average interest rate of 6.6 percent during the second quarter.  As a result, interest expense increased $11.2 million during the third quarter of 2009 compared to 2008.
Income tax expense increased $16.7 million, or 84 percent, during the third quarter of 2009 compared to 2008, in line with the percentage increase in income before taxes.  The effective tax rate was 31.8 percent, consistent in both periods.  
Page 4
Segment Performance
 
 
 
With the addition of Folgers, the Company added the U.S. retail coffee market reportable segment representing the domestic sales of , , and branded coffee to retail customers.   Coffee sales to other than domestic retail customers are included in the special markets segment.
Folgers
Millstone
Dunkin Donuts
U.S.
Retail Market
U.S. retail market segment net sales for the quarter were up 9 percent, with pricing accounting for the majority of the increase.  Net sales in the consumer strategic business area increased 9 percent, with gains in fruit spreads, and .  Acquisitions contributed approximately one-quarter of the consumer increase.  Net sales in the consumer oils and baking strategic business area were also up 9 percent, with increases in , and canned milk, primarily due to the effect of price increases.  Volume gains were realized in baking mixes, frostings, and canned milk.  While total volume in the business area was down 11 percent, most of the decline was expected and reflects the impact of last years price increases in oils and flour.
Smuckers
 
Jif
Hungry Jack
Pillsbury
Crisco
Eagle Brand
 
For the first nine months of 2009, U.S. retail market segment net sales increased 14 percent compared to the first nine months of 2008 with net sales up 12 percent in the consumer strategic business area, and up 15 percent in the consumer oils and baking strategic business area.
U.S. retail market segment profit increased 39 percent for the quarter, sharply ahead of the increase in net sales, and 16 percent for the first nine months of 2009 compared to the same periods in 2008.  Much of the gain was in the oils and baking area with almost half of the segment profit increase attributable to improvements in the canned milk business.  A better match of prices to costs this year compared to last year accounted for most of the remainder of the profit increase.
Page 5
U.S.
Retail Coffee Market
The U.S. retail coffee market segment contributed $442.9 million to net sales and $90.2 million in segment profit for the third quarter of 2009.  On a pro forma basis, net sales increased 4 percent for the quarter as growth in  contributed to net sales and margin growth.  Integration of the Folgers business is proceeding as planned as the Company completed its customer facing activities at the beginning of February, achieving a key milestone.
Dunkin
Donuts
Special Markets
Net sales in the third quarter for the special markets segment increased 17 percent.  Canada strategic business area net sales were flat, as the impact of the  acquisition and pricing gains were offset by unfavorable foreign exchange.  In local currency, Canada net sales increased 3 percent excluding acquisitions.  Net sales increased in the foodservice business area by 64 percent, as the acquisition of Folgers added $25.6 million of the increase and the  acquisition also contributed.  The gains from acquisitions accounted for most of the increase, and more than offset declines in the portion control business resulting from a decrease in away-from-home dining.  Net sales in the beverage business area were down 7 percent.  For the first nine months of 2009, special markets segment net sales are up 23 percent, primarily due to acquisitions.
Europes Best
Knotts Berry Farm
Special markets segment profit increased 7 percent for the quarter and 10 percent for the first nine months of 2009 compared to the same periods in 2008, again resulting from the impact of recent acquisitions.
Page 6
Other Financial Results and Measures
For the third quarter of 2009, EBITDA was $179 million, or 15.1 percent of net sales, compared to $85.6 million, or 12.9 percent of net sales in the third quarter of 2008, reflecting better margins on the Companys core brands and the impact of the Folgers merger. Cash provided by operating activities increased $138.4 million to $280.3 million during the quarter resulting from the completion of the Fall Bake season, and the contribution from Folgers.  As a result, the Company had $359.9 million in cash and cash equivalents on hand at January 31, 2009.
Outlook
The Company estimates net sales for fiscal 2009 to range from $3.6 to $3.7 billion, down from a previous range of $3.8 to $4.0 billion.  Non-GAAP income per diluted share, excluding restructuring and merger and integration costs, is estimated to range from $3.15 to $3.30.   The new income per share range includes the incremental noncash amortization expense related to Folgers and the anticipated impact from ongoing pressure in the peanut butter category.  The effect of lost peanut butter sales and margins, along with the related additional advertising and consumer communication costs, and unrecovered overhead are expected to result in a negative impact in the range of $0.05 to $0.07 per diluted share.  The Company remains committed to its long-term strategic objectives of 6 percent annual sales growth and greater than 8 percent earnings per share growth.
Conference Call
 
The Company will conduct an earnings conference call and webcast today, Wednesday, February 25, 2009, at 8:30 a.m. E.T.  The webcast, as well as a replay in downloadable MP3 format, can be accessed from the Companys website at .  For those unable to listen to the webcast, an audio replay will be available following the call and can be accessed by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820, with a pass code of 6323048, and will be available until Wednesday, March 4, 2009.
www.smuckers.com
 
About The J. M. Smucker Company
For more than 100 years, The J. M. Smucker Company has been committed to offering consumers quality products that help families create memorable mealtime moments.  Today, Smucker is the leading marketer and manufacturer of fruit spreads, retail packaged coffee, peanut butter, shortening and oils, ice cream toppings, sweetened condensed milk, and health and natural foods beverages in North America. Its family of brands includes , , , , , , , ,  and  in the United States, along with , , ,  and  in Canada. The Company remains rooted in the Basic Beliefs of Quality, People, Ethics, Growth and Independence established by its founder and namesake more than a century ago. The Company has appeared on FORTUNE Magazine's list of the 100 Best Companies to Work For in the United States 11 times, ranking number one in 2004. For more information about the Company, visit .
Smucker's
Folgers
Jif
Crisco
Pillsbury
Eagle Brand
R.W. Knudsen Family
Hungry Jack
White Lily
Martha White
Robin Hood
Five Roses
Carnation
Europes Best
Bick's
www.smuckers.com
Page 7
The J. M. Smucker Company is the owner of all trademarks, except Pillsbury is a trademark of The Pillsbury Company, used under license; Carnation is a trademark of Societe des Produits Nestle S.A., used under license; and Dunkin Donuts is a registered trademark of DD IP Holder LLC used under license.
The J. M. Smucker Company Forward-Looking Language
This press release contains forward-looking statements, such as projected operating results, earnings and cash flows, that are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements. Readers should understand that the risks, uncertainties, factors and assumptions listed and discussed in this press release, including the following important factors and assumptions, could affect the future results of Smucker and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements: (i) volatility of commodity markets from which raw materials, particularly green coffee beans, wheat, soybean oil, milk, and peanuts are procured and the related impact on costs; (ii) the successful integration of the coffee business with Smuckers business, operations and culture and the ability to realize synergies and other potential benefits of the merger within the time frames currently contemplated; (iii) crude oil price trends and their impact on transportation, energy, and packaging costs; (iv) the ability to successfully implement price changes; (v) the success and cost of introducing new products and the competitive response; (vi) the success and cost of marketing and sales programs and strategies intended to promote growth in Smuckers businesses; (vii) general competitive activity in the market, including competitors pricing practices and promotional spending levels; (viii) the concentration of certain of Smuckers businesses, with key customers and the ability to manage and maintain key customer relationships; (ix) the loss of significant customers or a substantial reduction in orders from these customers or the bankruptcy of any such customer; (x) changes in consumer coffee preferences, and other factors affecting the coffee business, which represents a substantial portion of Smuckers business; (xi) the ability of Smucker to obtain any required financing; (xii) the timing and amount of capital expenditures, restructuring, and merger and integration costs; (xiii) the outcome of current and future tax examinations and other tax matters, and their related impact on Smuckers tax positions; (xiv) foreign currency and interest rate fluctuations; (xv) political or economic disruption due to the global recession and credit crisis; (xvi) other factors affecting share prices and capital markets generally; and (xvii) the other factors described under Risk Factors in other reports and statements filed by Smucker with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K and proxy materials.
Page 8
Readers are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made, when evaluating the information presented in this press release.  Smucker does not assume any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect new events or circumstances.
Additional Information
Projected non-GAAP income per diluted share for fiscal 2009 is adjusted from projected GAAP income per diluted share by excluding estimated restructuring and merger and integration costs. The actual amount of those costs for the full fiscal year cannot be determined at this time, but are anticipated to include the same categories of expenses included in the quantitative reconciliation of non-GAAP income before restructuring and merger and integration costs to GAAP net income for the three and nine-month periods ended January 31, 2009 and 2008 included elsewhere in this press release.
Contacts:
The J. M. Smucker Company
(330) 682-3000
Investors:
Mark R. Belgya
Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Sonal Robinson
Director, Corporate Finance and Investor Relations
Media:
Maribeth Badertscher
Director, Corporate Communications
Page 9
 
Page 10
Page 11
 
 
Page 12
 
The Company uses non-GAAP measures including net sales excluding acquisitions and foreign exchange rate impact; income, operating income, and income per diluted share, excluding restructuring and merger and integration costs; earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization ("EBITDA"); and adjusted EBITDA as key measures for purposes of evaluating performance internally.  These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP.  Rather, the presentation of these non-GAAP measures is consistent with the way management internally evaluates its businesses and facilitates the comparison of past and present operations.
 
Page 13
Page 14


