FILE:SJM/SJM-8K-20101118071529.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
FORM 8-K
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
(330) 682-3000
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On November 18, 2010, The J. M. Smucker Company (the Company) issued a press release announcing the Companys financial results for the quarter ended October 31, 2010.  A copy of the press release is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit attached hereto, is furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)           Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:  November 18, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
For Immediate Release
The J. M. Smucker Company Announces Second Quarter Results
ORRVILLE, Ohio, November 18, 2010 The J. M. Smucker Company (NYSE: SJM) today announced results for the second quarter ended October 31, 2010, of its 2011 fiscal year.
Executive Summary
 
Page 1
 
We are pleased to deliver another quarter of strong earnings in this challenging economic environment, commented Tim Smucker, Chairman of the Board and Co-Chief Executive Officer. Our team continues to take a long-term view of our business, focusing on the health of our brands, delivering value to our consumers, and managing the balance between volume growth, share of market gains, and profitability.
Our long-term perspective in managing our business is backed by a strong financial position that provides the ability and flexibility to capitalize on opportunities that support our strategy, added Richard Smucker, Executive Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer.  As we look ahead, we anticipate that marketplace dynamics, including escalating commodity costs, will continue to present challenges.  However, we are confident in the ability of our team to execute our strategy and address these obstacles.
Net Sales
Net sales in the second quarter of 2011 were essentially equal to the second quarter of 2010, and increased 1 percent, excluding the impact of the potato products divestiture and foreign exchange.  Overall volume declined 4 percent driven by the Companys U.S. Retail Oils and Baking Market segment brands and  coffee in the U.S. Retail Coffee Market segment.  Volume gains were most significant across the Special Markets segment, while gains were also realized in packaged coffee,  fruit spreads, and peanut butter.  The net impact of pricing contributed approximately 3 percent to net sales and the overall impact of sales mix was favorable.
Folger
s
Dunkin Donuts
Smuckers
Jif
 
 
 
Page 2
 
Margins
 
 
Gross profit increased $2.4 million to 38.7 percent of net sales in the second quarter of 2011, from 38.5 percent in the second quarter of 2010.  The second quarter of 2011 includes the impact of $12.1 million of restructuring charges in cost of products sold and $5.9 million of unrealized mark-to-market losses on derivative contracts.  The impact of raw material and manufacturing costs on gross profit was mixed.  Green coffee costs were significantly higher in the second quarter of 2011, compared to the second quarter of 2010.  Pricing actions taken earlier in the year, relative to the recognition of higher green coffee costs, contributed to gross profit in the second quarter of 2011.  The Company expects to recognize steadily higher green coffee costs during the remainder of the year.  Higher costs were also realized for milk, sugar, and soybean oil while lower costs were recognized for peanuts and flour.  The second quarter of 2010 had benefited from volume-related plant efficiencies.
Selling, distribution, and administrative expenses decreased 4 percent for the second quarter of 2011, compared to 2010, and decreased as a percentage of net sales from 18.2 percent to 17.4 percent.  Compared to the second quarter of 2010, that included higher levels of investment spending in brand equity initiatives and new advertising, marketing expenses decreased 15 percent for the second quarter of 2011.  A portion of the marketing expense decrease was reallocated to support promotional programs, primarily in the U.S. Retail Oils and Baking Market segment.  Selling and distribution expenses in the second quarter of 2011 remained relatively even with 2010.  General and administrative expenses were up 5 percent over the same period.
 
Page 3
 
 
Operating income increased $8.8 million, or 4 percent, in the second quarter of 2011, compared to 2010, despite an increase in special project costs of approximately $15.0 million.  Excluding the impact of special project costs in both periods, operating income increased $23.9 million, or 10 percent, and improved from 18.7 percent of net sales in 2010, to 20.6 percent in 2011.
Interest and Income Taxes
Interest expense increased $1.0 million during the second quarter of 2011, compared to 2010, as lower average debt outstanding was somewhat offset by modestly higher interest rates.
Income taxes decreased $3.0 million in the second quarter of 2011, compared to 2010, resulting in a quarterly effective tax rate of 32.5 percent in 2011, compared to 34.9 percent in 2010.  The lower effective tax rate for the second quarter of 2011 primarily reflects benefits realized from an increased deduction related to U.S. manufacturing activities, compared to 2010, together with lower state income taxes.
Segment Performance
*  Net sales comparability for the U.S. Retail Consumer Market is impacted by the potato products divested in March 2010.
 
 
Page 4
 
 
While the Companys four reportable segments remain the same for 2011, the calculation of segment profit has been modified to include intangible asset amortization and impairment charges related to segment assets, along with certain other items in each of the segments.  These items were previously considered corporate expenses and were not allocated to the segments.  This change more accurately aligns the segment financial results with the responsibilities of segment management, most notably in the area of intangible assets.  Fiscal 2010 segment profit has been recalculated to be consistent with the current methodology.
U.S. Retail Coffee Market
The U.S. Retail Coffee Market segment net sales increased 7 percent in the second quarter of 2011, compared to the second quarter in 2010.  Price increases totaling 13 percent were taken in 2011 to cover rising green coffee costs, but were partially offset by a 7 percent overall volume decline and additional promotional spending.  Volume decreased in the  brand while  packaged coffee continued its double-digit growth.  The introduction of  and offerings during the quarter contributed approximately 2 percent to U.S. Retail Coffee Market segment net sales.
Folgers
Dunkin Donuts
Folgers Gourmet Selections
Millstone
K-Cups
Green coffee costs were significantly higher in the second quarter of 2011, compared to the second quarter of 2010.  Pricing actions taken earlier in the year, relative to higher green coffee costs realized during the second quarter, contributed to segment profit.  The Company expects the impact of rising green coffee costs to accelerate during the remainder of the year.  Marketing expenses decreased in the second quarter of 2011, compared to the second quarter of 2010 which included significant long-term investments in brand equity initiatives and new advertising.  U.S. Retail Coffee Market segment profit increased 13 percent in the second quarter of 2011, compared to the second quarter of 2010 that included the benefit of volume-related plant efficiencies.  Segment profit margin was 31.2 percent in 2011, compared to 29.6 percent in 2010.
U.S. Retail
Consumer
Market
The U.S. Retail Consumer Market segment net sales declined approximately 2 percent while volume increased 1 percent, excluding the effect of potato products divested in the fourth quarter of 2010.  Net sales include the impact of a peanut butter price reduction of 5 percent taken earlier in the fiscal year.  Volume gains were realized in  fruit spreads, peanut butter, and brand waffles, offsetting volume declines in sandwiches and toppings.  Reported segment net sales and volume decreased 6 percent and 3 percent, respectively, for the second quarter of 2011, compared to the second quarter of 2010, reflecting the divested potato products.
Smuckers
Jif
Smucker
s Snackn
Waffles
Smuckers Uncrustables
 
 
Page 5
 
 
The U.S. Retail Consumer Market segment profit increased 5 percent for the second quarter of 2011, compared to the second quarter in 2010, due to lower supply chain and raw material costs, primarily peanuts and corn sweetener, and a favorable sales mix that more than offset increased marketing.  Segment profit margin for the quarter improved significantly from 24.3 percent in the second quarter of 2010, to 27.3 percent in 2011.
U.S. Retail
Oils and Baking
Market
Net sales and volume in the U.S. Retail Oils and Baking Market segment were down 8 percent and 10 percent, respectively, for the second quarter of 2011, compared to 2010.   flour and baking mixes volume was down double digits due to a combination of planned reductions in lower-margin products, and an unprecedented competitive and promotional environment.  Following a price decline taken earlier in the year,  oils volume showed modest improvement, but was down 3 percent for the second quarter of 2011, compared to 2010.
Pillsbury
Crisco
The U.S. Retail Oils and Baking Market segment profit decreased 10 percent for the second quarter of 2011, compared to the second quarter of 2010.  The impact of the sales decline, along with increases in milk, sugar, and soybean oil costs, and unrealized mark-to-market adjustments on commodity contracts contributed to the profit decrease.  Segment profit margin decreased from 14.9 percent in the second quarter of 2010, to 14.6 percent in 2011.
Special Markets
Net sales in the Special Markets segment increased 4 percent in the second quarter of 2011, compared to 2010.  Excluding foreign exchange, net sales increased 2 percent over the same time period.  Volume increased 4 percent in the second quarter of 2011, compared to 2010, driven by gains in the natural foods, baking, and coffee categories.  The impact of volume gains was partially offset by higher promotional spending.
Special Markets segment profit increased 24 percent and profit margin increased to 19.8 percent from 16.7 percent for the second quarter of 2011, compared to 2010, primarily due to coffee price increases taken earlier in the year, lower flour costs, and the favorable impact of sales mix associated with higher natural foods and coffee sales.
Other Financial Results and Measures
Cash provided by operations in the first six months of 2011 was $19.5 million, compared to $187.8 million in the same period in 2010.  The decrease of $168.3 million in cash provided by operations in the first six months of 2011, compared to 2010, is primarily due to the timing of income tax payments in 2011.  The Company expects a significant use of cash during the first half of each fiscal year primarily due to the buildup of inventories to support the Fall Bake and Holiday period, and the additional increase of coffee inventory in advance of the Atlantic hurricane season.  The Company anticipates cash provided by operations in the second half of the fiscal year to exceed the amount in the first half of the year upon completion of the Companys key promotional periods.
 
 
Page 6
 
 
For the second quarter of 2011, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) were $297.4 million, or 23.3 percent of net sales, compared to $276.0 million, or 21.6 percent of net sales, in the second quarter of 2010, an increase of 8 percent.  For the first six months of 2011, EBITDA was $520.6 million, or 22.4 percent of net sales, compared to $488.4 million, or 21.0 percent of net sales, for the first six months of 2010, an increase of 7 percent.
Outlook
For fiscal 2011, net sales are expected to increase in excess of 3 percent compared to the prior year, primarily due to pricing actions.  Income per diluted share, excluding special project costs of $0.70 to $0.75 per diluted share, is expected to increase to a range of $4.55 to $4.65.  Previously the range was $4.50 to $4.60, excluding special project costs of $0.55 to $0.60 per diluted share.  Approximately $0.40 per diluted share of intangible asset amortization, a noncash expense item, is included in the range of income per diluted share for 2011.  The Company currently has approximately 3.7 million common shares authorized for repurchase by its Board of Directors that has not been factored into its outlook.
Conference Call
 
The Company will conduct an earnings conference call and webcast today, Thursday, November 18, 2010, at 8:30 a.m. E.T.  The webcast can be accessed from the Companys website at .  For those unable to listen to the webcast, an audio replay will be available following the call and can be accessed by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820, with a pass code of 5826472, and will be available until Thursday, November 25, 2010.
www.smuckers.com
 
Non-GAAP Measures
The Company uses non-GAAP measures including net sales, excluding divestitures and foreign exchange rate impact; income, operating income, and income per diluted share, excluding restructuring and merger and integration costs; income and income per diluted share, excluding restructuring, merger and integration costs, and amortization;  EBITDA; adjusted EBITDA; and free cash flow as key measures for purposes of evaluating performance internally.  These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).  Rather, the presentation of these non-GAAP measures supplements other metrics used by management to internally evaluate its businesses, and facilitates the comparison of past and present operations.  These non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies and may exclude certain nondiscretionary expenses and cash payments.  A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to the comparable GAAP items for the current and prior year quarter and year-to-date period is included in the Unaudited Non-GAAP Measures table.
 
 
Page 7
 
 
About The J. M. Smucker Company
For more than 110 years, The J. M. Smucker Company has been committed to offering consumers quality products that help families create memorable mealtime moments.  Today, Smucker is a leading marketer and manufacturer of fruit spreads, retail packaged coffee, peanut butter, shortening and oils, ice cream toppings, sweetened condensed milk, and health and natural foods beverages in North America.  Its family of brands includes , , , , , , d, , ,  and  in the United States, along with , , , t and  in Canada.  The Company remains rooted in the Basic Beliefs of Quality, People, Ethics, Growth, and Independence established by its founder and namesake more than a century ago.  The Company has appeared on FORTUNE Magazine's list of the 100 Best Companies to Work For in the United States 12 times, ranking number one in 2004.  For more information about the Company, visit .
Smucker's
Folgers
Dunkin Donuts
Jif
Crisco
Pillsbury
Eagle Bran
R.W. Knudsen Family
Hungry Jack
White Lily
Martha White
Robin Hood
Five Roses
Carnation
Europes Bes
Bick's
www.smuckers.com
The J. M. Smucker Company is the owner of all trademarks, except the Barrelhead logo and the Doughboy character are trademarks of The Pillsbury Company, LLC, used under license; is a trademark of Socit des Produits Nestl S.A., used under license; and is a registered trademark of DD IP Holder, LLC, used under license.   and Elsie are trademarks used under license.
Pillsbury
,
Carnation
 
Dunkin Donuts
 
brand is licensed to The J. M. Smucker Company for packaged coffee products sold in retail environments like grocery stores, mass merchandisers, club stores, and drug stores.  This information is not applicable to  coffee  or other products for sale in  stores. 
Dunkin Donuts
Dunkin' Donuts
Dunkin' Donuts
Borden
 
 and  are trademarks of Keurig, Incorporated.  
K-Cup
K-Cups
 
 
Page 8
 
 
The J. M. Smucker Company Forward-Looking Language
This press release contains forward-looking statements, such as projected operating results, earnings and cash flows, that are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements. Readers should understand that the risks, uncertainties, factors, and assumptions listed and discussed in this press release, including the following important factors and assumptions, could affect the future results of the Company and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements:
 
Page 9
 
Readers are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made, when evaluating the information presented in this press release. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect new events or circumstances.
Contacts:
The J. M. Smucker Company
(330) 682-3000
Investors:
Mark R. Belgya
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Sonal Robinson
Vice President, Investor Relations
Media:
Maribeth Badertscher
Vice President, Corporate Communications
 
Page 10
 
 
Page 11
 
 
 
Page 12
 
( ) Denotes use of cash
 
Page 13
 
 
Page 14
 
Excludes accelerated depreciation charges included in cost of products sold - restructuring.
(6)
The Company uses non-GAAP measures including net sales, excluding divestitures and foreign exchange rate impact; income, operating income, and income per diluted share, excluding restructuring and merger and integration costs; income and income per diluted share, excluding restructuring, merger and integration costs, and amortization; earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization ("EBITDA"); adjusted EBITDA; and free cash flow as key measures for purposes of evaluating performance internally. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Rather, the presentation of these non-GAAP measures supplement other metrics used by management to internally evaluate its businesses, and facilitates the comparison of past and present operations. These non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies and may exclude certain nondiscretionary expenses and cash payments.
 
Page 15
 
 
 
Page 16
 


