FILE:SJM/SJM-8K-20100224071558.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02  Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On February 24, 2010, The J. M. Smucker Company (the Company) issued a press release announcing the financial results for the quarter ended January 31, 2010.  A copy of the press release is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information in this Form 8-K, including the exhibit attached hereto, is furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any registration statement or other document filed pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)           Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:    February 24, 2010
 
 
 
 
 
 

For Immediate Release
 
The J. M. Smucker Company Announces Record Third Quarter Results
 
ORRVILLE, Ohio, February 24, 2010 The J. M. Smucker Company (NYSE: SJM) today announced results for the third quarter ended January 31, 2010 of its 2010 fiscal year.  Results for the three-month and nine-month periods ended January 31, 2010 and 2009, include the operations of The Folgers Coffee Company (Folgers) from the close of the transaction on November 6, 2008.
 
Executive Summary
 
 
Page 1
 
We delivered record results once again this quarter, driven by a successful Fall Bake and Holiday period, with volume and sales gains across most of our brands, commented Richard Smucker, Executive Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer.  Our demonstrated ability to leverage multi-brand, promotional events during key periods enhances our performance and reaffirms the advantage we enjoy by owning leading brands.
The continued momentum we are experiencing is a result of a solid strategy and the efforts of an outstanding team, added Tim Smucker, Chairman of the Board and Co-Chief Executive Officer.  The businesses have delivered strong performance and we look forward to additional opportunities.  We have once again raised our outlook for the year and believe that our brands have proven that they are well-positioned for continued growth.
Net Sales
Net sales were up 2 percent in the third quarter of 2010, compared to 2009, primarily due to incremental Folgers sales.  An additional five days of Folgers net sales, totaling approximately $31.8 million, were realized in this years third quarter as a result of the closing date of the merger during last years third quarter.  In total, Folgers contributed $510.3 million to net sales in the third quarter of 2010, compared to $468.5 million in the third quarter last year.  Excluding the additional Folgers business and the impact of foreign exchange, net sales were down 2 percent in the third quarter of 2010, compared to 2009, primarily due to pricing.
Excluding the additional five days of Folgers sales, total volume increased 4 percent in the third quarter of 2010, compared to 2009, with gains across most of the Companys leading brands.  The favorable impact of volume growth on net sales was more than offset by a 6 percent price and mix decline, attributable primarily to price reductions in the U.S. retail oils and baking segment, and an increase in promotional spending across several categories.
 
Page 2
 
Margins
Gross profit increased $57.3 million to 38.0 percent of net sales in the third quarter of 2010, from 33.9 percent in the third quarter of 2009.  Much of the improvement is attributable to Folgers including the impact of lower green coffee raw material costs and the extra five days of business.  In addition, last years gross margin was negatively impacted by inventory adjustments related to the merger.  Lower other raw material and freight costs across the businesses also favorably impacted this quarters gross margin compared to last year.
Driven by gross profit, operating income increased 55 percent, compared to the third quarter of 2009, and improved from 11.5 percent to 17.4 percent of net sales.  Excluding the impact of merger and integration costs in both years, and further excluding restructuring costs in 2009, operating income increased from 14.3 percent of net sales in 2009 to 17.8 percent in 2010.
Selling, distribution, and administrative expenses increased 1 percent for the third quarter of 2010, compared to 2009, but decreased slightly as a percentage of net sales.  Marketing expense decreased approximately 14 percent in the third quarter of 2010, compared to the prior year, primarily due to the higher concentration of marketing expense last year for Folgers in the third quarter compared to the fourth quarter of last year.  The Company expects its total marketing expense for the second half of fiscal 2010 to be higher than the second half of the prior year.
 
Page 3
 
Distribution expenses decreased 8 percent for the third quarter of 2010, compared to 2009, reflecting the impact of synergies related to the addition of Folgers.  General and administrative expenses increased 34 percent in the third quarter of 2010 compared to 2009.  The current quarter includes increased pension and other employee benefit costs, compared to the prior years quarter, and partial recognition of expenses related to the pending closure of the Companys West Fargo, North Dakota, manufacturing facility in April 2010.  In addition, last years third quarter expense did not include administrative expenses to fully support the Folgers business.
Amortization expense, a noncash item, was $18.6 million in the third quarter of 2010, primarily reflecting the impact of intangible assets associated with the Folgers transaction.  Noncash impairment charges of $9.8 million were recorded in the third quarter of 2010 resulting from the write-down to estimated fair value of certain of the Companys intangible assets, primarily the  tradename in Canada.
Europes Best
Interest and Income Taxes
Interest expense decreased $7.7 million during the third quarter of 2010, compared to 2009, resulting from a decrease in borrowings outstanding during the quarter as scheduled debt repayments of $75 million and $550 million were made in June and November 2009, respectively.
Income tax expense increased $25.3 million during the third quarter of 2010, compared to 2009.  The effective tax rate decreased to 31.3 percent in the third quarter of 2010, reflecting the impact of reduced effective rates in Canada, compared to 31.8 percent in 2009.
 
Page 4
 
Segment Performance
Segment performance for the three-month and nine-month periods ended January 31, 2009, has been reclassified to include Canadian Folgers results in the special markets segment, rather than in the U.S. retail coffee market segment, consistent with 2010 presentations.  Reclassification of segment performance for the three-month period ended April 30, 2009, has been provided in the Unaudited Reportable Segments Supplemental Information table.
U.S. Retail Coffee Market
The U.S. retail coffee market segment net sales increased 9 percent in the third quarter of 2010, including the additional five days of sales totaling approximately $29.2 million, compared to the third quarter of 2009.  Volume increased approximately 4 percent as compared to the same three-month period last year, including the five days prior to the merger.  The  brand contributed the majority of the volume increase compared to last year, while the continued growth of  coffee in the gourmet category also contributed double-digit growth.
Folgers
Dunkin
Donuts
The U.S. retail coffee market segment profit increased 62 percent to $148.6 million in the third quarter of 2010, compared to 2009, and improved to 31.5 percent of net sales from 21.3 percent in 2009.  Last years coffee segment margins included unfavorable merger-related inventory valuation adjustments and higher marketing and promotional expense recognition.  The current quarter margin was favorably impacted by lower green coffee raw material costs.
 
Page 5
 
U.S. Retail
Consumer
Market
U.S. retail consumer market segment net sales for the quarter increased 1 percent compared to the prior year.  Total volume in the U.S. retail consumer market increased 4 percent, compared to the third quarter last year, with gains in  pancake mixes and syrups,  peanut butter, and  fruit spreads.  Volume gains were mostly offset by increases in promotional spending, sales mix, and price declines on selected items.
Hungry Jack
Jif
Smuckers
The U.S. retail consumer market segment profit increased 6 percent for the third quarter of 2010, compared to the same period in 2009, mainly due to lower raw material and freight costs offset by incremental marketing.  Segment profit margin for the quarter improved from 23.2 percent in the third quarter of 2009 to 24.3 percent in 2010.
U.S. Retail
Oils and Baking
Market
Total volume in the U.S. retail oils and baking market segment was up 3 percent, with gains in the  and  brands.  Net sales in the U.S. retail oils and baking market were down 12 percent for the third quarter of 2010, compared to 2009, reflecting the impact of price declines taken last year and increased promotional spending across the segment.
Pillsbury
Crisco
The U.S. retail oils and baking market segment profit decreased 17 percent for the third quarter of 2010, compared to the same period in 2009, resulting in a segment profit margin of 16.1 percent compared to 17.0 percent in 2009.  Last years third quarter benefited from the favorable impact of a partial reversal of unrealized mark-to-market adjustments on commodity instruments, previously recorded during the second quarter.  A higher portion of sales sold on promotion in the third quarter of 2010, compared to 2009, and mix reduced segment margin in 2010.
Special Markets
Net sales in the special markets segment increased 8 percent, in the third quarter of 2010, compared to 2009, due to a favorable exchange rate impact of $14.2 million, and an additional five days of Folgers sales totaling approximately $2.6 million.  Volume increased 6 percent in the third quarter of 2010, compared to 2009.  Gains in Canadas baking and spreads categories, coffee in the foodservice and export businesses, and the natural foods business were offset somewhat by declines in foodservice portion control.  The impact of volume growth was more than offset by mix and increases in promotional spending.  Net sales, excluding acquisitions and foreign exchange, decreased 1 percent in the third quarter of 2010 compared to 2009.
 
Page 6
 
Special markets segment profit increased 53 percent for the third quarter of 2010, compared to 2009, primarily due to lower raw material costs and the impact of increased coffee sales.  Profit margin for the quarter improved from 12.6 percent in the third quarter of 2009 to 17.8 percent in 2010.
Other Financial Results and Measures
During the quarter, the Company repaid $350 million of Folgers bank debt and $200 million of Senior Notes utilizing a combination of cash on hand and borrowings against an existing $180 million credit facility.  The Company subsequently paid off the borrowings against the credit facility during the third quarter.
Cash provided by operations in the third quarter of 2010 was a record $322.5 million resulting in cash provided by operations of $508.7 million in the first nine months of 2010, compared to $289.0 million in 2009.
For the third quarter of 2010, earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA) were $257.4 million, or 21.3 percent of net sales, compared to $178.3 million, or 15.1 percent of net sales, in the third quarter of 2009.
Outlook
The Company raised its outlook for the year.  For fiscal 2010, net sales are expected to range between $4.5 billion and $4.6 billion.  Income per diluted share, excluding merger and integration costs of $0.17 to $0.19 per diluted share, is now expected to range between $4.02 and $4.07, an increase from the previous range of $3.95 to $4.05.  Income per diluted share is expected to reflect approximately $0.40 per share of noncash amortization expense resulting from the significant amount of intangible assets recorded on the Companys balance sheet.
The Company remains committed to its long-term strategic objectives of 6 percent annual sales growth and greater than 8 percent earnings per share growth, excluding charges.
Conference Call
 
The Company will conduct an earnings conference call and webcast today, Wednesday, February 24, 2010, at 8:30 a.m. E.T.  The webcast can be accessed from the Companys website at .  For those unable to listen to the webcast, an audio replay will be available following the call and can be accessed by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820, with a pass code of 7290467, and will be available until Wednesday, March 3, 2010.
www.smuckers.com
 
 
Page 7
 
Non-GAAP Measures
The Company uses non-GAAP measures including net sales excluding acquisitions and foreign exchange rate impact; income, operating income, and income per diluted share, excluding restructuring and merger and integration costs; income and income per diluted share, excluding restructuring, merger and integration costs, and amortization;  EBITDA; adjusted EBITDA; and free cash flow as key measures for purposes of evaluating performance internally.  These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP.  Rather, the presentation of these non-GAAP measures is consistent with the way management internally evaluates its businesses, and facilitates the comparison of past and present operations.  These non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.  A reconciliation of non-GAAP measures to the comparable GAAP item for the quarter and year-to-date periods is included in the Unaudited Non-GAAP Measures table.
About The J. M. Smucker Company
For more than 100 years, The J. M. Smucker Company has been committed to offering consumers quality products that help families create memorable mealtime moments.  Today, Smucker is the leading marketer and manufacturer of fruit spreads, retail packaged coffee, peanut butter, shortening and oils, ice cream toppings, sweetened condensed milk, and health and natural foods beverages in North America. Its family of brands includes , , , , , , , , ,  and  in the United States, along with , , ,  and  in Canada.  The Company remains rooted in the Basic Beliefs of Quality, People, Ethics, Growth and Independence established by its founder and namesake more than a century ago.  The Company has appeared on FORTUNE Magazine's list of the 100 Best Companies to Work For in the United States 12 times, ranking number one in 2004. For more information about the Company, visit .
Smucker's
Folgers
Dunkin Donuts
Jif
Crisco
Pillsbury
Eagle Brand
R.W. Knudsen Family
Hungry Jack
White Lily
Martha White
Robin Hood
Five Roses
Carnation
Europes Best
Bick's
www.smuckers.com
The J. M. Smucker Company is the owner of all trademarks, except  is a trademark of The Pillsbury Company, used under license;  is a trademark of Societe des Produits Nestle S.A., used under license; and  is a registered trademark of DD IP Holder LLC used under license.
Pillsbury
Carnation
Dunkin Donuts
 
Page 8
 
The J. M. Smucker Company Forward-Looking Language
This press release contains forward-looking statements, such as projected operating results, earnings and cash flows, that are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements.  Readers should understand that the risks, uncertainties, factors and assumptions listed and discussed in this press release, including the following important factors and assumptions, could affect the future results of the Company and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements:
 
Page 9
 
Readers are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made, when evaluating the information presented in this press release.  The Company does not assume any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect new events or circumstances.
Contacts:
The J. M. Smucker Company
(330) 682-3000
Investors:
Mark R. Belgya
Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Sonal Robinson
Director, Corporate Finance and Investor Relations
Media:
Maribeth Badertscher
Vice President, Corporate Communications
 
Page 10
 
 
 
Page 11
 
 
 
 
Page 12
 
 
 
Page 13
 
The Company uses non-GAAP measures including net sales excluding acquisitions and foreign exchange rate impact; income, operating income, and income per diluted share, excluding restructuring and merger and integration costs; income and income per diluted share, excluding restructuring, merger and integration costs, and amortization; earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA); adjusted EBITDA; and free cash flow as key measures for purposes of evaluating performance internally. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Rather, the presentation of these non-GAAP measures is consistent with the way management internally evaluates its businesses, and facilitates the comparison of past and present operations. These non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
 
 
Page 14
 
The Company uses non-GAAP measures including net sales excluding acquisitions and foreign exchange rate impact; income, operating income, and income per diluted share, excluding restructuring and merger and integration costs; income and income per diluted share, excluding restructuring, merger and integration costs, and amortization; earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA); adjusted EBITDA; and free cash flow as key measures for purposes of evaluating performance internally. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Rather, the presentation of these non-GAAP measures is consistent with the way management internally evaluates its businesses, and facilitates the comparison of past and present operations. These non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies.
 
 
Page 15
 
Segment performance for the three-month and nine-month periods ended January 31, 2009, has been reclassified to include Canadian Folgers results in special markets segment, rather than in the U.S. retail coffee market segment, consistent with 2010 presentations.
 
 
Page 16
 
Segment performance for the three-month period ended April 30, 2009, has been reclassified to reflect Canadian Folgers results between the special markets segment and the U.S. retail coffee market segment, consistent with 2010 presentations. Segment performance for the year ended April 30, 2009 has not been impacted.
 
 
Page 17
 


