FILE:SJM/SJM-8K-20100820170530.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
(e) Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
At the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of The J. M. Smucker Company (the " ") held on August 18, 2010, the Company's shareholders, upon recommendation of the Company's Board of Directors (the " "), approved The J. M. Smucker Company 2010 Equity and Incentive Compensation Plan (the " "), as more specifically described in Item 5.07 below. The Executive Compensation Committee of the Board unanimously approved and adopted the 2010 Plan on April 21, 2010, subject to the approval of the Company's shareholders.
Company
Board
2010 Plan
The 2010 Plan authorizes the granting of cash and equity-based compensation in the form of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, cash incentive awards, performance shares, performance units, and other awards for the purpose of providing the Company's Directors, executive officers, other employees, and consultants incentives and rewards for performance. The Board has delegated authority to the Executive Compensation Committee of the Board to administer the 2010 Plan. Subject to adjustment as provided in the 2010 Plan, the maximum number of common shares that may be issued or transferred in connection with the awards under the 2010 Plan will not exceed the sum of 7,000,000 shares plus the number of shares available for awards under The J. M. Smucker Company 2006 Equity Compensation Plan as of the effective date of the 2010 Plan.
The foregoing is a summary of the material terms and conditions of the 2010 Plan and not a complete description of the 2010 Plan. The 2010 Plan is described in greater detail in the Company's definitive proxy statement for the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on July 8, 2010 (the " "). The descriptions of the 2010 Plan contained herein and in the Proxy Statement are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full text of the 2010 Plan attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 10.1, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Proxy Statement
The Company's Annual Meeting of Shareholders was held on August 18, 2010 in Wooster, Ohio, pursuant to the Notice of the 2010 Annual Meeting of Shareholders and the Proxy Statement sent on or about July 8, 2010 to all shareholders of record at the close of business on June 23, 2010. At the meeting, 104,635,147 shares were represented in person or by proxy, which constituted a quorum. Each of the proposals listed below was approved by the shareholders pursuant to the voting results set forth below.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: August 20, 2010
 

Exhibit 10.1
     1. The purpose of The J. M. Smucker Company 2010 Equity and Incentive Compensation Plan is to attract and retain Directors, consultants, officers and other employees of The J. M. Smucker Company, an Ohio corporation, and its Subsidiaries and to provide to such persons incentives and rewards for performance.
Purpose.
     2. As used in this Plan,
Definitions.
          (a) "Appreciation Right" means a right granted pursuant to Section 5 or Section 9 of this Plan, and will include both Free-Standing Appreciation Rights and Tandem Appreciation Rights.
          (b) "Base Price" means the price to be used as the basis for determining the Spread upon the exercise of a Free-Standing Appreciation Right or a Tandem Appreciation Right.
          (c) "Board" means the Board of Directors of the Company and, to the extent of any delegation by the Board to a committee (or subcommittee thereof) pursuant to Section 11 of this Plan, such committee (or subcommittee).
          (d) "Cash Incentive Award" means a cash award granted pursuant to Section 8 of this Plan.
          (e) "Change in Control" has the meaning set forth in Section 13 of this Plan.
          (f) "Code" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
          (g) "Common Shares" means the shares of common stock, without par value, of the Company or any security into which such common shares may be changed by reason of any transaction or event of the type referred to in Section 12 of this Plan.
          (h) "Company" means The J. M. Smucker Company, an Ohio corporation, and its successors.
          (i) "Covered Employee" means a Participant who is, or is determined by the Board to be likely to become, a "covered employee" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code (or any successor provision).
          (j) "Date of Grant" means the date specified by the Board on which a grant of Option Rights, Appreciation Rights, Performance Shares, Performance Units, Cash Incentive Awards or other awards contemplated by Section 10 of this Plan, or a grant or sale of Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, or other awards contemplated by Section 10 of this Plan will
 
become effective (which date will not be earlier than the date on which the Board takes action with respect thereto).
          (k) "Detrimental Activity" means:
 
          (l) "Director" means a member of the Board.
          (m) "Effective Date" means, with respect to Cash Incentive Awards, the date this Plan is approved by the shareholders of the Company and, with respect to all other awards under this Plan, November 7, 2010 provided that this Plan is approved by the shareholders of the Company prior to or on such date.
          (n) "Evidence of Award" means an agreement, certificate, resolution or other type or form of writing or other evidence approved by the Board that sets forth the terms and conditions of the awards granted under the Plan. An Evidence of Award may be in an electronic medium, may be limited to notation on the books and records of the Company and, with the approval of the Board, need not be signed by a representative of the Company or a Participant.
          (o) "Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and the rules and regulations thereunder, as such law, rules and regulations may be amended from time to time.
          (p) "Existing Plan" means The J. M. Smucker Company 2006 Equity Compensation Plan.
          (q) "Free-Standing Appreciation Right" means an Appreciation Right granted pursuant to Section 5 or Section 9 of this Plan that is not granted in tandem with an Option Right.
          (r) "Incentive Stock Options" means Option Rights that are intended to qualify as "incentive stock options" under Section 422 of the Code or any successor provision.
          (s) "Management Objectives" means the measurable performance objective or objectives established pursuant to this Plan for Participants who have received grants of Performance Shares or Performance Units or, when so determined by the Board, Cash Incentive Awards, Option Rights, Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, dividend credits and other awards pursuant to this Plan. Management Objectives may be described in terms of Company-wide objectives or objectives that are related to the performance of the individual Participant or of the Subsidiary, division, department, region or function within the Company or Subsidiary in which the Participant is employed. The Management Objectives may be made relative to the performance of other companies or subsidiaries, divisions, departments, regions or functions within such other companies, and may be made relative to an index or one or more of the performance criteria themselves. The Board may grant awards subject to Management Objectives that are either Qualified Performance-Based Awards or are not Qualified Performance-Based Awards. The Management Objectives applicable to any Qualified Performance-Based Award to a Covered Employee will be based on one or more, or a combination, of the following metrics:
 
     If the Board determines that a change in the business, operations, corporate structure or capital structure of the Company, or the manner in which it conducts its business, or other events or circumstances render the Management Objectives unsuitable, the Board may in its discretion modify such Management Objectives or the related minimum acceptable level of achievement, in whole or in part, as the Board deems appropriate and equitable, except in the case of a Qualified Performance-Based Award (other than in connection with a Change in Control) where such action would result in the loss of the otherwise available exemption of the award under Section 162(m) of the Code. In such case, the Board will not make any modification of the Management Objectives or minimum acceptable level of achievement with respect to such Covered Employee.
          (t) "Market Value per Share" means, as of any particular date, the average of the high and low sales prices of the Common Shares as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape or, if not listed on such exchange, on any other national securities exchange on which the Common Shares are listed, or if there are no sales on such day, on the next preceding trading day during which a sale occurred. If there is no regular trading market for such Common Shares, the Market Value per Share will be determined by the Board.
 
          (u) "Non-Employee Director" means a person who is a "Non-Employee Director" of the Company within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 of the Securities and Exchange Commission promulgated under the Exchange Act and an "outside director" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder by the U.S. Department of the Treasury.
          (v) "Optionee" means the optionee named in an Evidence of Award evidencing an outstanding Option Right.
          (w) "Option Price" means the purchase price payable on exercise of an Option Right.
          (x) "Option Right" means the right to purchase Common Shares upon exercise of an option granted pursuant to Section 4 or Section 9 of this Plan.
          (y) "Participant" means a person who is selected by the Board to receive benefits under this Plan and who is at the time a consultant, an officer, or other employee of the Company or any one or more of its Subsidiaries, or who has agreed to commence serving in any of such capacities within 90 days of the Date of Grant, and will also include each non-employee Director who receives an award under this Plan. The term "Participant" will also include any person who provides services to the Company or a Subsidiary that are equivalent to those typically provided by an employee.
          (z) "Performance Period" means, in respect of a Performance Share or Performance Unit, a period of time established pursuant to Section 8 of this Plan within which the Management Objectives relating to such Performance Share or Performance Unit are to be achieved.
          (aa) "Performance Share" means a bookkeeping entry that records the equivalent of one Common Share awarded pursuant to Section 8 of this Plan.
          (bb) "Performance Unit" means a bookkeeping entry awarded pursuant to Section 8 of this Plan that records a unit equivalent to $1.00 or such other value as is determined by the Board.
          (cc) "Plan" means The J. M. Smucker Company 2010 Equity and Incentive Compensation Plan, as may be amended from time to time.
          (dd) "Qualified Performance-Based Award" means any award of Cash Incentive Awards, Performance Shares, Performance Units, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or other awards contemplated under Section 10 of this Plan, or portion of such award, to a Covered Employee that is intended to satisfy the requirements for "qualified performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code.
          (ee) "Restricted Stock" means Common Shares granted or sold pursuant to Section 6 or Section 9 of this Plan as to which neither the substantial risk of forfeiture nor the prohibition on transfers has expired.
 
          (ff) "Restriction Period" means the period of time during which Restricted Stock Units are subject to restrictions, as provided in Section 7 or Section 9 of this Plan.
          (gg) "Restricted Stock Unit" means an award made pursuant to Section 7 or Section 9 of this Plan of the right to receive Common Shares or cash at the end of a specified period. An award of Restricted Stock Units may be described as an award of "Deferred Stock Units".
          (hh) "Spread" means the excess of the Market Value per Share on the date when an Appreciation Right is exercised over the Option Price or Base Price provided for in the related Option Right or Free-Standing Appreciation Right, respectively.
          (ii) "Subsidiary" means a corporation, company or other entity (i) at least 50 percent of whose outstanding shares or securities (representing the right to vote for the election of directors or other managing authority) are, or (ii) which does not have outstanding shares or securities (as may be the case in a partnership, joint venture or unincorporated association), but at least 50 percent of whose ownership interest representing the right generally to make decisions for such other entity is, now or hereafter, owned or controlled, directly or indirectly, by the Company except that for purposes of determining whether any person may be a Participant for purposes of any grant of Incentive Stock Options, "Subsidiary" means any corporation in which at the time the Company owns or controls, directly or indirectly, at least 50 percent of the total combined voting power represented by all classes of stock issued by such corporation.
          (jj) "Tandem Appreciation Right" means an Appreciation Right granted pursuant to Section 5 or Section 9 of this Plan that is granted in tandem with an Option Right.
     3. 
Shares Available Under the Plan.
          (a) .
Maximum Shares Available Under Plan
 
          (b) . Notwithstanding anything in this Section 3, or elsewhere in this Plan, to the contrary and subject to adjustment as provided in Section 12 of this Plan:
Life of Plan Limits
          (c) . Notwithstanding anything in this Section 3, or elsewhere in this Plan to the contrary, and subject to adjustment as provided in Section 12 of this Plan:
Individual Participant Limits
 
     4. The Board may, from time to time and upon such terms and conditions as it may determine, authorize the granting to Participants of options to purchase Common Shares. Each such grant may utilize any or all of the authorizations contained in the following provisions:
Option Rights.
          (a) Each grant will specify the number of Common Shares to which it pertains subject to the limitations set forth in Section 3 of this Plan.
          (b) Each grant will specify an Option Price per share, which may not be less than the Market Value per Share on the Date of Grant.
          (c) Each grant will specify whether the Option Price will be payable (i) in cash or by check acceptable to the Company or by wire transfer of immediately available funds, (ii) by the actual or constructive transfer to the Company of Common Shares owned by the Optionee for at least six months (or other consideration authorized pursuant to Section 4(d) of this Plan) having a value at the time of exercise equal to the total Option Price, (iii) by a combination of such methods of payment, or (iv) by such other methods as may be approved by the Board.
          (d) To the extent permitted by law, any grant may provide for deferred payment of the Option Price from the proceeds of sale through a bank or broker on a date satisfactory to the Company of some or all of the shares to which such exercise relates.
          (e) Successive grants may be made to the same Participant whether or not any Option Rights previously granted to such Participant remain unexercised.
          (f) Each grant will specify the period or periods of continuous service by the Optionee with the Company or any Subsidiary that is necessary before the Option Rights or installments thereof will become exercisable. A grant of Option Rights may provide for the earlier exercise of such Option Rights in the event of the retirement, the attainment of reasonable age and service requirements approved by the Board, death or disability of a Participant or a Change in Control.
          (g) Any grant of Option Rights may specify Management Objectives that must be achieved as a condition to the exercise of such rights.
          (h) Option Rights granted under this Plan may be (i) options, including, without limitation, Incentive Stock Options, that are intended to qualify under particular provisions of the Code, (ii) options that are not intended so to qualify, or (iii) combinations of the
 
foregoing. Incentive Stock Options may only be granted to Participants who meet the definition of "employees" under Section 3401(c) of the Code.
          (i) The exercise of an Option Right will result in the cancellation on a share- for-share basis of any Tandem Appreciation Right authorized under Section 5 of this Plan.
          (j) No Option Right will be exercisable more than 10 years from the Date of Grant.
          (k) Each grant of Option Rights will be evidenced by an Evidence of Award. Each Evidence of Award will be subject to this Plan and will contain such terms and provisions, consistent with this Plan, as the Board may approve.
     5. 
Appreciation Rights.
          (a) The Board may, from time to time and upon such terms and conditions as it may determine, authorize the granting (i) to any Optionee, of Tandem Appreciation Rights in respect of Option Rights granted hereunder, and (ii) to any Participant, of Free-Standing Appreciation Rights. A Tandem Appreciation Right will be a right of the Optionee, exercisable by surrender of the related Option Right, to receive from the Company an amount determined by the Board, which will be expressed as a percentage of the Spread (not exceeding 100 percent) at the time of exercise. Tandem Appreciation Rights may be granted at any time prior to the exercise or termination of the related Option Rights; , , that a Tandem Appreciation Right awarded in relation to an Incentive Stock Option must be granted concurrently with such Incentive Stock Option. A Free-Standing Appreciation Right will be a right of the Participant to receive from the Company an amount determined by the Board, which will be expressed as a percentage of the Spread (not exceeding 100 percent) at the time of exercise.
provided
however
          (b) Each grant of Appreciation Rights may utilize any or all of the authorizations contained in the following provisions:
 
          (c) Any grant of Tandem Appreciation Rights will provide that such Tandem Appreciation Rights may be exercised only at a time when the related Option Right is also exercisable and at a time when the Spread is positive, and by surrender of the related Option Right for cancellation. Successive grants of Tandem Appreciation Rights may be made to the same Participant regardless of whether any Tandem Appreciation Rights previously granted to the Participant remain unexercised.
          (d) Regarding Free-Standing Appreciation Rights only:
     6. The Board may, from time to time and upon such terms and conditions as it may determine, also authorize the grant or sale of Restricted Stock to Participants. Each such grant or sale may utilize any or all of the authorizations contained in the following provisions:
Restricted Stock.
          (a) Each such grant or sale will constitute an immediate transfer of the ownership of Common Shares to the Participant in consideration of the performance of services, entitling such Participant to voting, dividend and other ownership rights, but subject to the substantial risk of forfeiture and restrictions on transfer hereinafter referred to.
          (b) Each such grant or sale may be made without additional consideration or in consideration of a payment by such Participant that is less than the Market Value per Share at the Date of Grant.
          (c) Each such grant or sale will provide that the Restricted Stock covered by such grant or sale that vests upon the passage of time will be subject to a "substantial risk of forfeiture" within the meaning of Section 83 of the Code for a period to be determined by the Board at the Date of Grant or upon achievement of Management Objectives referred to in subparagraph (e) below. If the elimination of restrictions is based only on the passage of time
 
rather than the achievement of Management Objectives, the period of time will be no shorter than three years, except that the restrictions may be removed ratably during the three-year period, on at least an annual basis, as determined by the Board.
          (d) Each such grant or sale will provide that during or after the period for which such substantial risk of forfeiture is to continue, the transferability of the Restricted Stock will be prohibited or restricted in the manner and to the extent prescribed by the Board at the Date of Grant (which restrictions may include, without limitation, rights of repurchase or first refusal in the Company or provisions subjecting the Restricted Stock to a continuing substantial risk of forfeiture in the hands of any transferee).
          (e) Any grant of Restricted Stock may specify Management Objectives that, if achieved, will result in termination or early termination of the restrictions applicable to such Restricted Stock; , , that notwithstanding subparagraph (c) above, restrictions relating to Restricted Stock that vests upon the achievement of Management Objectives may not terminate sooner than one year from the Date of Grant. Each grant may specify in respect of such Management Objectives a minimum acceptable level of achievement and may set forth a formula for determining the number of shares of Restricted Stock on which restrictions will terminate if performance is at or above the minimum or threshold level or levels, or is at or above the target level or levels, but falls short of maximum achievement of the specified Management Objectives. The grant of a Qualified Performance-Based Award of Restricted Stock will specify that, before the termination or early termination of restrictions applicable to such Restricted Stock, the Board must determine that the Management Objectives have been satisfied.
provided
however
          (f) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Plan, any grant or sale of Restricted Stock may provide for the earlier termination of restrictions on such Restricted Stock in the event of the retirement, the attainment of reasonable age and service requirements approved by the Board, death or disability of a Participant or a Change in Control.
          (g) Any such grant or sale of Restricted Stock may require that any or all dividends or other distributions paid thereon during the period of such restrictions be automatically deferred and reinvested in additional shares of Restricted Stock, which may be subject to the same restrictions as the underlying award; , , that dividends or other distributions on Restricted Stock with restrictions that lapse as a result of the achievement of Management Objectives will be deferred until and paid contingent upon the achievement of the applicable Management Objectives.
provided
however
          (h) Each grant or sale of Restricted Stock will be evidenced by an Evidence of Award and will contain such terms and provisions, consistent with this Plan, as the Board may approve. Unless otherwise directed by the Board, (i) all certificates representing shares of Restricted Stock will be held in custody by the Company until all restrictions thereon will have lapsed, together with a stock power or powers executed by the Participant in whose name such certificates are registered, endorsed in blank and covering such shares or (ii) all shares of Restricted Stock will be held at the Company's transfer agent in book entry form with appropriate restrictions relating to the transfer of such shares of Restricted Stock.
 
     7. The Board may, from time to time and upon such terms and conditions as it may determine, also authorize the granting or sale of Restricted Stock Units (which may also be referred to as Deferred Stock Units) to Participants. Each such grant or sale may utilize any or all of the authorizations contained in the following provisions:
Restricted Stock Units.
          (a) Each such grant or sale will constitute the agreement by the Company to deliver Common Shares or cash to the Participant in the future in consideration of the performance of services, but subject to the fulfillment of such conditions (which may include the achievement of Management Objectives) during the Restriction Period as the Board may specify. If a grant of Restricted Stock Units specifies that the Restriction Period will terminate only upon the achievement of Management Objectives, then, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in subparagraph (c) below, such Restriction Period may not terminate sooner than one year from the Date of Grant. Each grant may specify in respect of such Management Objectives a minimum acceptable level of achievement and may set forth a formula for determining the number of Restricted Stock Units on which restrictions will terminate if performance is at or above the minimum or threshold level or levels, or is at or above the target level or levels, but falls short of maximum achievement of the specified Management Objectives. The grant of Qualified Performance-Based Awards of Restricted Stock Units will specify that, before the termination or early termination of restrictions applicable to such Restricted Stock Units, the Board must determine that the Management Objectives have been satisfied.
          (b) Each such grant or sale may be made without additional consideration or in consideration of a payment by such Participant that is less than the Market Value per Share at the Date of Grant.
          (c) If the Restriction Period lapses only by the passage of time rather than the achievement of Management Objectives as provided in subparagraph (a) above, each such grant or sale will be subject to a Restriction Period of not less than three years, except that a grant or sale may provide that the Restriction Period will expire ratably during the three-year period, on an annual basis, as determined by the Board.
          (d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Plan, any grant or sale of Restricted Stock Units may provide for the earlier lapse or other modification of the Restriction Period in the event of the retirement, the attainment of reasonable age and service requirements approved by the Board, death or disability of a Participant or a Change in Control.
          (e) During the Restriction Period, the Participant will have no right to transfer any rights under his or her award and will have no rights of ownership in the Common Shares deliverable upon payment of the Restricted Stock Units and will have no right to vote them, but the Board may, at the Date of Grant, authorize the payment of dividend equivalents on such Restricted Stock Units on either a current or deferred or contingent basis, either in cash or in additional Common Shares; , , that dividends or other distributions on Common Shares underlying Restricted Stock Units with restrictions that lapse as a result of the achievement of Management Objectives will be deferred until and paid contingent upon the achievement of the applicable Management Objectives.
provided
however
 
          (f) Each grant or sale will specify the time and manner of payment of the Restricted Stock Units that have been earned. Each grant or sale will specify that the amount payable with respect thereto will be paid by the Company in Common Shares or cash.
          (g) Each grant or sale of Restricted Stock Units will be evidenced by an Evidence of Award and will contain such terms and provisions, consistent with this Plan, as the Board may approve.
     8. The Board may, from time to time and upon such terms and conditions as it may determine, also authorize the granting of Cash Incentive Awards, Performance Shares and Performance Units. Each such grant may utilize any or all of the authorizations contained in the following provisions:
Cash Incentive Awards, Performance Shares and Performance Units.
          (a) Each grant will specify the number of Performance Shares or Performance Units, or amount payable with respect to Cash Incentive Awards, to which it pertains, which number or amount may be subject to adjustment to reflect changes in compensation or other factors; , , that no such adjustment will be made in the case of a Qualified Performance-Based Award (other than in connection with the death or disability of the Participant or a Change in Control) where such action would result in the loss of the otherwise available exemption of the award under Section 162(m) of the Code.
provided
however
          (b) The Performance Period with respect to each Cash Incentive Award, Performance Share or Performance Unit will be such period of time (not less than one year) as will be determined by the Board at the time of grant, which may be subject to earlier lapse or other modification in the event of the retirement, death or disability of a Participant or a Change in Control; , , that no such adjustment will be made in the case of a Qualified Performance-Based Award (other than in connection with the death or disability of the Participant or a Change in Control) where such action would result in the loss of the otherwise available exemption of the award under Section 162(m) of the Code.
provided
however
          (c) Any grant of Cash Incentive Awards, Performance Shares or Performance Units may specify Management Objectives which, if achieved, will result in payment or early payment of the award, and each grant may specify in respect of such specified Management Objectives a minimum acceptable level or levels of achievement and will set forth a formula for determining the number of Performance Shares or Performance Units, or amount payable with respect to Cash Incentive Awards, that will be earned if performance is at or above the minimum or threshold level or levels, or is at or above the target level or levels, but falls short of maximum achievement of the specified Management Objectives. The grant of a Qualified Performance-Based Award of a Cash Incentive Award, Performance Shares or Performance Units will specify that, before the Cash Incentive Award, Performance Shares or Performance Units will be earned and paid, the Board must determine that the Management Objectives have been satisfied.
          (d) Each grant will specify the time and manner of payment of Cash Incentive Awards, Performance Shares or Performance Units that have been earned. Any grant may specify that the amount payable with respect thereto may be paid by the Company in cash, in Common Shares, in Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units or in any combination thereof.
 
          (e) Any grant of Cash Incentive Awards, Performance Shares or Performance Units may specify that the amount payable or the number of Common Shares, shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units with respect thereto may not exceed a maximum specified by the Board at the Date of Grant.
          (f) The Board may, at the Date of Grant of Performance Shares, provide for the payment of dividend equivalents to the holder thereof either in cash or in additional Common Shares, subject in all cases to deferral and payment on a contingent basis based on the Participant's earning of the Performance Shares with respect to which such dividend equivalents are paid.
          (g) Each grant of Cash Incentive Awards, Performance Shares or Performance Units will be evidenced by an Evidence of Award and will contain such other terms and provisions, consistent with this Plan, as the Board may approve.
     9. Subject to the limit set forth in Section 3(b)(ii) of this Plan, the Board may, from time to time and upon such terms and conditions as it may determine, authorize the granting to non-employee Directors of Option Rights, Appreciation Rights or other awards contemplated by Section 10 of this Plan and may also authorize the grant or sale of Common Shares, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units (which may also be referred to as Deferred Stock Units) to non-employee Directors. Each grant of an award to a non-employee Director will be upon such terms and conditions as approved by the Board and will be evidenced by an Evidence of Award in such form as will be approved by the Board. Each grant will specify in the case of an Option Right an Option Price per share, and in the case of a Free-Standing Appreciation Right, a Base Price per share, which will not be less than the Market Value per Share on the Date of Grant. Each Option Right and Free-Standing Appreciation Right granted under the Plan to a non-employee Director will expire not more than 10 years from the Date of Grant and will be subject to earlier termination as hereinafter provided. Non-employee Directors, pursuant to this Section 9, may be awarded, or may be permitted to elect to receive, pursuant to procedures established by the Board, all or any portion of their annual retainer, meeting fees or other fees in Common Shares, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units or other awards under the Plan in lieu of cash.
Awards to Non-Employee Directors.
     10. 
Other Awards.
          (a) Subject to limitations under applicable law and to the limit set forth in Section 3(b)(ii) of this Plan, the Board may grant to any Participant such other awards that may be denominated or payable in, valued in whole or in part by reference to, or otherwise based on, or related to, Common Shares or factors that may influence the value of such shares, including, without limitation, convertible or exchangeable debt securities, other rights convertible or exchangeable into Common Shares, purchase rights for Common Shares, awards with value and payment contingent upon performance of the Company or specified Subsidiaries, affiliates or other business units thereof or any other factors designated by the Board, and awards valued by reference to the book value of Common Shares or the value of securities of, or the performance of specified Subsidiaries or affiliates or other business units of the Company. The Board will determine the terms and conditions of such awards. Common Shares delivered pursuant to an award in the nature of a purchase right granted under this Section 10 will be purchased for such
 
consideration, paid for at such time, by such methods, and in such forms, including, without limitation, Common Shares, other awards, notes or other property, as the Board determines.
          (b) The Board may grant Common Shares as a bonus, or may grant other awards in lieu of obligations of the Company or a Subsidiary to pay cash or deliver other property under this Plan or under other plans or compensatory arrangements, subject to such terms as will be determined by the Board.
          (c) Share-based awards pursuant to this Section 10 are not required to be subject to any minimum vesting period.
     11. 
Administration of the Plan.
          (a) This Plan will be administered by the Board, which may from time to time delegate all or any part of its authority under this Plan to the Executive Compensation Committee of the Board or any other committee of the Board (or a subcommittee thereof), as constituted from time to time. To the extent of any such delegation, references in this Plan to the Board will be deemed to be references to such committee or subcommittee.
          (b) The interpretation and construction by the Board of any provision of this Plan or of any agreement, notification or document evidencing the grant of Option Rights, Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares, Performance Units or other awards pursuant to Section 10 of this Plan and any determination by the Board pursuant to any provision of this Plan or of any such agreement, notification or document will be final and conclusive.
          (c) The Board or, to the extent of any delegation as provided in Section 11(a), the committee, may delegate to one or more of its members or to one or more executive officers of the Company, or to one or more agents or advisors, such administrative duties or powers as it may deem advisable, and the Board, the committee, or any person to whom duties or powers have been delegated as aforesaid, may employ one or more persons to render advice with respect to any responsibility the Board, the committee or such person may have under the Plan. The Board or the committee may, by resolution, authorize one or more executive officers of the Company to do one or both of the following on the same basis as the Board or the committee: (i) designate employees to be recipients of awards under this Plan; (ii) determine the size of any such awards; , , that (A) the Board or the Committee will not delegate such responsibilities to any such executive officer for awards granted to an employee who is an executive officer, Director, or more than 10% beneficial owner of any class of the Company's equity securities that is registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act, as determined by the Board in accordance with Section 16 of the Exchange Act, or any Covered Employee; (B) the resolution providing for such authorization sets forth the total number of Common Shares such executive officer(s) may grant; and (C) the executive officer(s) will report periodically to the Board or the committee, as the case may be, regarding the nature and scope of the awards granted pursuant to the authority delegated.
provided
however
     12. The Board will make or provide for such adjustments in the numbers of Common Shares covered by outstanding Option Rights, Appreciation Rights,
Adjustments.
 
Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares and Performance Units granted hereunder and, if applicable, in the number of Common Shares covered by other awards granted pursuant to Section 10 hereof, in the Option Price and Base Price provided in outstanding Option Rights and Appreciation Rights, and in the kind of shares covered thereby, as the Board, in its sole discretion, may determine is equitably required to prevent dilution or enlargement of the rights of Participants or Optionees that otherwise would result from (a) any stock dividend, stock split, combination of shares, recapitalization or other change in the capital structure of the Company, (b) any merger, consolidation, spin-off, split- off, spin-out, split-up, reorganization, partial or complete liquidation or other distribution of assets, issuance of rights or warrants to purchase securities, or (c) any other corporate transaction or event having an effect similar to any of the foregoing. Moreover, in the event of any such transaction or event or in the event of a Change in Control, the Board, in its discretion, may provide in substitution for any or all outstanding awards under this Plan such alternative consideration (including cash), if any, as it, in good faith, may determine to be equitable in the circumstances and may require in connection therewith the surrender of all awards so replaced in a manner that complies with Section 409A of the Code. In addition, for each Option Right or Appreciation Right with an Option Price or Base Price greater than the consideration offered in connection with any such transaction or event or Change in Control, the Board may in its sole discretion elect to cancel such Option Right or Appreciation Right without any payment to the person holding such Option Right or Appreciation Right. The Board will also make or provide for such adjustments in the numbers of shares specified in Section 3 of this Plan as the Board in its sole discretion, exercised in good faith, may determine is appropriate to reflect any transaction or event described in this Section 12; , , that any such adjustment to the number specified in Section 3(b)(i) will be made only if and to the extent that such adjustment would not cause any option intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option to fail to so qualify.
provided
however
     13. For purposes of this Plan, except as may be otherwise prescribed by the Board in an Evidence of Award made under this Plan, a "Change in Control" will be deemed to have occurred upon the occurrence of any of the following events:
Change in Control.
          (a) The consummation of a merger, consolidation, combination (as defined in Section 1701.01(Q), Ohio Revised Code), or majority share acquisition (as defined in Section 1701.01(R), Ohio Revised Code) involving the Company and as a result of which the securities of the Company entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors that are outstanding immediately prior to the transaction do not continue to represent, directly or indirectly (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into securities of the surviving entity or any parent thereof entitled to vote in the election of directors of such entity), one-third or more of the voting power of the surviving entity or any parent thereof;
          (b) The consummation of the sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company;
          (c) The adoption of any resolution of reorganization or dissolution of the Company by the shareholders;
          (d) If during any period of two consecutive years, individuals who at the beginning of such period constitute the Directors of the Company cease for any reason to
 
constitute a majority thereof; , , that any individual who becomes a Director during such period whose election, or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders, was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds of the Directors then still in office who were Directors of the Company at the beginning of such period (either by specific vote or by approval of the proxy statement of the Company in which such individual is named as a nominee for Director, without objection to such nomination) will be considered as though such individual were a Director of the Company at the beginning of such period, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of Directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act) other than the Board; or
provided
however
          (e) The acquisition by any person (including a group within the meaning of Sections 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act other than the Company (or any of its Subsidiaries) of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 25% or more of the Company's then outstanding securities, unless such acquisition is approved by the vote of at least two-thirds of the Directors of the Company then in office.
     14. Any Evidence of Award may provide that if a Participant, either during employment by the Company or a Subsidiary or within a specified period after termination of such employment, will engage in any Detrimental Activity, and the Board will so find, forthwith upon notice of such finding, the Participant will:
Detrimental Activity.
          (a) Forfeit any award granted under this Plan then held by the Participant;
          (b) Return to the Company, in exchange for payment by the Company of any amount actually paid therefor by the Participant, all Common Shares that the Participant has not disposed of that were offered pursuant to this Plan within a specified period prior to the date of the commencement of such Detrimental Activity, and
          (c) With respect to any Common Shares so acquired that the Participant has disposed of, pay to the Company in cash the difference between:
          (d) To the extent that such amounts are not paid to the Company, the Company may set off the amounts so payable to it against any amounts that may be owing from time to time by the Company or a Subsidiary to the Participant, whether as wages, deferred compensation or vacation pay or in the form of any other benefit or for any other reason.
In addition, notwithstanding anything in the Plan to the contrary, any Evidence of Award may provide for the cancellation or forfeiture of an award or the forfeiture and repayment to the
 
Company of any gain related to an award, or other provisions intended to have a similar effect, upon such terms and conditions as may be determined by the Board from time to time.
     15. In order to facilitate the making of any grant or combination of grants under this Plan, the Board may provide for such special terms for awards to Participants who are foreign nationals or who are employed by the Company or any Subsidiary outside of the United States of America or who provide services to the Company under an agreement with a foreign nation or agency, as the Board may consider necessary or appropriate to accommodate differences in local law, tax policy or custom. Moreover, the Board may approve such supplements to or amendments, restatements or alternative versions of this Plan (including, without limitation, sub-plans) as it may consider necessary or appropriate for such purposes, without thereby affecting the terms of this Plan as in effect for any other purpose, and the Secretary or other appropriate officer of the Company may certify any such document as having been approved and adopted in the same manner as this Plan. No such special terms, supplements, amendments or restatements, however, will include any provisions that are inconsistent with the terms of this Plan as then in effect unless this Plan could have been amended to eliminate such inconsistency without further approval by the shareholders of the Company.
Non U.S. Participants.
     16. 
Transferability.
          (a) Except as otherwise determined by the Board, no Option Right, Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock, Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Share, Performance Unit, Cash Incentive Award, award contemplated by Section 9 or 10 of this Plan or dividend equivalents paid with respect to awards made under the Plan will be transferable by the Participant except by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and in no event will any such award granted under the Plan be transferred for value. Except as otherwise determined by the Board, Option Rights and Appreciation Rights will be exercisable during the Participant's lifetime only by him or her or, in the event of the Participant's legal incapacity to do so, by his or her guardian or legal representative acting on behalf of the Participant in a fiduciary capacity under state law or court supervision.
          (b) The Board may specify at the Date of Grant that part or all of the Common Shares that are (i) to be issued or transferred by the Company upon the exercise of Option Rights or Appreciation Rights, upon the termination of the Restriction Period applicable to Restricted Stock Units or upon payment under any grant of Performance Shares or Performance Units or (ii) no longer subject to the substantial risk of forfeiture and restrictions on transfer referred to in Section 6 of this Plan, will be subject to further restrictions on transfer.
     17. To the extent that the Company is required to withhold federal, state, local or foreign taxes in connection with any payment made or benefit realized by a Participant or other person under this Plan, and the amounts available to the Company for such withholding are insufficient, it will be a condition to the receipt of such payment or the realization of such benefit that the Participant or such other person make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for payment of the balance of such taxes required to be withheld, which arrangements (in the discretion of the Board) may include relinquishment of a portion of such benefit. If a Participant's benefit is to be received in the form of Common Shares, and such
Withholding Taxes.
 
Participant fails to make arrangements for the payment of tax, the Company will withhold such Common Shares having a value equal to the amount required to be withheld. Notwithstanding the foregoing, when a Participant is required to pay the Company an amount required to be withheld under applicable income and employment tax laws, the Participant may elect to satisfy the obligation, in whole or in part, by electing to have withheld, from the shares required to be delivered to the Participant, Common Shares having a value equal to the amount required to be withheld (except in the case of Restricted Stock where an election under Section 83(b) of the Code has been made), or by delivering to the Company other Common Shares held by such Participant. The shares used for tax withholding will be valued at an amount equal to the Market Value per Share of such Common Shares on the date the benefit is to be included in Participant's income. In no event will the Market Value per Share of the Common Shares to be withheld and delivered pursuant to this Section to satisfy applicable withholding taxes in connection with the benefit exceed the minimum amount of taxes required to be withheld. Participants will also make such arrangements as the Company may require for the payment of any withholding tax obligation that may arise in connection with the disposition of Common Shares acquired upon the exercise of Option Rights.
     18. 
Compliance with Section 409A of the Code.
          (a) To the extent applicable, it is intended that this Plan and any grants made hereunder comply with the provisions of Section 409A of the Code, so that the income inclusion provisions of Section 409A(a)(1) of the Code do not apply to the Participants. This Plan and any grants made hereunder will be administered in a manner consistent with this intent. Any reference in this Plan to Section 409A of the Code will also include any regulations or any other formal guidance promulgated with respect to such Section by the U.S. Department of the Treasury or the Internal Revenue Service.
          (b) Neither a Participant nor any of a Participant's creditors or beneficiaries will have the right to subject any deferred compensation (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code) payable under this Plan and grants hereunder to any anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, attachment or garnishment. Except as permitted under Section 409A of the Code, any deferred compensation (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code) payable to a Participant or for a Participant's benefit under this Plan and grants hereunder may not be reduced by, or offset against, any amount owing by a Participant to the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.
          (c) If, at the time of a Participant's separation from service (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code), (i) the Participant will be a specified employee (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code and using the identification methodology selected by the Company from time to time) and (ii) the Company makes a good faith determination that an amount payable hereunder constitutes deferred compensation (within the meaning of Section 409A of the Code) the payment of which is required to be delayed pursuant to the six-month delay rule set forth in Section 409A of the Code in order to avoid taxes or penalties under Section 409A of the Code, then the Company will not pay such amount on the otherwise scheduled payment date but will instead pay it, without interest, on the tenth business day of the seventh month after such separation from service.
 
          (d) Notwithstanding any provision of this Plan and grants hereunder to the contrary, in light of the uncertainty with respect to the proper application of Section 409A of the Code, the Company reserves the right to make amendments to this Plan and grants hereunder as the Company deems necessary or desirable to avoid the imposition of taxes or penalties under Section 409A of the Code. In any case, a Participant will be solely responsible and liable for the satisfaction of all taxes and penalties that may be imposed on a Participant or for a Participant's account in connection with this Plan and grants hereunder (including any taxes and penalties under Section 409A of the Code), and neither the Company nor any of its affiliates will have any obligation to indemnify or otherwise hold a Participant harmless from any or all of such taxes or penalties.
     19. 
Amendments.
          (a) The Board may at any time and from time to time amend this Plan in whole or in part; , , that if an amendment to this Plan (i) would materially increase the benefits accruing to participants under this Plan, (ii) would materially increase the number of Common Shares which may be issued under this Plan, (iii) would materially modify the requirements for participation in this Plan, or (iv) must otherwise be approved by the shareholders of the Company in order to comply with applicable law or the rules of the New York Stock Exchange or, if the Common Shares are not traded on the New York Stock Exchange, the principal national securities exchange upon which the Common Shares are traded or quoted, then, such amendment will be subject to shareholder approval and will not be effective unless and until such approval has been obtained.
provided
however
          (b) Except in connection with a corporate transaction or event described in Section 12 of this Plan, the terms of outstanding awards may not be amended to reduce the Option Price of outstanding Option Rights or the Base Price of outstanding Appreciation Rights, or cancel outstanding Option Rights or Appreciation Rights in exchange for cash, other awards or Option Rights or Appreciation Rights with an Option Price or Base Price, as applicable, that is less than the Option Price of the original Option Rights or Base Price of the original Appreciation Rights, as applicable, without shareholder approval. This Section 19(b) is intended to prohibit the repricing of "underwater" Option Rights and Appreciation Rights and will not be construed to prohibit the adjustments provided for in Section 12 of this Plan.
          (c) If permitted by Section 409A of the Code and Section 162(m) of the Code, but subject to the paragraph that follows, in the case of involuntary termination of employment or termination of employment by reason of death, disability, retirement, closing of business or operation units, or elimination of job position, or in the case of unforeseeable emergency or other special circumstances (including reaching reasonable age and service requirements approved by the Board from time to time), of or relating to a Participant who holds an Option Right or Appreciation Right not immediately exercisable in full, or any shares of Restricted Stock as to which the substantial risk of forfeiture or the prohibition or restriction on transfer has not lapsed, or any Restricted Stock Units as to which the Restriction Period has not been completed, or any Cash Incentive Awards, Performance Shares or Performance Units which have not been fully earned, or any other awards made pursuant to Section 10 subject to any vesting schedule or transfer restriction, or who holds Common Shares subject to any transfer restriction imposed pursuant to Section 16(b) of this Plan, the Board may, in its sole discretion, accelerate the time at
 
which such Option Right, Appreciation Right or other award may be exercised or the time at which such substantial risk of forfeiture or prohibition or restriction on transfer will lapse or the time when such Restriction Period will end or the time at which such Cash Incentive Awards, Performance Shares or Performance Units will be deemed to have been fully earned or the time when such transfer restriction will terminate or may waive any other limitation or requirement under any such award except in the case of a Qualified Performance-Based Award where such action would result in the loss of the otherwise available exemption of the award under Section 162(m) of the Code.
Subject to Section 19(b) hereof, the Board may amend the terms of any award theretofore granted under this Plan prospectively or retroactively, except in the case of a Qualified Performance-Based Award (other than in connection with the Participant's death or disability, or a Change of Control) where such action would result in the loss of the otherwise available exemption of the award under Section 162(m) of the Code. In such case, the Board will not make any modification of the Management Objectives or the level or levels of achievement with respect to such Qualified Performance-Based Award. Subject to Section 12 above, no such amendment will impair the rights of any Participant without his or her consent. The Board may, in its discretion, terminate this Plan at any time. Termination of this Plan will not affect the rights of Participants or their successors under any awards outstanding hereunder and not exercised in full on the date of termination.
     20. This Plan and all grants and awards and actions taken hereunder will be governed by and construed in accordance with the internal substantive laws of the State of Ohio.
Governing Law.
     21. This Plan will be effective as of the Effective Date. No grants will be made on or after November 7, 2010 (provided that this Plan is approved by the shareholders of the Company prior to or on such date) under the Existing Plan, except that outstanding awards granted under the Existing Plan will continue unaffected following such date. No grant will be made under this Plan more than 10 years after November 7, 2010, but all grants made on or prior to such date will continue in effect thereafter subject to the terms thereof and of this Plan.
Effective Date/Termination.
     22. 
Miscellaneous Provisions.
          (a) The Company will not be required to issue any fractional Common Shares pursuant to this Plan. The Board may provide for the elimination of fractions or for the settlement of fractions in cash.
          (b) This Plan will not confer upon any Participant any right with respect to continuance of employment or other service with the Company or any Subsidiary, nor will it interfere in any way with any right the Company or any Subsidiary would otherwise have to terminate such Participant's employment or other service at any time.
          (c) To the extent that any provision of this Plan would prevent any Option Right that was intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option from qualifying as such, that provision will be null and void with respect to such Option Right. Such provision, however, will
 
remain in effect for other Option Rights and there will be no further effect on any provision of this Plan.
          (d) No award under this Plan may be exercised by the holder thereof if such exercise, and the receipt of stock thereunder, would be, in the opinion of counsel selected by the Board, contrary to law or the regulations of any duly constituted authority having jurisdiction over this Plan.
          (e) Absence on leave approved by a duly constituted officer of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries will not be considered interruption or termination of service of any employee for any purposes of this Plan or awards granted hereunder, except that no awards may be granted to an employee while he or she is absent on leave.
          (f) No Participant will have any rights as a stockholder with respect to any shares subject to awards granted to him or her under this Plan prior to the date as of which he or she is actually recorded as the holder of such shares upon the stock records of the Company.
          (g) The Board may condition the grant of any award or combination of awards authorized under this Plan on the surrender or deferral by the Participant of his or her right to receive a cash bonus or other compensation otherwise payable by the Company or a Subsidiary to the Participant.
          (h) Except with respect to Option Rights and Appreciation Rights, the Board may permit Participants to elect to defer the issuance of Common Shares under the Plan pursuant to such rules, procedures or programs as it may establish for purposes of this Plan and which are intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code. The Board also may provide that deferred issuances and settlements include the payment or crediting of dividend equivalents or interest on the deferral amounts.
          (i) If any provision of this Plan is or becomes invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, or would disqualify this Plan or any award under any law deemed applicable by the Board, such provision will be construed or deemed amended or limited in scope to conform to applicable laws or, in the discretion of the Board, it will be stricken and the remainder of this Plan will remain in full force and effect.


