FILE:SJM/SJM-8K-20110127171539.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 is a copy of a press release issued by The J. M. Smucker Company, dated January 27, 2011. The information in this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. Exhibit Number - Description 99.1 - Press Release issued by The J. M. Smucker Company, dated January 27, 2011.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

For Immediate Release
The J. M. Smucker Company Announces Dividend Increase and Additional Shares for Repurchase Authorized by the Board of Directors
ORRVILLE, Ohio, January 27, 2011 The J. M. Smucker Company (NYSE: SJM) today announced that its Board of Directors (the "Board") approved an increase in its quarterly dividend from $0.40 to $0.44 per common share, an increase of 10 percent. The dividend is payable on Tuesday, March 1, 2011, to shareholders of record at the close of business on Friday, February 11, 2011.
The increase in the dividend is occurring one quarter earlier than the Company's historical timing of an April announcement for dividends payable in June. Beginning in fiscal 2012, the Company expects future dividend adjustments will initially be considered by the Board for dividends payable in September of each year. The overall timing of the quarterly dividend payments in March, June, September and December is not expected to change.
In other actions, the Board increased the Company's share repurchase authorization by five million common shares. Future share repurchases will occur at management's discretion, and there is no guarantee as to the exact number of shares that may be repurchased. The Company further announced that during its current fiscal quarter, it had completed the repurchase of approximately 3.7 million common shares previously authorized for repurchase by the Board and covered by a Rule 10b5-1 trading plan.
"We are pleased with the Board's actions to increase the quarterly dividend and authorize additional shares to be repurchased," commented Tim Smucker, Chairman of the Board and Co-Chief Executive Officer. "These actions indicate the confidence we have in our business and the strong cash flows it generates. We continue to evaluate opportunities to return value to our shareholders and these actions demonstrate our ability to deliver on that objective."
For more than 110 years, The J. M. Smucker Company has been committed to offering consumers quality products that help families create memorable mealtime moments. Today, Smucker is a leading marketer and manufacturer of fruit spreads, retail packaged coffee, peanut butter, shortening and oils, ice cream toppings, sweetened condensed milk, and health and natural foods beverages in North America. Its family of brands includes , , , , , , , , ,  and  in the United States, along with , , ,  and  in Canada. The Company remains rooted in the Basic Beliefs of Quality, People, Ethics, Growth and Independence established by its founder and namesake more than a century ago. The Company has appeared on FORTUNE Magazine's list of the 100 Best Companies to Work For in the United States 13 times, ranking number one in 2004. For more information about the Company, visit .
About The J. M. Smucker Company
Smucker's
Folgers
Dunkin' Donuts
Jif
Crisco
Pillsbury
Eagle Brand
R.W. Knudsen Family
Hungry Jack
White Lily
Martha White
Robin Hood
Five Roses
Carnation
Europe's Best
Bick's
www.smuckers.com
The J. M. Smucker Company is the owner of all trademarks, except , the Barrelhead logo and the Doughboy character are trademarks of The Pillsbury Company LLC, used under license;  is a trademark of Societe des Produits Nestle S.A., used under license; and  is a registered trademark of DD IP Holder LLC used under license. Borden and Elsie are trademarks used under license.
Pillsbury
Carnation
Dunkin' Donuts
This press release contains forward-looking statements that are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements. Readers should understand that the risks, uncertainties, factors, and assumptions listed and discussed in this press release, including the following important factors and assumptions, could affect the future results of the Company and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements:
The J. M. Smucker Company Forward-Looking Language
Readers are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made, when evaluating the information presented in this press release. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect new events or circumstances.
The J. M. Smucker Company (330) 682-3000
Contacts:
Investors: Sonal Robinson Vice President, Investor Relations
Media: Maribeth Badertscher Vice President, Corporate Communications


