FILE:SJM/SJM-8K-20110308090955.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b)           On March 8, 2011, The J. M. Smucker Company (the Company) issued a press release announcing that, effective August 16, 2011, Richard K. Smucker, Executive Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer of the Company, will be the sole Chief Executive Officer of the Company.  Richard K. Smucker will no longer serve as the Executive Chairman of the Company but will continue to serve as a member of the Board of Directors (the Board).  Effective August 16, 2011, Timothy P. Smucker, Chairman of the Board and Co-Chief Executive Officer of the Company, will no longer serve as a Co-Chief Executive Officer but will continue to serve as Chairman of the Board.
(c)           On March 8, 2011, the Company also announced that, effective May 1, 2011, Vincent C. Byrd, 56, the Companys President, U.S. Retail  Coffee, will assume the position of President and Chief Operating Officer.  Mr. Byrd will continue to serve as a member of the Board, a position he has held since April 1999.  Mr. Byrd has been the Companys President, U.S. Retail  Coffee since 2008 and, prior to that time, he served as the Senior Vice President, Consumer Market since February 2004.Mr. Byrd is also a director, and a member of the audit and compensation committees, of Myers Industries, Inc., a publicly traded international manufacturer of polymer products for industrial, agricultural, automotive, commercial, and consumer markets.
 
There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Byrd and any other persons pursuant to which he was elected to his new position with the Company, and there is no family relationship between Mr. Byrd and any directors or executive officers of the Company.  Mr. Byrd is not currently engaged, and has not during the last fiscal year been engaged, in any transactions with the Company or its subsidiaries that are required to be disclosed under Item 404(a) of Regulation S-K, nor have any such transactions been proposed.
Item 8.01  Other Events.
 
On March 8, 2011, the Company also announced that, effective May 1, 2011, Mark T. Smucker, President, Special Markets, will assume the position of President, U.S. Retail Coffee; Paul Smucker Wagstaff, President, U.S. Retail  Oils and Baking, will assume the position of President, U.S. Retail Consumer Foods; Barry C. Dunaway, Senior Vice President, Corporate and Organization Development, will assume the position of Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer; and Steven Oakland, President, U.S. Retail  , and , will assume the position of President, International, Foodservice and Natural Foods.
Smuckers
Jif
Hungry Jack
A copy of the press release issued by the Company, dated March 8, 2011, announcing these organizational changes is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this Item 8.01.
 
 
 
Item 9.01  Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d)           Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date:   March 8, 2011
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 

The J. M. Smucker Company Announces Executive Appointments
ORRVILLE, Ohio, March 8, 2011 /PRNewswire/ -- The J. M. Smucker Company (NYSE: SJM) today announced several executive appointments by its Board of Directors that are consistent with the Company's long-term succession planning and development of family leadership.
Effective August 16, 2011, Richard K. Smucker will become the sole Chief Executive Officer of the Company.  Timothy P. Smucker will continue to serve the Company as Chairman of the Board.
The Board of Directors also approved the following additional executive appointments and realignment of responsibilities effective May 1, 2011:
Vincent C. Byrd will assume the role of President and Chief Operating Officer (COO) with responsibility for the Company's U.S. retail businesses.  In this role, Mr. Byrd will oversee U.S. marketing, sales and supply chain functions.  Mr. Byrd has 34 years experience with the Company serving in a number of key positions throughout the organization.  He currently serves as President, U.S. Retail Coffee.
Mark T. Smucker will assume the role of President, U.S. Retail Coffee.  Mr. Smucker most recently held the position of President, Special Markets and has served in leadership roles within the Company for 14 years.
Paul Smucker Wagstaff will assume the role of President, U.S. Retail Consumer Foods in a newly consolidated business area combining the current consumer ,  and  business with the Oils and Baking business.  Mr. Wagstaff has 15 years of leadership experience within the Company.
Smucker's
Jif
Hungry Jack
Mr. Smucker and Mr. Wagstaff will report to Mr. Byrd.
Steven Oakland currently President, ,  and  will assume the role of President, International, Foodservice and Natural Foods.  Mr. Oakland has been with Smucker for 28 years and has experience in the U.S. Retail, International and Foodservice business areas.
Smucker's
Jif
Hungry Jack
Barry C. Dunaway, Senior Vice President Corporate and Organization Development, with 24 years experience with the Company, will assume the role of Senior Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer (CAO).  In this new role, Mr. Dunaway will oversee the Company's Human Resources, Legal, Corporate Development and Information Services departments.
Mark R. Belgya will continue serving the Company as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (CFO) with responsibility for Accounting, Investor Relations, Financial Planning, Tax and Treasury and will assume additional responsibility for Internal Audit.  Mr. Belgya has been with Smucker for 26 years.
"Continuity of leadership has been a primary factor behind our Company's success and remains a key element of the succession planning that ensures the development of future Company leaders," said Tim Smucker, Chairman of the Board and Co-Chief Executive Officer.  "The changes announced today reinforce our commitment to maintain our Company's heritage and unique culture, while continuing to support the long-term interests of our constituents  consumers, customers, employees, suppliers, communities and shareholders."
"This leadership team embodies the values that have contributed to our success, allowing us to deliver consistent, record, long-term results," stated Richard Smucker, Executive Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer.  "We are confident in their proven abilities and in the talent of all of our employees to continue to strengthen and grow our Company."
About The J. M. Smucker Company
For more than 110 years, The J. M. Smucker Company has been committed to offering consumers quality products that help families create memorable mealtime moments.  Today, Smucker is a leading marketer and manufacturer of fruit spreads, retail packaged coffee, peanut butter, shortening and oils, ice cream toppings, sweetened condensed milk, and health and natural foods beverages in North America.  Its family of brands includes Smucker's, Folgers, Dunkin' Donuts, Jif, Crisco, Pillsbury, Eagle Brand, R.W. Knudsen Family, Hungry Jack, White Lily and Martha White in the United States, along with Robin Hood, Five Roses, Carnation, Europe's Best and Bick's in Canada.  The Company remains rooted in the Basic Beliefs of Quality, People, Ethics, Growth and Independence established by its founder and namesake more than a century ago.  The Company has appeared on FORTUNE Magazine's list of the 100 Best Companies to Work For in the United States 13 times, ranking number one in 2004. For more information about the Company, visit www.smuckers.com.
The J. M. Smucker Company is the owner of all trademarks, except Pillsbury,the Barrelhead logo and the Doughboy character are trademarks of The Pillsbury Company, LLC, used under license; Carnationis a trademark of Societe des Produits Nestle S.A., used under license; and Dunkin' Donutsis a registered trademark of DD IP Holder, LLC, used under license.  Borden and Elsie are trademarks used under license.
(Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20071219/SMUCKERLOGO)
CONTACT:  Investors:  Sonal Robinson, Vice President, Investor Relations, or Media: Maribeth Badertscher, Vice President, Corporate Communications, both of The J. M. Smucker Company, +1-330-682-3000


