FILE:SJM/SJM-8K-20110719171641.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As was announced in The J. M. Smucker Company's (the "Company") press release dated March 8, 2011, the Board of Directors approved the following executive appointments and realignment of responsibilities, which became effective May 1, 2011:
 
 
 
 
While the Company's calculation of segment profit will remain the same for fiscal 2012, the Company's reportable segments will be modified to align segment financial results with the responsibilities of segment management. Effective May 1, 2011, the Company will present the following three reportable segments: U.S. Retail Coffee, U.S. Retail Consumer Foods, and International, Foodservice and Natural Foods. The new U.S. Retail Consumer Foods reportable segment is a combination of the former U.S. Retail Consumer and U.S. Retail Oils and Baking reportable segments.
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K are the unaudited net sales and segment profit calculations for the quarterly periods in fiscal 2011 and 2010 modified to reflect the realigned reportable segments.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 


