FILE:SJM/SJM-8K-20111024082622.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
The J. M. Smucker Company (the "Company") today announced the signing of a definitive agreement to acquire a majority of the North American foodservice coffee and hot beverage business of Sara Lee Corporation ("Sara Lee"), a leading international coffee and tea company. The acquisition includes Sara Lees market-leading liquid coffee concentrate business sold under the licensed Douwe Egberts brand, along with a variety of roast and ground coffee, cappuccino, tea, and cocoa products, sold through foodservice channels in North America. In addition, the companies agreed to collaborate on liquid coffee technology by entering into a long-term foodservice innovation partnership. Attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 is a copy of the press release issued by The J. M. Smucker Company, dated October 24, 2011. The information in this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. Exhibit Number Description 99.1 Press Release issued by The J. M. Smucker Company, dated October 24, 2011.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

For Immediate Release
The J. M. Smucker Company to Acquire a Majority of Sara Lee Corporation's North American Foodservice Coffee Business
ORRVILLE, Ohio, October 24, 2011 The J. M. Smucker Company (NYSE: SJM) today announced the signing of a definitive agreement to acquire a majority of the North American foodservice coffee and hot beverage business of Sara Lee Corporation ("Sara Lee"), a leading international coffee and tea company.
The acquisition includes Sara Lee's market-leading liquid coffee concentrate business sold under the licensed  brand, along with a variety of roast and ground coffee, cappuccino, tea, and cocoa products, sold through foodservice channels in North America. Liquid coffee concentrate adds a unique, high quality, and technology driven form of coffee to the Company's existing foodservice product offering. In addition, the companies agreed to collaborate on liquid coffee technology by entering into a long-term foodservice innovation partnership. The acquisition is expected to add annual net sales of approximately $285 million to the Company.
Douwe Egberts
"This transaction further strengthens our position as a leading North American coffee company," said Richard Smucker, Chief Executive Officer. "The addition of liquid coffee concentrate to the Smucker portfolio aligns with our desire to compete in all forms of coffee, adding to our roast and ground, single serve, instant, and ready-to-drink platforms. The innovation partnership further allows us to collaborate on new technologies in the liquid coffee category for the foodservice market."
"This enabling acquisition adds significant scale to our foodservice business," added Steven Oakland, President, International, Foodservice and Natural Foods. "The transaction nearly doubles the size of our foodservice business, provides new coffee technologies, and adds a foodservice coffee direct sales force to our team, ultimately allowing us to extend our reach and enhance our relevance within away-from-home channels."
The closing of the transaction will add approximately 450 employees to the Company, including sales, marketing, finance, customer service, and administrative functions located in the U.S., Canada, and Mexico; a state-of-the-art liquid coffee manufacturing facility in Suffolk, Virginia; a leased roast and ground coffee manufacturing facility in Harahan, Louisiana; and coffee equipment and service teams located throughout North America. In addition to licensing the  brand, the Company will also license the  and  brands.
Douwe Egberts
Cafitesse
Pickwick
Terms of the deal call for $350 million to be paid at time of closing, with an additional $50 million paid in declining installments over the next ten years. The Company anticipates completing the all cash transaction near the beginning of calendar 2012.
Based on the anticipated closing date, the transaction is expected to contribute approximately $100 million to net sales in fiscal 2012, and is not expected to have a material impact on earnings per share, excluding one-time costs of the transaction. One-time costs are estimated to total approximately $25 million, nearly all of which are cash related. Approximately one-third of these one-time costs are expected to be incurred in fiscal 2012, with the remaining incurred through fiscal 2015.
On a full year basis, the transaction is expected to generate earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization of approximately $70 million to $75 million, excluding one-time costs of the transaction. The business is expected to contribute approximately $0.10 of earnings per diluted common share, also excluding one-time costs. Annual amortization expense is estimated to be approximately $15 million to $20 million.
For more than 110 years, The J. M. Smucker Company has been committed to offering consumers quality products that bring families together to share memorable meals and moments. Today, Smucker is a leading marketer and manufacturer of fruit spreads, retail packaged coffee, peanut butter, shortening and oils, ice cream toppings, sweetened condensed milk, and health and natural foods beverages in North America. Its family of brands includes , , , , , , , , , , ,  and  in the United States, along with , ,  and  in Canada. The Company remains rooted in the Basic Beliefs of Quality, People, Ethics, Growth, and Independence established by its founder and namesake more than a century ago. The Company has appeared on FORTUNE Magazine's list of the 100 Best Companies to Work For in the United States 13 times, ranking number one in 2004. For more information about the Company, visit .
About The J. M. Smucker Company
Smucker's
Folgers
Dunkin' Donuts
Jif
Crisco
Pillsbury
Eagle Brand
R.W. Knudsen Family
Hungry Jack
Caf Bustelo
Caf Pilon
TM
White Lily
Martha White
Robin Hood
Five Roses
Carnation
Bick's
www.smuckers.com
The J. M. Smucker Company is the owner of all trademarks, except the Barrelhead logo and the Doughboy character are trademarks of The Pillsbury Company, LLC, used under license; is a trademark of Socit des Produits Nestl S.A., used under license; and is a registered trademark of DD IP Holder, LLC, used under license. and Elsie are trademarks used under license.
Pillsbury,
Carnation
Dunkin' Donuts
Borden
brand is licensed to The J. M. Smucker Company for packaged coffee products sold in retail channels such as grocery stores, mass merchandisers, club stores, and drug stores. This information does not pertain to  coffee or other products for sale in  restaurants.  and  are trademarks of Keurig, Incorporated.
Dunkin' Donuts
Dunkin' Donuts
Dunkin' Donuts
K-Cup
K-Cups
This press release contains forward-looking statements, such as projected operating results, earnings and cash flows, that are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements. Readers should understand that the risks, uncertainties, factors, and assumptions listed and discussed in this press release, including the following important factors and assumptions, could affect the future results of the Company and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements:
The J. M. Smucker Company Forward-Looking Language
Readers are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made, when evaluating the information presented in this press release. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect new events or circumstances.
The J. M. Smucker Company (330) 682-3000
Contacts:
Investors: Sonal Robinson Vice President, Investor Relations
Media: Maribeth Badertscher Vice President, Corporate Communications


