FILE:SJM/SJM-8K-20110425172425.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
(e) Amendments to Amended and Restated Consulting and Noncompete Agreements of Timothy P. Smucker and Richard K. Smucker.
     On April 25, 2011, The J. M. Smucker Company (the "Company") and each of Messrs. Timothy P. Smucker and Richard K. Smucker entered into amendments terminating substantially all of the provisions of each executive's Amended and Restated Consulting and Noncompete Agreement, dated December 31, 2010 (the "Consulting Agreements").
     The amendments are identical in all material respects, and provide that each executive's right to receive his monthly retirement benefit or death benefit under the Company's Top Management Supplemental Retirement Benefit Plan as of the third anniversary of his disability, death or separation from service, will remain in full force as provided in the Consulting Agreements. All other provisions of the Consulting Agreements, including all rights to continuation of salary, bonus, vesting of options and restricted shares, and each executive's confidentiality, nonsolicitation and noncompetition obligations following his separation from service, have been terminated. The amendments do not terminate any similar obligations each executive may have arising under any other agreement, plan, program or arrangement with the Company, or by operation of law.
First Amendment to The J. M. Smucker Company Top Management Supplemental Retirement Plan.
     On April 21, 2011, the Company amended The J. M. Smucker Company Top Management Supplemental Retirement Plan (as so amended, the "Amended SERP"). The Amended SERP provides that, to the extent payment of any benefit under the Amended SERP is delayed beyond the later of the participant reaching age 55 or the participant's separation from service, such benefit will be adjusted (i) with interest, if payable as a lump sum, and (ii) actuarially, if payable as an annuity, all as determined in accordance with the Amended SERP. This change takes into account the fact that Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code imposes a delay on benefit commencement in certain cases.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Date: April 25, 2011
 

Exhibit 10.1
     WHEREAS, The J.M. Smucker Company (the "Company") entered into a letter agreement with Timothy P. Smucker ("Mr. Smucker"), dated May 1, 2002, as amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2005 and January 1, 2009 (on December 31, 2010) (the "Consulting Agreement"); and
     WHEREAS, Section 15 of the Consulting Agreement provides that the Consulting Agreement may be amended only with the written consent of the parties; and
     WHEREAS, the parties now desire to substantially terminate the Consulting Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE, in accordance with Section 15 of the Consulting Agreement, substantially all of the Consulting Agreement is amended and terminated, effective as of April 25, 2011, as follows:
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Termination Amendment to be executed, effective as of the date set forth above.

Exhibit 10.2
     WHEREAS, The J.M. Smucker Company (the "Company") entered into a letter agreement with Richard K. Smucker ("Mr. Smucker"), dated May 1, 2002, as amended and restated effective as of January 1, 2005 and January 1, 2009 (on December 31, 2010) (the "Consulting Agreement"); and
     WHEREAS, Section 15 of the Consulting Agreement provides that the Consulting Agreement may be amended only with the written consent of the parties; and
     WHEREAS, the parties now desire to substantially terminate the Consulting Agreement;
     NOW THEREFORE, in accordance with Section 15 of the Consulting Agreement, substantially all of the Consulting Agreement is amended and terminated, effective as of April 25, 2011, as follows:
 
     IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have caused this Termination Amendment to be executed, effective as of the date set forth above.

Exhibit 10.3
The J. M. Smucker Company Top Management Supplemental Retirement Plan, established effective January 1, 1985, as amended and restated effective as of May 1, 1994, May 1, 1999, January 1, 2005 and January 1, 2009 (the "Plan"), hereby is amended further on this 21 day of April, 2011, generally effective January 1, 2011;
st
WHEREAS, The J. M. Smucker Company (the "Company") desires to amend the Plan to address calculation of benefits which are delayed after Separation from Service (including without limitation, as a result of the imposition of the 5 year delay imposed if a participant elects to change the time or form of benefit), and clarify both the impact of a lump sum election and the interest rate used in determining such lump sum;
NOW, THEREFORE, the Plan is hereby amended as follows:
2. Section 2.6 is amended by revising the caption to read "Single Lump Sum Form of Payment and Adjustment for Delay," by deleting the last sentence of such Section 2.6 and by the addition of the following text at the end thereof:
The Participant shall receive a payment in a single lump sum in an amount equal, except as provided below, to the Actuarial Equivalent, determined in accordance with Section 1.12 of the Plan, of the benefit that would otherwise have been payable to the Participant at the "Benefit Target Date" as defined below.
To the extent that commencement of any vested benefit in any form under this Plan (including a death benefit to which Article III applies)is delayed beyond the "Benefit Target Date," which shall be the first day of the month following the latest of:
 
including if such delay is as a result of Section 8.15 regarding the six-month delay for Specified Employees, then such benefit shall be adjusted (the "Adjusted Benefit") for such delay by:
 
This provision, and any adjustment under it, shall apply to the total value of any benefit so delayed, but such adjustment shall not change the dollar amount (or the time or form) of the participant's benefit which constitutes a Grandfathered Benefit hereunder (so that the total amount of any increase pursuant to such adjustment shall constitute a new benefit, over and above any Grandfathered Benefit hereunder, and any Grandfathered Benefit shall be unaffected, continue to be entitled to grandfather treatment and remain subject to the provisions of Addendum I).
     3.1 If a Participant should die prior to the commencement of benefit payments under the Plan, no benefits shall be payable under this Plan except as provided pursuant to this Article III (which shall be applied taking into account Section 2.6 hereof).
     Executed at Orrville, Ohio effective as of the date provided above.


