FILE:SJM/SJM-8K-20110516160641.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]  Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425) [  ]  Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)) [  ]  Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Top of the Form
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
On May 16, 2011, The J. M. Smucker Company announced that it has completed an acquisition of the coffee brands and business operations of Rowland Coffee Roasters, Inc., a private company headquartered in Miami, Florida. Attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 is a copy of the press release issued by The J. M. Smucker Company, dated May 16, 2011. The information in this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. Exhibit Number - Description 99.1 - Press Release issued by The J. M. Smucker Company, dated May 16, 2011.
Top of the Form
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Top of the Form

For Immediate Release
The J. M. Smucker Company Acquires Leading Hispanic Brands from Rowland Coffee Roasters
ORRVILLE, Ohio, May 16, 2011 The J. M. Smucker Company (NYSE: SJM) today announced that it has completed an acquisition of the coffee brands and business operations of Rowland Coffee Roasters, Inc. ("Rowland Coffee"), a privately-held company headquartered in Miami, Florida.
Rowland Coffee's products are primarily sold under the leading Hispanic and brands with distribution in retail and foodservice channels concentrated in the northeastern U.S. and southern Florida. It is a leading producer of espresso coffee in the U.S., generating total net sales in excess of $110 million in calendar 2010. The acquisition includes a manufacturing, distribution, and office facility in Miami.
Caf Bustelo
Caf Pilon
"This acquisition strengthens and broadens the breadth of our leadership in the U.S. retail coffee category," said Richard Smucker, Executive Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer. "The addition of the and coffee brands, each with a rich heritage, provides us with a unique opportunity to establish a strong presence in coffee with Hispanic consumers in the U.S."
Caf Bustelo
Caf Pilon
"This is an exciting bolt-on transaction and a good strategic fit for our Company," said Vince Byrd, President and Chief Operating Officer. "The acquisition is expected to be accretive in fiscal 2012, and provides our coffee business with greater scale and reach. Our proven ability to leverage our existing infrastructure will provide additional growth opportunities for these trusted brands."
The Company completed the $360 million transaction with cash on hand and borrowings under its existing credit facility. The transaction is expected to contribute approximately $0.05 per diluted common share to fiscal 2012 earnings, excluding one-time costs of the transaction.
The Company intends to leverage its existing coffee infrastructure to expand distribution and marketing support of the acquired brands. Manufacturing operations are expected to be consolidated into the Company's existing coffee facilities in New Orleans, Louisiana, in approximately three years. The consolidation of operations is expected to achieve additional cost savings of approximately $0.10 per diluted common share in the first full year after completion of consolidation, excluding one-time costs.
One-time costs of the acquisition are estimated to total $25 million to $30 million, including approximately $15 million of noncash charges associated with closing the Miami facilities. Approximately $10 million of the one-time costs are expected to be incurred in fiscal 2012, with the remaining incurred through 2014.
The Company is currently in its year-end quiet period and, therefore, will answer investor related follow-up questions during its June 9, 2011, fourth quarter and fiscal 2011 earnings conference call.
For more than 110 years, The J. M. Smucker Company has been committed to offering consumers quality products that help families create memorable mealtime moments. Today, Smucker is a leading marketer and manufacturer of fruit spreads, retail packaged coffee, peanut butter, shortening and oils, ice cream toppings, sweetened condensed milk, and health and natural foods beverages in North America. Its family of brands includes , , , , , , , , ,  and  in the United States, along with , , ,  and  in Canada. The Company remains rooted in the Basic Beliefs of Quality, People, Ethics, Growth, and Independence established by its founder and namesake more than a century ago. The Company has appeared on FORTUNE Magazine's list of the 100 Best Companies to Work For in the United States 13 times, ranking number one in 2004. For more information about the Company, visit .
About The J. M. Smucker Company
Smucker's
Folgers
Dunkin' Donuts
Jif
Crisco
Pillsbury
Eagle Brand
R.W. Knudsen Family
Hungry Jack
White Lily
Martha White
Robin Hood
Five Roses
Carnation
Europe's Best
Bick's
www.smuckers.com
The J. M. Smucker Company is the owner of all trademarks, except the Barrelhead logo and the Doughboy character are trademarks of The Pillsbury Company, LLC, used under license;  is a trademark of Socit des Produits Nestl S.A., used under license; and  is a registered trademark of DD IP Holder, LLC, used under license.  and Elsie are trademarks used under license.
Pillsbury
,
Carnation
Dunkin' Donuts
Borden
brand is licensed to The J. M. Smucker Company for packaged coffee products sold in retail channels such as grocery stores, mass merchandisers, club stores, and drug stores. This information does not pertain to  coffee or other products for sale in  restaurants.  and  are trademarks of Keurig, Incorporated.
Dunkin' Donuts
Dunkin' Donuts
Dunkin' Donuts
K-Cup
K-Cups
This press release contains forward-looking statements, such as projected operating results, earnings and cash flows, that are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements. Readers should understand that the risks, uncertainties, factors, and assumptions listed and discussed in this press release, including the following important factors and assumptions, could affect the future results of the Company and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements:
The J. M. Smucker Company Forward-Looking Language
Readers are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made, when evaluating the information presented in this press release. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect new events or circumstances.
The J. M. Smucker Company (330) 682-3000
Contacts:
Investors: Sonal Robinson Vice President, Investor Relations
Media: Maribeth Badertscher Vice President, Corporate Communications


