FILE:SJM/SJM-8K-20120103172049.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code:   
                          
(330) 682-3000                          
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01                      Regulation FD Disclosure.
The J. M. Smucker Company (the Company) today announced that it has completed the acquisition of a majority of the North American foodservice coffee and hot beverage business of Sara Lee Corporation (Sara Lee) in an all cash transaction.  The Company previously announced the agreement with Sara Lee on October 24, 2011.  The acquisition includes Sara Lees market-leading liquid coffee concentrate business sold under the licensed  brand, along with a variety of roast and ground coffee, cappuccino, tea, and cocoa products, sold through foodservice channels in North America.  In addition, the companies entered into a long-term innovation partnership to collaborate on liquid coffee technology for the foodservice market.  Attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 is a copy of the press release issued by The J. M. Smucker Company, dated January 3, 2012.
Douwe Egberts
The information in this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date:           January 3, 2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

The J. M. Smucker Company Completes Acquisition of a Majority of Sara Lee Corporation's North American Foodservice Coffee Business
ORRVILLE, Ohio, Jan. 3, 2012 /PRNewswire/ -- The J. M. Smucker Company (NYSE: SJM) today announced that it has completed the acquisition of a majority of the North American foodservice coffee and hot beverage business of Sara Lee Corporation ("Sara Lee") in an all cash transaction. The Company previously announced the agreement with Sara Lee on October 24, 2011.
The acquisition includes Sara Lee's market-leading liquid coffee concentrate business sold under the licensed  brand, along with a variety of roast and ground coffee, cappuccino, tea, and cocoa products, sold through foodservice channels in North America. In addition, the companies entered into a long-term innovation partnership to collaborate on liquid coffee technology for the foodservice market.
Douwe Egberts
"We are pleased to complete this transaction which adds the market-leading liquid coffee concentrate business to the Smucker portfolio," said Richard Smucker, Chief Executive Officer. "The transaction further strengthens our position as a leading North American coffee company, provides new coffee technologies, and adds significant scale to our foodservice business. We are excited to welcome the nearly 475 new employees into the Smucker family."
About The J. M. Smucker Company
For more than 110 years, The J. M. Smucker Company has been committed to offering consumers quality products that bring families together to share memorable meals and moments. Today, Smucker is a leading marketer and manufacturer of fruit spreads, retail packaged coffee, peanut butter, shortening and oils, ice cream toppings, sweetened condensed milk, and health and natural foods beverages in North America. Its family of brands includes , , , , , , , , , , ,  and  in the United States, along with , ,  and  in Canada. The Company remains rooted in the Basic Beliefs of Quality, People, Ethics, Growth, and Independence established by its founder and namesake more than a century ago. The Company has appeared on FORTUNE Magazine's list of the 100 Best Companies to Work For in the United States 13 times, ranking number one in 2004. For more information about the Company, visit www.smuckers.com.
Smucker's
Folgers
Dunkin' Donuts
Jif
Crisco
Pillsbury
Eagle Brand
R.W. Knudsen Family
Hungry Jack
Cafe Bustelo
Cafe Pilon
White Lily
Martha White
Robin Hood
Five Roses
Carnation
Bick's
The J. M. Smucker Company is the owner of all trademarks, except the Barrelhead logo and the Doughboy character are trademarks of The Pillsbury Company, LLC, used under license; is a trademark of Societe des Produits Nestle S.A., used under license; and is a registered trademark of DD IP Holder, LLC, used under license. and Elsie are trademarks used under license.
Pillsbury,
Carnation
Dunkin' Donuts
Borden
(Logo: http://photos.prnewswire.com/prnh/20071219/SMUCKERLOGO )
CONTACT: The J. M. Smucker Company, +1-330-682-3000; Investors: Sonal Robinson, Vice President, Investor Relations; Media: Maribeth Badertscher, Vice President, Corporate Communications


