FILE:SJM/SJM-8K-20121009092452.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 9, 2012, The J. M. Smucker Company (the "Company") provided the following statement in regard to its coffee business.
Folgers
Although the Company is experiencing a tight supply of certain retail coffee canisters, and has responded by modifying selected promotional activities and actively balancing inventory levels with its customers, the Company views this as a short-term event and is working with its supplier in order to meet demand. The Company further notes that the supply constraints relate to packaging supply and are not due to a shortage in the availability of green coffee. The impact of the packaging supply shortage is not expected to have a material effect on the Company's financial results for the current fiscal year.
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K is being furnished and shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
Forward-Looking Language
This Current Report on Form 8-K contains forward-looking statements that are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements. Readers should understand that the risks, uncertainties, factors, and assumptions listed and discussed in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the following important factors and assumptions, could affect the future results of the Company and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Readers are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made, when evaluating the information presented in this Current Report on Form 8-K. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect new events or circumstances.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 9, 2012


