FILE:SJM/SJM-8K-20120216071543.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, DC 20549
 
 
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported):
February 16, 2012
 
    The J. M. Smucker Company    
(Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)
 
 
 
Registrants telephone number, including area code:
             (330) 682-3000         
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
On February 16, 2012, The J. M. Smucker Company (the Company) issued a press release announcing the Companys financial results for the quarter ended January 31, 2012. A copy of the press release is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The information in this Current Report on Form 8-K, including the exhibit attached hereto, is furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such a filing.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Date:   February 16, 2012
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 

 
 
 
For Immediate Release
 
The J. M. Smucker Company Announces Fiscal 2012 Third Quarter Results
 
 
 
 
 
ORRVILLE, Ohio, February 16, 2012  The J. M. Smucker Company (NYSE: SJM) today announced results for the third quarter ended January 31, 2012, of its 2012 fiscal year. Results for the quarter and nine months ended January 31, 2012, include the operations of Rowland Coffee Roasters, Inc. (Rowland Coffee) and the North American foodservice coffee and hot beverage business acquired from Sara Lee Corporation (Sara Lee business) since the completion of each acquisition on May 16, 2011 and January 3, 2012, respectively.
 
Executive Summary
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Although sales increased 12 percent for the quarter, we were disappointed with overall volume and its impact on earnings, commented Vince Byrd, President and Chief Operating Officer. Despite having strong merchandising programs in place for the holiday period, our volume was lower than expected as a result of our higher price points coupled with lower consumer demand across the food industry. Looking forward, we are encouraged that our share of market remains strong and that commodity costs are moderating, providing opportunities to adjust pricing and promotional activities to better meet the needs of our consumers.
 
While it was a difficult quarter, we remain confident in the strength of our #1 brands and our strategy to position the Company for continued growth, continued Richard Smucker, Chief Executive Officer. Our focus remains on the long term and making strides in growing through product innovations, acquisitions, brand building, and productivity initiatives. We see economic indicators improving, and believe this will further consumer confidence, ultimately allowing consumers to adjust to market conditions.
 
Net Sales
 
 
Amounts may not add due to rounding.
 
Net sales increased 12 percent in the third quarter of 2012, as compared to the third quarter of 2011, driven primarily by the impact of prior pricing actions and acquisitions. The addition of the Rowland Coffee brands earlier in the fiscal year and the Sara Lee business during the most recent quarter contributed $33.0 million and $26.9 million to net sales in the third quarter of 2012, respectively, and combined represented 5 percentage points of the net sales increase. The overall impact of sales mix was favorable primarily due to .
K-Cups
 
 
Overall volume, as measured in tonnage, was down 10 percent in the third quarter of 2012, compared to the third quarter of 2011, primarily driven by  shortening and oils,  coffee, and peanut butter. Shipments measured by units were down 8 percent. While the Company entered the Fall Bake and Holiday period with a solid mix of merchandising and marketing programs, consumer takeaway across the food industry was lower during the quarter than in the prior year. Additionally, the Companys volume decline was attributed to four primary reasons:
Crisco
Folgers
Jif
 
 
 
 
 
Margins
 
 
Amounts may not add due to rounding.
 
 
Gross profit decreased $8.7 million, or 2 percent, in the third quarter of 2012, compared to 2011, and decreased $12.4 million, excluding special project costs, primarily due to lower sales volume. During the third quarter of 2012, costs were higher for green coffee, edible oils, peanuts, and flour, compared to the third quarter of 2011. However, the net impact on gross profit resulting from the recognition of these higher costs and related pricing actions was mixed due to timing. The net impact of timing was favorable for peanut butter and more than offset the unfavorable impact for coffee. The net favorable impact of a $3.5 million change in unrealized mark-to-market adjustments on derivative contracts, primarily for coffee, in the third quarter of 2012, compared to 2011, also impacted gross profit. Gross margin contracted from 37.4 percent in the third quarter of 2011 to 32.6 percent in the third quarter of 2012, excluding special project costs.
 
The Company expects that it will continue to recognize higher green coffee costs through its fourth quarter, compared to the prior year, although to a lesser degree than in the third quarter. Peanut costs are expected to be significantly higher in the fourth quarter than in the third quarter of 2012 as the inventory of lower-cost peanuts is depleted.
 
Selling, distribution, and administrative (SD&A) expenses in the third quarter of 2012 increased 5 percent, compared to the third quarter of 2011, but decreased as a percentage of net sales from 16.3 percent to 15.3 percent. Marketing expenses in the third quarter of 2012 increased 4 percent compared to the third quarter of 2011. Over the same period, selling and general and administrative expenses increased 12 percent and 7 percent, respectively, while distribution expenses decreased 3 percent. The addition of the Rowland Coffee and Sara Lee businesses represented over 70 percent of the overall increase in SD&A expenses. Higher amortization expense was recognized in the third quarter of 2012, compared to 2011, primarily related to the intangible assets associated with the Companys recent acquisitions.
 
Operating income decreased $12.6 million, or 6 percent, in the third quarter of 2012, compared to 2011. Excluding special project costs in both periods, operating income decreased $8.1 million, or 3 percent, and declined from 18.4 percent of net sales in 2011 to 15.9 percent in 2012. Both of these operating income measures include a $17.2 million impairment charge in 2011.
 
 
Interest and Income Taxes
 
Interest expense increased $5.5 million in the third quarter of 2012, compared to 2011, representing the costs of higher debt outstanding, reflecting the Companys October 2011 public issuance, somewhat offset by the benefit of the Companys interest rate swap activities and higher capitalized interest associated with the Companys capital expenditures.
 
Income taxes decreased $3.4 million in the third quarter of 2012, reflecting an $18.5 million decrease in income before income taxes and the offsetting impact of an increase in the effective tax rate to 34.1 percent, compared to 32.6 percent in the third quarter of 2011. The increase in the effective tax rate in the third quarter of 2012 is primarily due to an increase in state income tax expense and a lower domestic manufacturing deduction, compared to the third quarter of 2011.
 
Segment Performance
 
 
 
Effective May 1, 2011, the Companys reportable segments have been modified to align segment financial results with the responsibilities of segment management, consistent with the executive appointments announced in March 2011. Also effective May 1, 2011, certain specialty brands which were previously included in the U.S. Retail Consumer Foods segment are included in the International, Foodservice, and Natural Foods segment (product realignments). Segment performance for 2011 has been reclassified for these product realignments and the organizational changes described above.
 
 
The U.S. Retail Consumer Foods reportable segment is a combination of the former U.S. Retail Consumer Market and U.S. Retail Oils and Baking Market reportable segments, adjusted for product realignments. The former Special Markets segment has been renamed International, Foodservice, and Natural Foods segment and also reflects product realignments. The Companys method of calculating segment profit remains consistent with 2011.
 
U.S. Retail Coffee
The U.S. Retail Coffee segment net sales increased 15 percent in the third quarter of 2012, compared to the third quarter of 2011, reflecting the net realization of price increases taken over the last 12 months. The acquisition of Rowland Coffee contributed approximately $28.5 million to segment net sales, representing 5 percentage points of the segment net sales increase. Segment volume decreased 11 percent for the third quarter of 2012, compared to the third quarter of 2011, excluding Rowland Coffee. Volume declined for the  brand in line with the overall segment in the third quarter of 2012, compared to 2011, and was primarily attributed to consumer response to higher price points on shelf and aggressive private label price points at key retailers.  packaged coffee volume was up 4 percent. Contributing to favorable sales mix in the third quarter of 2012, net sales of  and increased $38.2 million, compared to the third quarter of 2011, and represented 7 percentage points of segment net sales growth, while contributing only 1 percentage point growth to volume.
Folgers
Dunkin Donuts
Folgers Gourmet Selections
Millstone
K-Cups,
 
U.S. Retail Coffee segment profit decreased $19.7 million, or 12 percent, in the third quarter of 2012, compared to a record level in the third quarter of 2011, primarily due to lower sales volume. In addition, overall pricing, while higher in the third quarter of 2012, compared to 2011, did not fully offset higher green coffee costs recognized.
 
U.S. Retail Consumer Foods
The U.S. Retail Consumer Foods segment net sales increased 7 percent in the third quarter of 2012, compared to 2011, as the impact of price increases offset an 11 percent decline in volume.  peanut butter net sales increased 17 percent in the third quarter of 2012, compared to 2011, reflecting the recent 30 percent price increase and a 13 percent volume decline. The Company attributed an overall decline in peanut butter volume to a combination of consumer pantry loading in advance of the recent price increase, aggressive price points by certain competitors during the period, and overall higher price points.  fruit spreads net sales were flat and volume was down 8 percent during the same period.  brand net sales decreased 6 percent and volume was down 29 percent in the third quarter of 2012, compared to 2011, reflecting the impact of substantial price competition of private label offerings by certain retailers. For the same period, net sales and volume for the  brand increased 28 percent and 7 percent, respectively, with gains mostly in baking mixes. Canned milk net sales increased 8 percent and volume was flat during the third quarter of 2012, compared to 2011.
Jif
Smuckers
Crisco
Pillsbury
 
 
The U.S. Retail Consumer Foods segment profit increased $4.5 million, or 4 percent, in the third quarter of 2012, compared to the third quarter of 2011. Segment profit grew as the net impact of higher commodity costs was offset by pricing actions, benefiting primarily from timing related to peanut butter. The Company expects peanut costs to be significantly higher in the fourth quarter than in the third quarter of 2012 as the inventory of lower-cost peanuts is depleted. Segment selling, distribution, and marketing expenses were also up, but generally in line with the increase in net sales. Segment profit margin was 19.2 percent in the third quarter of 2012, compared to 19.7 percent in 2011.
 
International, Foodservice, and Natural Foods
Net sales in the International, Foodservice, and Natural Foods segment increased 14 percent in the third quarter of 2012, compared to 2011. Excluding the impact of acquisitions, divestiture, and foreign exchange, segment net sales increased 5 percent over the same period. Price increases and favorable sales mix more than offset a 9 percent decline in volume. Volume gains in  coffee were more than offset by declines in natural beverages,  pickles, and  flour.
Folgers
Bicks
Five Roses
 
Segment profit increased $9.1 million in the third quarter of 2012, compared to 2011 which included an impairment charge of $17.2 million related to intangible assets of the  business. Excluding the impact of the impairment charge in the third quarter of 2011, segment profit decreased $8.0 million, primarily due to lower sales volume. Also, costs were higher and not fully offset by price increases, notably in coffee and natural beverages. Segment profit margin was 14.3 percent in the third quarter of 2012, compared to 12.5 percent in the third quarter of 2011 which included a 7.2 percentage point impact of the impairment charge. As expected, the recently acquired Sara Lee business did not contribute to segment profit in the third quarter of 2012.
Europes Best
 
 
Other Financial Results and Measures
 
 
The significant cash generated in the third quarter of 2012 is consistent with the Companys expectation, whereby cash provided by operations in the second half of its fiscal year typically exceeds the amount in the first half of the year, upon completion of the Companys key Fall Bake and Holiday period. The Company typically expects a significant use of cash to fund working capital requirements during the first half of each fiscal year, primarily due to seasonal fruit and vegetable procurement, the buildup of inventories to support the Fall Bake and Holiday period, and the additional increase of coffee inventory in advance of the Atlantic hurricane season.
 
During the third quarter of 2012, the Company repurchased 555,700 common shares under its Board of Directors authorization for approximately $41.1 million. At January 31, 2012, the Company had 6.9 million common shares remaining for repurchase under its Board authorization, including 5 million additional common shares authorized by the Board during its January 2012 meeting.
 
Outlook
Due to the impact of the third quarter results and an expected continuation of volume softness in the fourth quarter, as compared to the prior year, the Company is lowering its net sales and earnings guidance for the year. Net sales for the full year are estimated at $5.5 billion, up approximately 15 percent over the prior year. Full year non-GAAP income per diluted share is expected to range from $4.60 to $4.65, excluding special project costs of $0.65 to $0.70 per diluted share, down from the Companys previous estimate of $4.90 to $5.00. While the Companys current estimates reflect the expected net sales contribution from the Sara Lee business, its contribution to earnings is not expected to be material.
 
Conference Call
The Company will conduct an earnings conference call and webcast today, Thursday, February 16, 2012, at 8:30 a.m. E.T. The webcast can be accessed from the Companys website at . For those unable to listen to the webcast, an audio replay will be available following the call and can be accessed by dialing 888-203-1112 or 719-457-0820, with a pass code of 3354217, and will be available until Thursday, February 23, 2012.
www.smuckers.com
 
 
Non-GAAP Measures
The Company uses non-GAAP measures including net sales adjusted for the noncomparable impact of acquisitions, divestiture, and foreign exchange rate; gross profit, operating income, income, and income per diluted share, excluding special project costs; earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization (EBITDA); and free cash flow as key measures for purposes of evaluating performance internally. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP). Rather, the presentation of these non-GAAP measures supplements other metrics used by management to internally evaluate its businesses, and facilitates the comparison of past and present operations. These non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies and may exclude certain nondiscretionary expenses and cash payments. A reconciliation of certain non-GAAP measures to the comparable GAAP items for the current and prior year quarter and year-to-date periods is included in the Unaudited Non-GAAP Measures table.
 
About The J. M. Smucker Company
For more than 110 years, The J.M. Smucker Company has been committed to offering consumers quality products that bring families together to share memorable meals and moments. Today, Smucker is a leading marketer and manufacturer of fruit spreads, retail packaged coffee, peanut butter, shortening and oils, ice cream toppings, sweetened condensed milk, and health and natural foods beverages in North America. Its family of brands includes , , , , , , , , , , ,  and  in the United States, along with , ,  and  in Canada. The Company remains rooted in the Basic Beliefs of Quality, People, Ethics, Growth and Independence established by its founder and namesake more than a century ago. For more information about the Company, visit .
Smucker's
Folgers
Dunkin Donuts
Jif
Crisco
Pillsbury
Eagle Brand
R.W. Knudsen Family
Hungry Jack
Caf Bustelo
Caf Pilon
TM
White Lily
Martha White
Robin Hood
Five Roses
Carnation
Bick's
www.smuckers.com
 
The J. M. Smucker Company is the owner of all trademarks, except the Barrelhead logo and the Doughboy character are trademarks of The Pillsbury Company, LLC, used under license; is a trademark of Socit des Produits Nestl S.A., used under license; and is a registered trademark of DD IP Holder, LLC, used under license.  and Elsie are trademarks used under license. andare registered trademarks of Sara Lee/DE B.V., used under license. 
Pillsbury
,
Carnation
Dunkin Donuts
Borden
Douwe Egberts
Pickwick
 
 
brand is licensed to The J. M. Smucker Company for packaged coffee products sold in retail channels such as grocery stores, mass merchandisers, club stores, and drug stores. This information does not pertain to  coffee or other products for sale in  restaurants.  and  are trademarks of Keurig, Incorporated.
Dunkin Donuts
Dunkin' Donuts
Dunkin' Donuts
K-Cup
K-Cups
 
The J. M. Smucker Company Forward-Looking Language
This press release contains forward-looking statements, such as projected operating results, earnings, and cash flows, that are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements. Readers should understand that the risks, uncertainties, factors, and assumptions listed and discussed in this press release, including the following important factors and assumptions, could affect the future results of the Company and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements:
 
 
 
 
Readers are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made, when evaluating the information presented in this press release. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect new events or circumstances.
 
The J. M. Smucker Company
Contacts:
(330) 682-3000
 
 
 
The J. M. Smucker Company
Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income
 
 
 
The J. M. Smucker Company
Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
 
 
 
The J. M. Smucker Company
Unaudited Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flow
 
 
 
The J. M. Smucker Company
Unaudited Non-GAAP Measures
 
 
 
The J. M. Smucker Company
Unaudited Non-GAAP Measures
 
 
The Company uses non-GAAP measures including net sales adjusted for the noncomparable impact of acquisitions, divestiture, and foreign exchange rate; gross profit, operating income, income, and income per diluted share, excluding special project costs; earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation, and amortization ("EBITDA"); and free cash flow as key measures for purposes of evaluating performance internally. These non-GAAP measures are not intended to replace the presentation of financial results in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Rather, the presentation of these non-GAAP measures supplement other metrics used by management to internally evaluate its businesses, and facilitates the comparison of past and present operations. These non-GAAP measures may not be comparable to similar measures used by other companies and may exclude certain nondiscretionary expenses and cash payments.
 
 
The J. M. Smucker Company
Unaudited Reportable Segments
 
 
 


