FILE:SJM/SJM-8K-20120326081515.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
UNITED STATES
S
ECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
  
FORM 8-K
 
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
 
 
Date of report (Date of earliest event reported):
March 26, 2012
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
The J. M. Smucker Company (the Company) today announced that it has acquired a non-controlling minority interest in Guilin Seamild Biologic Technology Development Co., Ltd., a privately owned manufacturer and marketer of oats products headquartered in Guilin in the Guangxi province of China, for approximately $35 million. Attached as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated by reference into this Item 7.01 is a copy of the press release issued by the Company, dated March 26, 2012.
 
The information in this Item 7.01, including Exhibit 99.1 attached hereto, is being furnished and shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that Section, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Exchange Act or the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURE
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
Date: March 26, 2012
 
 
 
EXHIBIT INDEX
 
 
 
 

 
 
EXHIBIT 99.1
 
For Immediate Release
 
The J. M. Smucker Company Acquires Minority Interest in China-Based Company
 
ORRVILLE, Ohio, March 26, 2012 --The J. M. Smucker Company (NYSE: SJM) today announced that it has acquired a non-controlling minority interest in Guilin Seamild Biologic Technology Development Co., Ltd. (Seamild), a privately owned manufacturer and marketer of oats products headquartered in Guilin in the Guangxi province of China, for approximately $35 million.
 
Seamilds product portfolio, primarily consisting of oatmeal sold under the leading  brand, is distributed in retail channels throughout China. Seamild operates two manufacturing facilities, both located in southern China. A third facility, currently under construction in northern China, is expected to begin production in late summer 2012. The transaction is not expected to have a material impact on Smuckers earnings in fiscal 2012 or on a full year basis. Smucker will account for this investment under the equity method of accounting.
Seamild
"Consistent with our goal of maintaining a global perspective, we are excited to enter the growing Chinese market through this partnership with Seamild, said Richard Smucker, Chief Executive Officer. Seamild is a family-run business with a strong culture, similar to Smucker in many respects, and is an established leader in the rapidly growing oats category in China. The solid relationship our team has built with the Xie family has provided both parties with the confidence and enthusiasm to enter into this joint venture. This transaction represents an exciting first step as we look to develop a meaningful presence in China over time.
 
Through this transaction with Seamild, we are pleased to have the opportunity to align ourselves with a well-respected company and brand in China, added Steve Oakland, President, International, Foodservice and Natural Foods. Seamilds portfolio of quality, trusted products aligns with Smuckers strategy of owning and marketing leading food brands. Seamilds strong focus on brand building and meeting the evolving needs of consumers complements our approach to growing brands. We look forward to the opportunity to leverage our respective strengths through this relationship.
 
  
About The J. M. Smucker Company
For more than 110 years, The J. M. Smucker Company has been committed to offering consumers quality products that bring families together to share memorable meals and moments. Today, Smucker is a leading marketer and manufacturer of fruit spreads, retail packaged coffee, peanut butter, shortening and oils, ice cream toppings, sweetened condensed milk, and health and natural foods beverages in North America. Its family of brands includes , , , , , , , , , , ,  and  in the United States, along with , ,  and  in Canada. The Company remains rooted in the Basic Beliefs of Quality, People, Ethics, Growth and Independence established by its founder and namesake more than a century ago. For more information about the Company, visit www.smuckers.com.
Smucker's
Folgers
Dunkin Donuts
Jif
Crisco
Pillsbury
Eagle Brand
R.W. Knudsen Family
Hungry Jack
Caf Bustelo
Caf Pilon
TM
White Lily
Martha White
Robin Hood
Five Roses
Carnation
Bick's
 
The J. M. Smucker Company is the owner of all trademarks, except for the following which are used under license:  the Barrelhead logo and the Doughboy character are trademarks of The Pillsbury Company, LLC;  is a trademark of Socit des Produits Nestl S.A.;  is a registered trademark of DD IP Holder, LLC; and  and  are registered trademarks of Sara Lee/DE B.V.  and Elsie are trademarks used under license.
Pillsbury
,
Carnation
Dunkin' Donuts
Douwe Egberts
Pickwick
Borden
 
The J. M. Smucker Company Forward-Looking Language
This press release contains forward-looking statements, such as projected operating results, earnings, and cash flows, that are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to differ materially from any future results, performance, or achievements expressed or implied by those forward-looking statements. Readers should understand that the risks, uncertainties, factors, and assumptions listed and discussed in this press release, including the following important factors and assumptions, could affect the future results of the Company and could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements:
 
 
  
 
Readers are cautioned not to unduly rely on such forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date made, when evaluating the information presented in this press release. The Company does not undertake any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements to reflect new events or circumstances.
 
 
Contacts:
The J. M. Smucker Company
(330) 682-3000
 
Investors:
Sonal Robinson
Vice President, Investor Relations
 
Media:
Maribeth Badertscher
Vice President, Corporate Communications
 
 
 


