FILE:YUM/YUM-8K-20021015114452.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Item 5. 
OTHER EVENTS
On October 9, 2002 YUM! Brands, Inc. issued a press release with respect to earnings for the third quarter ended September 7, 2002. A copy of such press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c)     Exhibits 99      Press release dated October 9, 2002 from YUM! Brands, Inc.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
- Yum! Brands, Inc. (NYSE: YUM) today reported results for the third quarter ended September 7, 2002.
Louisville, Ky. (October 9, 2002)
Highlights of the third quarter:
David C. Novak, Chairman and CEO, said,
"Yum! Brands had another outstanding quarter with better than expected results driven by exceptional performance from our international and Taco Bell businesses.
"Our international business posted its 17th straight quarter of system same-store sales growth, and recorded a 16% increase in revenues and a 22% increase in ongoing operating profit. Along with our franchise partners, we are on track to open approximately 1,000 new restaurants outside the U.S., generating +5% to +6% net growth in system restaurants this year. In China, where KFC is the leading consumer brand, we recently opened our 700th KFC and the country's first drive-through restaurant.
"Our U.S. portfolio delivered 3% blended same-store sales growth from company restaurants, which was at the high end of our forecast range. This blended portfolio performance was driven by 10% growth at Taco Bell, while KFC was flat and Pizza Hut was down 1% versus a year ago. For the full year, we expect U.S. portfolio blended same-store sales to increase at least 2%.
"We continue to make significant progress executing our multibranding strategy  by uniquely offering our customers the choice of two great brands in one restaurant. We now expect to add 375 multibrand restaurants systemwide this year, exceeding our target of 325. Multibranding KFC and Taco Bell restaurants with our recently acquired brands  Long John Silver's and A&W  continues to drive significant boosts to sales, cash flow, and improved unit economics. The addition of these two brands more than triples our long-term opportunities for multibranded locations in the U.S. to more than 13,000 restaurants. Importantly, our pipeline for 2003 looks strong, and we expect our multibrand development to accelerate each year.
"Given our strong results year to date, we are raising our full-year 2002 ongoing operating EPS guidance to a range of $1.89 to $1.91 from our previous guidance of at least $1.88. We expect to deliver ongoing operating EPS, in a range of $0.54 to $0.56 per share for the fourth quarter of 2002."
Following is an update on Yum! Brands' international and U.S. business segments as well as key drivers, which include global expansion, portfolio of leading U.S. brands, multibranding expansion, franchise fees and cash generation and returns:
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS PERFORMANCE
In the third quarter and year to date for Yum! Brands' international business, net new-restaurant development was the primary driver of revenue and ongoing operating profit growth. Improvement in restaurant margin was also a key factor in ongoing operating profit growth both for third quarter and year to date.
For the full year 2002, the company has increased its forecast for U.S. dollar growth in international revenues to a mid-teens rate from a low- to mid-teens rate previously. International ongoing operating profit is expected to grow at least 21%. Based on current foreign currency rates, the company expects a neutral to slightly negative impact from foreign currency conversion on ongoing operating profit for the full year. The Australian dollar, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Chinese renminbi, Japanese yen, Korean won, and Mexican peso are all important currencies in the company's international business.
UNITED STATES PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE
In the third quarter for Yum! Brands' U.S. portfolio, blended same-store sales at company restaurants increased 3% and consisted of a 10% increase at Taco Bell, even performance with last year at KFC, and a 1% decrease at Pizza Hut. Estimated U.S. portfolio blended same-store sales growth for franchise restaurants was +4% to +5% for the third quarter. An increase in systemwide blended same-store sales drove 4 percentage points of revenue growth. The acquisition of Long John Silver's and A&W contributed 13 percentage points to U.S. revenue growth. The acquisition of these two brands occurred during the second quarter of 2002.
Year to date, blended portfolio same-store sales at company restaurants increased 3% and consisted of a 9% increase at Taco Bell, a 3% increase at KFC, and a 1% decrease at Pizza Hut. Estimated U.S. portfolio blended same-store sales growth for franchise restaurants was +4% to +5% year to date. Increases in systemwide blended same-store sales added 4 percentage points of revenue growth year to date. The acquisition of the Long John Silver's and A&W brands contributed 6 percentage points to U.S. revenue growth year to date.
For the full year 2002, the company expects U.S. blended company same-store sales growth of 2%, U.S. revenues to increase 10% to 11% and U.S. ongoing operating profit to increase at a mid-teens rate. The company expects the acquisition of Long John Silver's and A&W to contribute 7 to 8 percentage points of revenue growth on a full-year basis. Additionally, for the U.S. business, the company expects the adoption of SFAS 142 to contribute 2 to 3 percentage points and the acquisition of Long John Silver's and A&W to contribute 1 to 2 percentage points of ongoing operating profit growth on a full-year basis.
WORLDWIDE NEW-RESTAURANT DEVELOPMENT
Key factors to worldwide restaurant growth were restaurant additions in the
company's four high-growth international markets  China, Mexico, Korea, and the U.K.  and development by our international franchisees. Versus the third-quarter 2001, net restaurant growth was 43% in China, 11% in Korea, 11% in Mexico, and 9% in the U.K.
One point not reflected, which primarily affects U.S. net restaurant-growth statistics, is the impact of multibranding on our U.S. restaurant system. Multibrand conversions, while increasing the sales and points of distribution of the added brand, result in no additional unit counts. Though no additional unit counts are realized, these conversions, on average, drive significant increases in average unit volumes and result in upgraded, new-image restaurants for the U.S. business. Similarly, a newly opened multibrand unit, while increasing sales and points of distribution of two brands, results in just one additional unit count.
For the full-year 2002, the company continues to expect on-target growth in international restaurants of 5% to 6%. No net change in U.S. restaurant counts is expected. This forecast excludes licensed locations.
WORLDWIDE MULTIBRANDING EXPANSION
In the third quarter, net multibrand additions were 91 in the U.S. and seven for international. In the U.S., company and franchise net additions were 44 and 47 respectively. About 50% of the U.S. multibrand additions represented conversions of existing single-brand restaurants, and 50% represented new-restaurant openings.
Our multibranding program with KFC and Taco Bell partnering with Long John Silver's or A&W continues to grow with 26 additions completed during the quarter. Results continue to show strong average unit-volume increases. Additionally, we opened 16 Long John Silver's/A&W multibrand restaurants during the third quarter.
In 2002, Yum! Brands expects to add 375 company and franchise multibranded restaurants through new-restaurant openings and conversions of existing restaurants versus the prior target of 325. About 60% of these additions are expected to be conversions of single-brand restaurants to multibrands and 40% are expected to be new multibrand restaurants.
FRANCHISE FEES
In the third quarter and year to date, worldwide franchise same-store sales growth, net new-restaurant development and the acquisition of Long John Silver's and A&W brands drove franchise-fee growth. Foreign currency translation negatively impacted year-to-date growth versus 2001 by one percentage point. The acquisition of Long John Silver's and A&W contributed 4 percentage points of franchise-fee growth in the third quarter and 2 percentage points on a year-to-date basis.
For the full year 2002, the company expects franchise fees to grow to more than $860 million.
CASH GENERATED
For 2002, the company expects cash flow from ongoing operations of nearly $950 million, which more than funds capital-expenditure needs of an estimated $800 million. Additionally, the company expects total cash generated to exceed $1.2 billion, including over $125 million of proceeds from employee stock-option exercises, over $100 million, principally from working-capital changes and AmeriServe proceeds, and $60 million from after-tax refranchising proceeds.
FOURTH-QUARTER 2002 OUTLOOK
The company expects to earn $0.54 to $0.56 in ongoing operating EPS.
Projected factors contributing to the company's EPS expectations are . . .
YEAR-2002 OUTLOOK
Yum! Brands now expects to earn ongoing operating EPS of $1.89 to $1.91 for the full year. The company's previous guidance was for ongoing operating EPS of at least $1.88.
SEPTEMBER (PERIOD 10) SALES
Estimated U.S. portfolio blended same-store sales at company restaurants declined 1% during the four-week period ended October 5, 2002 (Period 10). For the comparable four-week period, U.S. same-store sales increased 3% at both Taco Bell and Pizza Hut and decreased 10% at KFC.
For Period 10, international system sales increased 9% prior to foreign currency conversion or 10% after conversion to U.S. dollars. Year-to-date international system sales increased 10% prior to foreign currency conversion or 8% after conversion to U.S. dollars.
Same-store sales results for Period 11, 2002 (October), will be released Thursday, November 7, 2002, prior to the New York Stock Exchange's opening.
This announcement contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements include those identified by such words as and other similar terminology. These "forward-looking" statements reflect management's current expectations regarding future events and operating and financial performance and are based on currently available data. However, actual results are subject to future events and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those projected in this announcement. Factors that can cause actual results to differ materially include changes in global and local business, economic and political conditions in the countries and territories where Yum! Brands operates; changes in currency exchange and interest rates; changes in commodity, labor and other operating costs; changes in competition in the food industry, consumer preferences, spending patterns and demographic trends; the effectiveness of our operating initiatives and advertising and promotional efforts; new-product and concept development by Yum! Brands and other food-industry competitors; the success of our refranchising strategy; the ongoing business viability of our franchise and license operators; our ability to secure alternative distribution to our restaurants at competitive rates and to ensure adequate supplies of restaurant products and equipment in our stores; our actuarially determined casualty loss estimates; changes in legislation and governmental regulation; and changes in accounting policies and practices. Further information about factors that could affect Yum! Brands' financial and other results are included in the company's Forms 10-Q and 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
may, will, expect, anticipate, believe, plan
Yum! Brands, Inc. will hold a conference call to review the company's financial performance and strategies at 9:00 a.m. EDT Thursday, October 10, 2002.
For U.S. callers, the number is 877/815-2029. For international callers, the number is 706/645-9271.
The call will be available for playback beginning Thursday, October 10, at noon EDT through Friday, October 25, at midnight EDT. To access the playback, dial 800/642-1687 in the U.S.A. and 706/645-9291 internationally. The playback pass code is 5657808.
The call and the playback can be accessed via the Internet by visiting Yum! Brands' Web site: www.yum.com and selecting "3rd Quarter Earnings Web Cast." (Windows Media Player is required, which can be downloaded at no charge from the following link: http://www.microsoft.com/windows/windowsmedia/players.asp. The process could take several minutes.)
Analysts are invited to contact
Tim Jerzyk, Vice President Investor Relations, at 502/874-2543
Members of the media are invited to contact
Amy Sherwood, Vice President Public Relations, at 502/874-8200
Individual shareholders are invited to contact
Donna Gunnoe, Shareholder Coordinator, at 502/874-8400
See accompanying notes.
See accompanying notes.
See accompanying notes.
See accompanying notes.


