FILE:YUM/YUM-8K-20030715184155.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
YUM! BRANDS, INC. REPORTS SECOND-QUARTER EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS) OF $0.48 PRIOR TO SPECIAL ITEMS. INCLUDING SPECIAL ITEMS OF $0.08, REPORTED EPS IS $0.40.
- Yum! Brands, Inc. (NYSE: YUM), today reported results for the second quarter ended June 14, 2003.
Louisville, Ky. (July 15, 2003)
Key highlights for the quarter were
As previously reported on June 4, 2003, the company took a pretax charge of $35 million, including prejudgment interest charges related to the jury verdict in This charge is included in special items.
Wrench v. Taco Bell Corp.
Note: System sales include the results of all restaurants regardless of ownership, including company-owned, franchise, joint-venture and license restaurants.
David C. Novak, Chairman and CEO, said:
"The strength of our worldwide restaurant portfolio enabled us to achieve our quarterly earnings target. Profits increased at both our U.S. and international businesses. We are especially pleased with our international results of 5% system sales growth in local-currency terms despite the adverse effects in the quarter from SARS in Asia and turmoil in the Middle East. The U.S business turned positive this quarter with same store sales growth of 1% at company restaurants, and we expect a stronger second half at each of the brands. As a result, for the full year 2003, we continue to expect to earn at least $2.00 per share prior to special items, which are currently projected to total $0.08 per share.
"This quarter, the company took a pretax charge of $35 million related to a legal judgement against Taco Bell. We plan to vigorously appeal the verdict, and if unsuccessful on appeal, intend to seek reimbursement from appropriate parties. This charge is included in special items.
"Importantly, we remain focused on executing our three key strategies  international restaurant growth, multibrand expansion, and improving restaurant operations  that will drive our continued growth and make us anything but an ordinary restaurant company. We are making solid progress against these strategies:
International new-restaurant growth - With our international franchise partners, we opened 192 new traditional international restaurants in the second quarter. We are on target to open more than 1,000 new traditional international restaurants systemwide again this year.
Multibrand expansion - In the second quarter, the U.S. system added 54 multibrand restaurants. With our recent acquisition of Pasta Bravo, we now have opportunities to multibrand all our U.S. brands, including Pizza Hut. We recently opened our first A&W multibrand restaurant in Europe, a KFC/A&W restaurant in Hanover, Germany.
Improve restaurant operations and differentiate our core-brand portfolio - Annualized team-member turnover for U.S. operations, a key measure, continues to be favorable at 108%, an all-time low second-quarter result."
Following is an update on Yum! Brands' international and U.S. businesses as well as key business-growth drivers, which include international expansion, multibrand expansion in the U.S., portfolio of category-leading brands, franchise-fee growth and substantial cash generation with high returns.
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS
In the second quarter for Yum! Brands' international business, continued expansion of our key international brands  KFC and Pizza Hut  was the primary driver of system sales and operating-profit growth. Company restaurant margins were down in the second quarter primarily due to sales deleverage. Some international markets were affected by anti-American sentiment, timing of the Chinese New Year, SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome) and macro-economic conditions. These markets included Korea, Taiwan, China, Thailand and Mexico. The favorable impact of foreign currency conversion added $5 million to operating profit for the second quarter.
UNITED STATES BUSINESS
The acquisition of Long John Silver's and A&W contributed significantly to growth in U.S. system sales for the second quarter. The acquisition of these two brands occurred during the second quarter of 2002. Excluding this impact, system sales increased 2% for the second quarter.
In the second quarter, U.S. systemwide blended same-store sales increased approximately 2%. Estimated U.S. blended same-store sales for franchise restaurants increased approximately 2%, slightly better than company results, which increased 1%.
In the second quarter, U.S. restaurant margin was negatively impacted by sales deleverage at KFC and Pizza Hut and wage inflation. Additionally, higher occupancy and other operating expenses were a factor. The acquisition of Long John Silver's and A&W negatively impacted margin by 0.1 percentage points.
WORLDWIDE NEW-RESTAURANT DEVELOPMENT
Worldwide new-restaurant openings for the second quarter were driven by growth in new international restaurants from our global brands: KFC and Pizza Hut. Primary growth drivers were the four key international markets  China, the U.K., Mexico and Korea  with 65 new openings this quarter. Franchise and joint-venture partners opened nearly 70% of systemwide new international restaurants year to date. Versus the end of the second quarter 2002, net traditional restaurant count increased 35% in China, 13% in Mexico, 8% in the U.K., and 6% in Korea.
One point not reflected, which primarily affects U.S. net restaurant-growth statistics, is the impact of multibranding on our U.S. restaurant system. Multibrand conversions, while increasing the sales and points of distribution for the second brand added to a restaurant, result in no additional unit counts. Though no additional unit counts are realized, these conversions drive increases in same-store sales and result in upgraded, new-image restaurants for the U.S. business. Similarly, a new multibrand restaurant, while increasing sales and points of distribution for two brands, results in just one additional unit count.
This discussion excludes changes in licensed-unit locations, which are expected to have no material impact on the company's overall profit performance in 2003. License locations are typically nontraditional sites, such as airports, that normally have substantially lower average unit volumes than traditional restaurant locations.
MULTIBRANDING EXPANSION
In the second quarter, 54 multibrand restaurants were added in the U.S., bringing the total to 126 U.S. multibrand additions year to date. In the U.S., company and franchise additions were 21 and 33 respectively. Approximately 50% of the U.S. multibrand additions are expected to be conversions of existing single-brand restaurants, and 50% are expected to be new-restaurant openings for full year 2003.
FRANCHISE GROWTH AND FEES
For the second quarter, the acquisition of Long John Silver's and A&W contributed 2 percentage points, and favorable foreign currency conversion added 3 percentage points of franchise-fee growth. Excluding these factors, franchise fees increased 4%, primarily driven by net new-restaurant development. Positive U.S. same-store sales growth and increased international rates were also factors.
CASH-FLOW GENERATION
For second quarter and year to date, the company more than funded capital spending with net cash provided by operating activities. Additional cash was generated from employee stock-option proceeds, proceeds from refranchising restaurants and sales of property, plant and equipment. As a result, the company was able to reduce debt and repurchase stock as indicated in the preceding table.
THIRD-QUARTER 2003 OUTLOOK
The company is comfortable with the current consensus estimate of $0.52 in reported EPS. At this time, the company assumes no special items in the third quarter. This is an increase of $0.06, or 13%, compared to last year's performance, prior to a gain of $0.01 from special items in 2002.
Projected factors contributing to the company's EPS expectations are
ANNUAL OUTLOOK
The company expects earnings per share to grow at least 10% each year with the continued execution of its three key strategies: (1) international new-restaurant growth; (2) multibrand restaurant expansion in the U.S.; and (3) improving restaurant operations and differentiating our core-brand portfolio, resulting in top consumer-rated measures. For 2003, Yum! Brands expects to earn at least $2.00 on a reported EPS basis before special items, or $1.92 reported EPS. This is at least 10% growth versus last year's $1.82 prior to special items. Net special items are currently expected to be $0.08 for the full year 2003.
For 2003, the company expects worldwide revenue growth of 7% to 8%. This includes 2 percentage points from the favorable impact of the Long John Silver's and A&W acquisition, at least 2% worldwide traditional system restaurant growth and 1% growth in U.S. company blended same-store sales.
PERIOD 7 SALES
Period 7 estimated international system sales increased 3% prior to foreign currency conversion or 10% after conversion to U.S. dollars. Estimated U.S. blended same-store sales at company restaurants were even during the four-week period ended July 12, 2003 (Period 7).
INTERNATIONAL SYSTEM SALES GROWTH (ESTIMATED)
As previously disclosed, Period 7 includes China sales results for the month of May that were affected by the impact of SARS.
U.S. COMPANY SAME-STORE SALES GROWTH (ESTIMATED)
NOTES
Sales results for Period 8 (the four-week period ending August 9, 2003), are scheduled to be released August 14, 2003, before market hours.
include only company restaurants that have been open one year or more. U.S. blended same-store sales include KFC, Pizza Hut, and Taco Bell company-owned restaurants only. U.S. same-store sales for Long John Silver's and A&W are not included. U.S. franchise and systemwide same-store sales results are reported quarterly within the company's earnings release and include only KFC, Pizza Hut and Taco Bell Restaurants.
U.S. same-store sales
include the total of sales from approximately 12,000 company, franchise, license, and joint-venture restaurants in over 100 countries and territories outside the United States. The international business period close is one period prior to the company's period-end date to facilitate consolidated reporting. Please refer to the reporting calendar posted on Yum! Brands' Web site at the following URL:
International system sales
http://investors.yum.com/ireye/ir_site.zhtml?ticker=YUM&script=1000.
THIRD-QUARTER EARNINGS RELEASE
Please note, third-quarter earnings have been rescheduled to October 7, 2003, after market hours. The conference call will follow October 8, 2003, at 9:15 a.m. Eastern Time. Both events are one day earlier than previously announced.
This announcement contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements include those identified by such words as and other similar terminology. These "forward-looking" statements reflect management's current expectations regarding future events and operating and financial performance and are based on currently available data. However, actual results are subject to future events and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those projected in this announcement. Factors that can cause actual results to differ materially include changes in global and local business, economic and political conditions in the countries and territories where Yum! Brands operates; changes in currency exchange and interest rates; changes in commodity, labor and other operating costs; changes in competition in the food industry, consumer preferences, spending patterns and demographic trends; the effectiveness of our operating initiatives and advertising and promotional efforts; new-product and concept development by Yum! Brands and other food-industry competitors; the success of our refranchising strategy; the ongoing business viability of our franchise and license operators; our ability to secure alternative distribution to our restaurants at competitive rates and to ensure adequate supplies of restaurant products and equipment in our stores; the impact that Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) may have on our business and the economy of the countries in which we operate; our actuarially determined casualty loss estimates; changes in legislation and governmental regulation; and changes in accounting policies and practices. Further information about factors that could affect Yum! Brands' financial and other results are included in the company's Forms 10-Q and 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
may, will, expect, project, anticipate, believe, plan
Yum! Brands, Inc., based in Louisville, Kentucky, is the world's largest restaurant company in terms of system units with approximately 33,000 restaurants in more than 100 countries and territories. Four of the company's restaurant brands KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and Long John Silver's are the global leaders of the chicken, pizza, Mexican-style food and quick-service seafood categories respectively. Since 1919, A&W All-American Food has been serving a signature frosty mug root beer float and all-American pure-beef hamburgers and hot dogs, making it the longest running quick-service franchise chain in America. Yum! Brands is the worldwide leader in multibranding, which offers consumers more choice and convenience at one restaurant location from a combination of KFC, Taco Bell, Pizza Hut, A&W or Long John Silver's brands. The company and its franchisees today operate over 2,000 multibrand restaurants, generating over $2 billion in annual system sales. Outside the United States in 2002, the Yum! Brands' system opened about three new restaurants each day of the year, making it one of the fastest growing retailers in the world. In 2002, the company changed its name to Yum! Brands, Inc., from Tricon Global Restaurants, Inc., to reflect its expanding portfolio of brands and its ticker symbol on the New York Stock Exchange.
Yum! Brands, Inc. will hold a conference call to review the company's financial performance and strategies at 9:15 a.m. EDT Wednesday, July 16, 2003.
For U.S. callers, the number is 877/815-2029. For international callers, the number is 706/645-9271.
The call will be available for playback beginning Wednesday, July 16, at 12:15 p.m. EDT through Friday, August 1, at midnight EDT. To access the playback, dial 800/642-1687 in the U.S.A. and 706/645-9291 internationally. The playback pass code is 738575.
The call and the playback can be accessed via the Internet by visiting Yum! Brands' Web site: www.yum.com and selecting "2nd Quarter Earnings Web Cast." (Windows Media Player is required, which can be downloaded at no charge from the following link: http://www.microsoft.com/windows/windowsmedia/players.asp. The process could take several minutes.)
Analysts are invited to contact
     Tim Jerzyk, Vice President Investor Relations, at 502/874-2543
Individual shareholders are invited to contact
     Lynn Schweinfurth, Director Investor Relations, at 502/874-8918
Members of the media are invited to contact
     Amy Sherwood, Vice President Public Relations, at 502/874-8200
See accompanying notes.
Wrench litigation, AmeriServe and other charges (credits) and Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of tax have been summed and referred to as "Special Items" throughout this press release. See accompanying reconciliation of non-GAAP measurements to GAAP results.
See accompanying notes and reconciliations of non-GAAP measurements to GAAP results.
See accompanying notes.
See accompanying notes.
See accompanying notes.
See accompanying notes.
In addition to the results provided in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") throughout this document, the Company has provided non-GAAP measurements which present operating results on a basis before special items. Special items include the GAAP income statement captions of Wrench litigation, AmeriServe and other charges (credits) and the Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of tax. These amounts are described in (c), (d) and (e) in the accompanying notes.
The Company uses earnings before special items as a key performance measure of results of operations for purposes of evaluating performance internally. This non-GAAP measurement is not intended to replace the presentation of our financial results in accordance with GAAP. Rather, the Company believes that the presentation of earnings before special items provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations, excluding items that the Company does not believe are indicative of our ongoing operations.
The Company has also provided a non-GAAP measurement - total cash generated - which is intended to measure cash flow inclusive of certain items not contained in the GAAP measurement of net cash provided by operating activities. This non-GAAP measurement is not intended to replace presentations of cash flows in accordance with GAAP. Rather, we use total cash generated to measure Company cash flow internally, and the presentation of total cash generated provides additional information to investors as to cash available to the Company to fund capital spending, repurchases of shares of common stock and debt repayments.
Reconciliation of Net Cash Provided by Operating Activities to Total Cash Generated


