FILE:YUM/YUM-8K-20030211173922.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
Item 5. 
OTHER EVENTS
On February 10, 2003 YUM! Brands, Inc. issued a press release with respect to earnings for the full year 2002. A copy of such press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7. 
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS
(c)     Exhibits 99      Press release dated February 10, 2003 from YUM! Brands, Inc.
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
YUM! BRANDS, INC. REPORTS ONGOING OPERATING EARNINGS PER SHARE OF $1.91 FOR FULL YEAR 2002, AN INCREASE OF 19%; FOURTH-QUARTER ONGOING OPERATING EPS OF $0.56, AN INCREASE OF 5% VERSUS 2001
 Yum! Brands, Inc. (NYSE: YUM) today reported results for the fourth quarter ended December 28, 2002.
Louisville, Ky. (February 10, 2003)
Key points relative to fourth-quarter performance:
As stated in prior communications, beginning with the first quarter 2003, the company will provide reported EPS guidance but will no longer report or provide guidance for ongoing operating EPS.
Reminder:
David C. Novak, Chairman and CEO, said,
"The best year any business can have is when you beat your financial plan and set the table for future growth. 2002 was that kind of year for Yum! Brands. Our long-term commitment is to grow our annual EPS by at least 10%. In 2002, we grew ongoing operating EPS by 19%. This was driven by exceptionally strong growth in revenues of 12% while maintaining our category-leading return on invested capital of 18%.
"
Even more important, we continued to strengthen our powerful international growth engine, successfully acquired and integrated the Long John Silver's and A&W All-American Food brands to enable our multibranding strategy, and launched our customer mania operations program around the world.
"
These are the three building blocks that give us what we believe to be an unprecedented growth opportunity in our industry and make us anything but your ordinary restaurant company. Based on the results we achieved and the progress we're making, we believe that we will deliver at least 10% earnings growth in 2003 and beyond."
Following is an update on Yum! Brands' international and U.S. business segments as well as key drivers, which include global expansion, portfolio of leading U.S. brands, multibranding expansion, franchise fees and cash generation and returns:
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS PERFORMANCE
In the fourth quarter and full year for Yum! Brands' international business, continued expansion of our key international brands - KFC and Pizza Hut - was the primary driver of system sales, revenue and ongoing operating profit growth. Improvement in company restaurant margin was also a key factor in ongoing operating profit growth both for fourth quarter and full year 2002.
Yum! Brands set a record with 1,051 systemwide international traditional restaurant openings in 2002. These included 646 KFCs and 382 Pizza Huts.
In 2003, the company expects international system sales to grow 7% prior to foreign currency conversion. Net growth of +5% to +6% in traditional restaurants primarily from the KFC and Pizza Hut brands is expected to be a key factor. The company expects international operating profit to grow at a mid-teens rate for the full year.
UNITED STATES PORTFOLIO PERFORMANCE
The acquisition of Long John Silver's and A&W contributed significantly to growth in U.S. system sales and revenue for both the fourth quarter and full year. The acquisition of these two brands occurred during the second quarter of 2002. Excluding this impact, system sales growth was +2% for the fourth quarter and +4% for the full year. Revenues, excluding the acquisition impact, increased 1% for the fourth quarter and 3% for the full year.
In the fourth quarter, U.S. systemwide blended same-store sales increased approximately 1%. Estimated U.S. blended same-store sales growth for franchise restaurants was +1% to +2% for the fourth quarter, slightly stronger than company results, which declined 1%.
For the full year 2002, U.S. systemwide blended same-store sales increased 4%. Estimated U.S. blended same-store sales growth for franchise restaurants was +4% to +5% for the full year, while company restaurant growth was +2%. For the full year 2002, Taco Bell company same-store sales increased 7%, while KFC and Pizza Hut company same-store sales were even with last year.
For the full year 2002, restaurant margin of 16% was a record for the U.S. business. In the fourth quarter, U.S. restaurant margin was negatively impacted by higher labor costs. The acquisition of Long John Silver's and A&W negatively impacted margins by 0.1 percentage points for the fourth quarter and 0.2 percentage points for the full year.
For the full year 2003, the company expects U.S. operating profit to increase at a rate of 6% to 9%. The company expects U.S. blended company same-store sales growth of approximately 2% for the full year.
WORLDWIDE NEW-RESTAURANT DEVELOPMENT
For the year, worldwide restaurant unit growth was driven by record growth in new international restaurants from our global brands  KFC and Pizza Hut. Key growth drivers were the company's four high-growth, high-investment international markets  China, Mexico, the U.K., and Korea  and development by our international franchisees. Versus the fourth-quarter 2001, net traditional restaurant growth was 41% in China, 11% in Mexico, 9% in the U.K., and 8% in Korea.
One point not reflected, which primarily affects U.S. net restaurant-growth statistics, is the impact of multibranding on our U.S. restaurant system. Multibrand conversions, while increasing the sales and points of distribution of the added brand, result in no additional unit counts. Though no additional unit counts are realized, these conversions, on average, drive significant increases in same-store sales and result in upgraded, new-image restaurants for the U.S. business. Similarly, a newly opened multibrand unit, while increasing sales and points of distribution of two brands, results in just one additional unit count.
For the full year 2003, the company continues to expect net growth in international restaurants of
5% to 6%. This will be a major driver of the company's expected overall profit growth for 2003. No net change in U.S. restaurant counts is expected. This forecast excludes changes in licensed unit locations, which are expected to have no material impact on the company's overall profit performance in 2003. License locations are typically non-traditional sites, such as airports, that normally have lower average unit volumes than traditional restaurant locations.
WORLDWIDE MULTIBRANDING EXPANSION
In the fourth quarter, net multibrand additions were 130 in the U.S. and 12 for international. In the U.S., company and franchise net additions were 89 and 41 respectively. About 50% of the U.S. multibrand additions represented conversions of existing single-brand restaurants, and 50% represented new-restaurant openings.
Our multibranding program with KFC and Taco Bell partnering with Long John Silver's or A&W continues to grow with 47 additions completed during the quarter. Results continue to show strong average unit-volume increases. Additionally, we opened 17 Long John Silver's/A&W multibrand restaurants during the fourth quarter.
For the full year 2002, franchise multibrand additions were over 40% of the U.S. total. Approximately 50% of the U.S. multibrand additions represented conversions of existing single-brand restaurants, and 50% represented new-store openings. In addition to the 347 Yum! multibrand openings during the year, another 20 Long John Silver's/A&W Restaurants were opened during 2002 prior to the acquisition of Yorkshire Global Restaurants, bringing the total number of multibrand openings and conversions in the Yum! family to 367 in 2002.
In 2003, Yum! Brands expects to add at least 400 company and franchise multibrand restaurants. About 50% of these additions are expected to be conversions of single-brand restaurants to multibrands, and 50% are expected to be new multibrand restaurants.
FRANCHISE FEES
In the fourth quarter and for the full year, the acquisition of Long John Silver's and A&W, net new-restaurant development, and worldwide franchise same-store sales growth were key factors in franchise-fee growth. The acquisition of Long John Silver's and A&W contributed 2 percentage points of franchise-fee growth both in the fourth quarter and for the full year.
In 2003, the company expects franchise fees to grow to at least $910 million.
CASH GENERATED & RETURN ON INVESTED CAPITAL
Cash generated for the full year 2002 included $125 million of proceeds from employee stock-option exercises and $71 million of after-tax refranchising proceeds.
For 2003, the company expects cash flow from ongoing operations of over $1.0 billion, which more than funds capital expenditure needs estimated at between $800 and $850 million. Additionally, the company expects total cash generated to exceed $1.2 billion, including proceeds from employee stock-option exercises and from after-tax refranchising proceeds. The company expects return on invested capital to remain in the top tier of large-scale restaurant companies.
FIRST-QUARTER 2003 OUTLOOK
The company expects to earn at least $0.38 in reported EPS. This is equal to last year's performance, prior to a gain of $0.02 from unusual items.
Projected factors contributing to the company's EPS expectations are . . .
YEAR-2003 OUTLOOK
Yum! Brands expects to earn at least $2.00 on a reported EPS basis. This is at least 10% growth versus last year's $1.82, which is prior to unusual-item gains. No net unusual items gain/(loss) are currently expected for the full year.
The company expects worldwide revenue growth of 7% to 8% (including 2 percentage points from the favorable impact of the Long John Silver's and A&W acquisition).
This announcement contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements include those identified by such words as and other similar terminology. These "forward-looking" statements reflect management's current expectations regarding future events and operating and financial performance and are based on currently available data. However, actual results are subject to future events and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those projected in this announcement. Factors that can cause actual results to differ materially include changes in global and local business, economic and political conditions in the countries and territories where Yum! Brands operates; changes in currency exchange and interest rates; changes in commodity, labor and other operating costs; changes in competition in the food industry, consumer preferences, spending patterns and demographic trends; the effectiveness of our operating initiatives and advertising and promotional efforts; new-product and concept development by Yum! Brands and other food-industry competitors; the success of our refranchising strategy; the ongoing business viability of our franchise and license operators; our ability to secure alternative distribution to our restaurants at competitive rates and to ensure adequate supplies of restaurant products and equipment in our stores; our actuarially determined casualty loss estimates; changes in legislation and governmental regulation; and changes in accounting policies and practices. Further information about factors that could affect Yum! Brands' financial and other results are included in the company's Forms 10-Q and 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
may, will, expect, anticipate, believe, plan
Yum! Brands, Inc., based in Louisville, Kentucky, is the world's largest restaurant company in terms of system units with nearly 33,000 restaurants in more than 100 countries and territories. Four of the company's restaurant brands KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and Long John Silver's are the global leaders of the chicken, pizza, Mexican-style food and quick-service seafood categories respectively. Since 1919, A&W All-American Food has been serving a signature frosty mug root beer float and all-American pure-beef hamburgers and hot dogs, making it the longest running quick-service franchise chain in America. Yum! Brands is the worldwide leader in multibranding, which offers consumers more choice and convenience at one restaurant location from a combination of KFC, Taco Bell, Pizza Hut, A&W or Long John Silver's brands. The company and its franchisees today operate over 1,900 multibrand restaurants, generating nearly $2 billion in annual system sales. Outside the United States in 2002, the Yum! Brands' system opened about three new restaurants each day of the year, making it one of the fastest growing retailers in the world. In 2002, the company changed its name to Yum! Brands, Inc., from Tricon Global Restaurants, Inc., to reflect its expanding portfolio of brands and its ticker symbol on the New York Stock Exchange.
Yum! Brands, Inc. will hold a conference call to review the company's financial performance and strategies at 9:00 a.m. EST Tuesday, February 11, 2003.
For U.S. callers, the number is 877/815-2029. For international callers, the number is 706/645-9271.
The call will be available for playback beginning Tuesday, February 11, at noon EST through Friday, February 25, at midnight EST. To access the playback, dial 800/642-1687 in the U.S.A. and 706/645-9291 internationally. The playback pass code is 7541992.
The call and the playback can be accessed via the Internet by visiting Yum! Brands' Web site: www.yum.com and selecting "4th Quarter Earnings Web Cast." (Windows Media Player is required, which can be downloaded at no charge from the following link: http://www.microsoft.com/windows/windowsmedia/players.asp. The process could take several minutes.)
Analysts are invited to contact
Tim Jerzyk, Vice President Investor Relations, at 502/874-2543
Individual shareholders are invited to contact
Lynn Schweinfurth, Director Investor Relations, at 502/874-8918
Members of the media are invited to contact
Amy Sherwood, Vice President Public Relations, at 502/874-8200
See accompanying notes.
See accompanying notes.
See accompanying notes.


