FILE:YUM/YUM-8K-20030423193948.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
YUM! BRANDS, INC. REPORTS FIRST-QUARTER EARNINGS PER SHARE OF $0.39
 Yum! Brands, Inc. (NYSE: YUM), today reported results for the first quarter ending March 22, 2003.
Louisville, Ky. (April 23, 2003)
Key points are the following:
The company acquired, for $5 million, the Pasta Bravo brand, a full line of quality affordable pastas to enable Pizza Hut multibranding.
Note: The company acquired the Long John Silver's and A&W Restaurant brands in May 2002. For the first quarter 2003, this acquisition impacted the growth in system units +8 percentage points; system sales, +4 percentage points; and revenues, +8 percentage points.
David C. Novak, Chairman and CEO, said,
"The strength of our worldwide restaurant brands portfolio, which includes a large and growing international business, allowed us to achieve our targeted first-quarter earnings results. We are pleased we were able to meet our commitment within what is obviously a challenging operating environment.
"Our international business grew system sales 8% and profits 15% on a local currency basis. This helped us to offset performance from our U.S. portfolio, which experienced a 2% decline in system same-store sales and profits.
"Importantly, we remain focused on executing our three unique strategies that make us anything but an ordinary restaurant company.
Drive international growth - We and our international franchise partners opened 211 new traditional international restaurants in the first quarter. We expect to open more than 1,000 new traditional international restaurants systemwide again this year.
Multibrand great brands - In the first quarter, the U.S. system added 72 multibrand restaurants, including our first Taco Bell with A&W, a new multibrand combination. We recently opened our second Pizza Hut with Pasta Bravo multibrand restaurant. With our recent acquisition of Pasta Bravo, we now have opportunities to multibrand all our U.S. brands, including Pizza Hut.
Improve restaurant operations and strengthen our core-brand portfolio - We continued to make progress on operations with a key measure, team-member turnover, now at an all-time low of 100% for the first quarter of 2003."
Following is an update on Yum! Brands' international and U.S. businesses as well as key business growth drivers, which include global expansion, multibranding expansion, portfolio of leading brands, franchise fees and cash generation with high returns:
INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS
In the first quarter for Yum! Brands' international business, continued expansion of our key international brands - KFC and Pizza Hut - - was the primary driver of system sales and operating profit growth. Company restaurant margins also improved slightly in the first quarter. Lower food and paper costs related to supply chain initiatives positively impacted margin. The favorable impact of foreign currency conversion added $5 million to operating profit for the first quarter.
UNITED STATES BUSINESS
The acquisition of Long John Silver's and A&W contributed significantly to growth in U.S. system units and system sales for the first quarter. The acquisition of these two brands occurred during the second quarter of 2002. Excluding this impact, system units were down slightly versus last year, and system sales declined 2% for the first quarter.
In the first quarter, U.S. systemwide blended same-store sales decreased approximately 2%. Estimated U.S. blended same-store sales for franchise restaurants declined approximately 2%, slightly better than company results, which declined 3%.
In the first quarter, U.S. restaurant margin was negatively impacted by sales deleverage, unprofitable discounting, wage inflation and inclusion of the acquisition of Long John Silver's and A&W. The acquisition of Long John Silver's and A&W negatively impacted margin by 0.3 percentage points.
WORLDWIDE NEW-RESTAURANT DEVELOPMENT
Worldwide new-restaurant openings for the first quarter 2003 were driven by growth in new international restaurants from our global brands: KFC and Pizza Hut. Key growth drivers were the four high-growth, high-investment international markets - China, Korea, the U.K., and Mexico with 90 new openings. Franchise and joint-venture partners opened 62% of systemwide new international restaurants. Versus the end of the first quarter 2002, net traditional restaurant count increased 44% in China, 17% in Korea, 9% in the U.K., and 8% in Mexico.
One point not reflected, which primarily affects U.S. net restaurant-growth statistics, is the impact of multibranding on our U.S. restaurant system. Multibrand conversions, while increasing the sales and points of distribution of the second brand added to a restaurant, result in no additional unit counts. Though no additional unit counts are realized, these conversions, on average, drive significant increases in same-store sales and result in upgraded, new-image restaurants for the U.S. business. Similarly, a newly opened multibrand restaurant, while increasing sales and points of distribution of two brands, results in just one additional unit count.
This discussion excludes changes in licensed-unit locations, which are expected to have no material impact on the company's overall profit performance in 2003. License locations are typically nontraditional sites, such as airports, that normally have substantially lower average unit volumes than traditional restaurant locations.
MULTIBRANDING EXPANSION
In the first quarter, 72 gross multibrand restaurants were added in the U.S., and two internationally. In the U.S., company and franchise additions were 40 and 32 respectively. For information purposes, approximately 50% of the U.S. multibrand additions are expected to be conversions of existing single-brand restaurants, and 50% are expected to be new-restaurant openings for full year 2003.
FRANCHISE PARTNER GROWTH AND FEES
For the first quarter, the acquisition of Long John Silver's and A&W contributed 6 percentage points of franchise restaurant net growth and 3 percentage points of growth in franchise fees. Base-business growth in franchise fees was driven by net new-restaurant development. The favorable impact from foreign currency conversion added 2 percentage points of franchise-fee growth in the first quarter.
CASH-FLOW GENERATION
Total cash generated of $152 million for the first quarter included $11 million of sales of property, plant and equipment, $10 million of proceeds from employee stock-option exercises and $2 million of refranchising proceeds.
SECOND-QUARTER 2003 OUTLOOK
The company is comfortable with the current consensus estimate of $0.46 in reported EPS. This is an increase of $0.03 compared to last year's performance, prior to a gain of $0.02 from special items in 2002.
Projected factors contributing to the company's EPS expectations are . . .
ANNUAL OUTLOOK
The company expects earnings per share to grow at least 10% each year with the continued execution of its three key strategies: (1) drive international growth; (2) multibrand great brands; and (3) differentiate our core-brand portfolio. For 2003, Yum! Brands expects to earn at least $2.00 on a reported EPS basis. This is at least 10% growth versus last year's $1.82, prior to special items. Net special items are currently not expected to be material for the full year 2003.
For 2003, the company expects worldwide revenue growth of 7% to 8% (including 2 percentage points from the favorable impact of the Long John Silver's and A&W acquisition).
In several markets around the world, including Hong Kong, Singapore, Taiwan, Thailand and certain sections of China, an illness, SARS (Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome), has impacted overall retail sales trends and the company's sales trends. Based on information currently available, the company believes that the likely effect of SARS outbreaks in these markets is reflected in the company's current annual outlook noted above. The company currently does not expect that the SARS outbreak will affect the entire country of China. Hypothetically, if SARS were to impact the entire country of China for approximately two to three months with sales declines in the range of 20%, full-year EPS results for the company would be impacted by approximately three to four cents. Based on current trends in the total Yum! portfolio, contingencies currently available would allow the company to offset this hypothetical shortfall and maintain the $2.00 per share earnings estimate for 2003. As always, the company will continue to update shareholders each four-week period on current sales trends worldwide.
COMPANY ADOPTS STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL ACCOUNTING STANDARDS NO. 143
Effective December 29, 2002, the company adopted SFAS 143, "Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations" and recorded a cumulative effect adjustment of $2 million, or $1 million after tax, in the first quarter. This cumulative effect adjustment did not materially affect our reported EPS.
PERIOD 4 SALES
Period 4 estimated international system sales increased 5% prior to foreign currency conversion or 12% after conversion to U.S. dollars. Estimated U.S. blended same-store sales at company restaurants increased 1% during the four-week period ended April 19, 2003 (Period 4).
INTERNATIONAL SYSTEM SALES GROWTH (ESTIMATED)
The timing of the Chinese New Year in 2003 negatively impacted international Period 4 sales results by approximately 1 percentage point versus 2002.
U.S. Company Same-Store Sales Growth (Estimated)
The timing of the Easter holiday in 2003 benefited Taco Bell and Pizza Hut Period 4 results by approximately 1 percentage point versus 2002.
NOTES
Sales results for Period 5 (the four-week period ending May 17, 2003), are scheduled to be released May 22, 2003.
include only company restaurants that have been open one year or more. U.S. blended same-store sales include KFC, Pizza Hut, and Taco Bell company-owned restaurants only. U.S. same-store sales for Long John Silver's and A&W are not included. U.S. franchise and system same-store sales results are reported quarterly within the company's earnings release.
U.S. same-store sales
include the total of sales from over 11,000 company, franchise, license, and joint-venture restaurants in over 100 countries and territories outside the United States. The international business period close is one period, or one month, prior to the company's period-end date to facilitate consolidated reporting.
International system sales
This announcement contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements include those identified by such words as may, will, expect, project, anticipate, believe, plan and other similar terminology. These "forward-looking" statements reflect management's current expectations regarding future events and operating and financial performance and are based on currently available data. However, actual results are subject to future events and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those projected in this announcement. Factors that can cause actual results to differ materially include changes in global and local business, economic and political conditions in the countries and territories where Yum! Brands operates; changes in currency exchange and interest rates; changes in commodity, labor and other operating costs; changes in competition in the food industry, consumer preferences, spending patterns and demographic trends; the effectiveness of our operating initiatives and advertising and promotional efforts; new-product and concept development by Yum! Brands and other food-industry competitors; the success of our refranchising strategy; the ongoing business viability of our franchise and license operators; our ability to secure alternative distribution to our restaurants at competitive rates and to ensure adequate supplies of restaurant products and equipment in our stores; the impact that Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome (SARS) may have on our business and the economy of the countries in which we operate; our actuarially determined casualty loss estimates; changes in legislation and governmental regulation; and changes in accounting policies and practices. Further information about factors that could affect Yum! Brands' financial and other results are included in the company's Forms 10-Q and 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
Yum! Brands, Inc., based in Louisville, Kentucky, is the world's largest restaurant company in terms of system units with nearly 33,000 restaurants in more than 100 countries and territories. Four of the company's restaurant brands - KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and Long John Silver's - are the global leaders of the chicken, pizza, Mexican-style food and quick-service seafood categories respectively. Since 1919, A&W All-American Food has been serving a signature frosty mug root beer float and all-American pure-beef hamburgers and hot dogs, making it the longest running quick-service franchise chain in America. Yum! Brands is the worldwide leader in multibranding, which offers consumers more choice and convenience at one restaurant location from a combination of KFC, Taco Bell, Pizza Hut, A&W or Long John Silver's brands. The company and its franchisees today operate over 2,000 multibrand restaurants, generating nearly $2 billion in annual system sales. Outside the United States in 2002, the Yum! Brands' system opened about three new restaurants each day of the year, making it one of the fastest growing retailers in the world. In 2002, the company changed its name to Yum! Brands, Inc., from Tricon Global Restaurants, Inc., to reflect its expanding portfolio of brands and its ticker symbol on the New York Stock Exchange.
Yum! Brands, Inc. will hold a conference call to review the company's financial performance and strategies at 9:15 a.m. EDT Thursday, April 24, 2003.
For U.S. callers, the number is 877/815-2029. For international callers, the number is 706/645-9271.
The call will be available for playback beginning Thursday, April 24, at 12:15 p.m. EDT through Friday, May 9, at midnight EDT. To access the playback, dial 800/642-1687 in the U.S.A. and 706/645-9291 internationally. The playback pass code is 9727691.
The call and the playback can be accessed via the Internet by visiting Yum! Brands' Web site: www.yum.com and selecting "1st Quarter Earnings Web Cast." (Windows Media Player is required, which can be downloaded at no charge from the following link: http://www.microsoft.com/windows/windowsmedia/players.asp. The process could take several minutes.)
Analysts are invited to contact
Tim Jerzyk, Vice President Investor Relations, at 502/874-2543
Individual shareholders are invited to contact
Lynn Schweinfurth, Director Investor Relations, at 502/874-8918
Members of the media are invited to contact
Amy Sherwood, Vice President Public Relations, at 502/874-8200
See accompanying notes.
AmeriServe and other charges (credits) and Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of tax have been summed and referred to as "Special Items" throughout this press release. See accompanying reconciliations of non-GAAP measurements to GAAP results.
See accompanying notes and reconciliations of non-GAAP measurements to GAAP results.
See accompanying notes.
See accompanying notes.
See accompanying notes.
See accompanying notes.
In addition to the results provided in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ("GAAP") throughout this document, the Company has provided non-GAAP measurements which present operating results on a basis before special items. Special items include the GAAP income statement captions of AmeriServe and other charges (credits) and, in 2003, the Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of tax. Net amounts recorded as AmeriServe and other charges (credits) for the twelve weeks ended March 22, 2003 were not material. The amount reflected as Cumulative effect of accounting change is described in (d) in the accompanying notes. Amounts recorded as AmeriServe and other charges (credits) for the twelve weeks ended March 23, 2002, which were previously referred to as unusual items, primarily resulted from recoveries related to the AmeriServe bankruptcy reorganization process.
The Company uses earnings before special items as a key performance measure of results of operations for purposes of evaluating performance internally. This non-GAAP measurement is not intended to replace the presentation of our financial results in accordance with GAAP. Rather, the Company believes that the presentation of earnings before special items provides additional information to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations, excluding items that the Company does not believe are indicative of our ongoing operations
The Company has also provided a non-GAAP measurement - total cash generated - which is intended to measure cash flow inclusive of certain items not contained in the GAAP measurement of net cash provided by operating activities. This non-GAAP measurement is not intended to replace presentations of cash flows in accordance with GAAP. Rather, we use total cash generated to measure Company cash flow internally, and the presentation of total cash generated provides additional information as to cash available to the Company to fund such items as capital spending, repurchases of shares of common stock and debt repayments.


