FILE:YUM/YUM-8K-20050322161805.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d- 2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e- 4(c))
Section 1 - Registrant's Business and Operations
Section 5 - Corporate Governance and Management
Section 9 - Financial Statements and Exhibits
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
YUM! BRANDS INC. FORMALLY APPOINTS CARUCCI CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER AFTER SUCCESSFUL FIVE-MONTH TRANSITION; DECLARES QUARTERLY DIVIDEND
 
LOUISVILLE, KY  March 17, 2005  Yum! Brands Inc. (NYSE: YUM) announced that its Board of Directors formally appointed Rick Carucci, 47, Chief Financial Officer from Chief Financial Officer-Designate. In October 2004, Carucci was appointed Chief Financial Officer-Designate, establishing a transition for him to assume this position from Dave Deno, 47, who was named the Company's Chief Operating Officer at that time. Separately, the Board also approved a dividend of $0.10 per share of common stock, which will be distributed Friday, May 6, 2005, to stockholders of record at the close of business April 15, 2005. In May 2004, the company initiated a regular quarterly dividend, and the first payment was distributed August 6, 2004.
 
"Rick Carucci is a very skilled financial executive and strategic thought leader, with deep experience in every aspect of the restaurant business. Dave Deno has worked closely with Rick over the last five months, so his transition was seamless and is now complete," said David C. Novak, Yum! Brands Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. "I'm also excited Dave Deno will focus 100% of his time on operations. He has a passion for customers, team building and results, with complete knowledge of our operations. I'm confident he will drive our store level operations to the next level and continue to make progress running great restaurants. The YUM operating platform and processes are fully established, and Dave Deno will continue to ensure we raise the bar on execution," Novak added.
 
Carucci has over 20 years of restaurant industry experience. He previously served as Executive Vice President and Chief Development Officer of Yum! Restaurants International (YRI), where he was responsible for all international franchising and development, along with general management for Canada, Brazil, Puerto Rico and Middle East/North Africa. Prior to that, Carucci served as Chief Financial Officer for YRI, leading international planning, control, MIS, mergers and acquisitions, tax and treasury. He also served as CFO of the Asia Pacific Region and held various field finance positions over the years.
 
Deno is a 21-year restaurant veteran, with proven operating and leadership skills. Prior to serving as CFO of YUM, Deno served as CFO of Yum! Restaurants International. He previously served within the system in a number of restaurant operations and finance positions, and was rated as one of the company's top operators at Pizza Hut and Yum! Restaurants International.
 
Yum! Brands Inc., based in Louisville, Kentucky, is the world's largest restaurant company in terms of system restaurants with more than 33,000 restaurants in more than 100 countries and territories. Four of the company's restaurant brands  KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and Long John Silver's  are the global leaders of the chicken, pizza, Mexican-style food and quick-service seafood categories respectively. Yum! Brands is the worldwide leader in multibranding, which offers consumers more choice and convenience at one restaurant location from a combination of KFC, Taco Bell, Pizza Hut, A&W or Long John Silver's brands. The company and its franchisees today operate over 2,800 multibrand restaurants. Outside the United States in 2004, the Yum! Brands' system opened about three new restaurants each day of the year, making it one of the fastest growing retailers in the world. For the past two years, the company has been recognized in top 50 "Best Companies for Minorities," claiming the number-one spot for "managerial diversity."
Fortune Magazine's


