FILE:YUM/YUM-8K-20080715170313.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 1 - - Registrant's Business and Operations
 
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
On July 11, 2008, Yum! Brands, Inc. (Yum) executed a three-year syndicated Term Loan (the Term Loan) totaling $375 million.  J.P. Morgan Securities Inc. arranged the Term Loan on our behalf.  JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. will serve as Administrative Agent for the Term Loan, which was syndicated among 15 participants.
 
The interest rate for borrowings under the Term Loan ranges from 1.00% to 2.50% over the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) or is determined by an Alternative Base Rate, which is the greater of the Prime Rate or the Federal Funds Rate plus 0.50%.  The exact spread over LIBOR under the Term Loan will depend upon Yums performance under specified financial criteria.  Interest payments on the Term Loan are dependent upon the maturity of the underlying LIBOR tenor.
 
The Term Loan is unconditionally guaranteed by Yum's principal domestic subsidiaries and contains financial covenants relating to the maintenance of leverage and fixed charge coverage ratios.  The Term Loan also contains affirmative and negative covenants including, among other things, limitations on certain additional indebtedness and liens, and certain other transactions as defined in the agreements. These covenants are substantially similar to those contained in our Credit Facility and our International Credit Facility, both of which were filed as exhibits to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2007.  The Term Loan will be filed as an exhibit to our Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 14, 2008.
The Administrative Agent for the Term Loan, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., also serves as the Facility Agent for our $1.15 billion domestic revolving credit facility, and certain lenders under the Term Loan are also lenders under our $1.15 billion domestic revolving credit facility and our $350 million international revolving credit facility.  In addition, we have other banking relationships with several of the lenders under the Term Loan.
 
Section 2 - - Financial Information
 
Item 2.03 Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
The information described above under Section 1 - Registrants Business and Operations - Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


