FILE:YUM/YUM-8K-20081210151227.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Section 8  Other Events
 
Item 8.01 Other Events
 
On December 10, 2008, Yum! Brands, Inc. posted full-year 2009 detailed guidance on its website. That guidance is attached as exhibit 99.1.
 
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c) Exhibits
 
99.1 Yum! Brands Full-Year 2009 Detailed Guidance as posted on Yums web site
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
 Yum! Brands overall target is to grow EPS at least 10% in 2009, prior to special items, including:
Louisville, Ky. (December 10, 2008)
Our four key strategies highlighted below remain unchanged and are the key drivers of our consistent track record, global growth, and strong global cash generation. We expect to build on this track record in 2009 by continuing to execute against each of these strategies:
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL FINANCIAL INFORMATION
SPECIAL ITEMS
 
 
 
YUM! ONGOING EARNINGS GROWTH MODEL
UNALLOCATED G&A RESTATEMENT
Beginning in the first quarter of 2009 our reported segment results will reflect increased allocations of certain expenses that were previously reported as corporate and unallocated expenses.  While total YUM reported results will not change, this revised allocation is intended to better align costs with accountability in the US and YRI segments.  As we report 2009 results, we will restate 2008 segment results using the 2009 allocation methodology in order to enhance comparability.  Approximately $45 million and $5 million of full year 2008 unallocated and corporate expenses are expected to be reclassified to the US and YRI segments, respectively, as we present 2009 results.  All 2009 guidance discussed in this document is based on restated segment figures for 2008.
Note: All figures in this document are as reported unless otherwise noted as excluding foreign currency translation.
This announcement contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements  include those identified by such words as and other similar terminology. These forward-looking statements reflect managements current expectations regarding future events and operating and financial performance and are based on currently available data. However, actual results are subject to future events and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those projected in this announcement. Accordingly, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Factors that can cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to, changes in global and local business, economic and political conditions in the countries and territories where Yum! Brands operates, including the effects of war and terrorist activities; changes in currency exchange and interest rates; changes in commodity, labor and other operating costs; changes in competition in the food industry, consumer preferences or perceptions concerning the products of the company and/or our competitors, spending patterns and demographic trends; the impact that any widespread illness or general health concern may have on our business and the economy of the countries in which we operate; the effectiveness of our operating initiatives and marketing, advertising and promotional efforts; new-product and concept development by Yum! Brands and other food-industry competitors; the success of our strategies for refranchising and international development and operations; the ongoing business viability of our franchise and license operators; our ability to secure distribution to our restaurants at competitive rates and to ensure adequate supplies of restaurant products and equipment in our stores; unexpected disruptions in our supply chain; publicity that may impact our business and/or industry; severe weather conditions; effects and outcomes of pending or future legal claims involving the company; changes in effective tax rates; our actuarially determined casualty loss estimates; new legislation and governmental regulations or changes in legislation and regulations and the consequent impact on our business; and changes in accounting policies and practices. Further information about factors that could affect Yum! Brands financial and other results are included in the companys Forms 10-Q and 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
may, will, expect, project, anticipate, believe, plan
Yum! Brands, Inc., based in Louisville, Kentucky, is the worlds largest restaurant company in terms of system restaurants, with nearly 36,000 restaurants in more than 110 countries and territories. The company is ranked #253 on the Fortune 500 List, with revenues in excess of $10 billion in 2007. Four of the companys restaurant brands  KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and Long John Silvers  are the global leaders of the chicken, pizza, Mexican-style food and quick-service seafood categories, respectively. Outside the United States, the Yum! Brands system opens an average of about four new restaurants each day of the year, making it the largest retail developer in the world. The company has consistently been recognized for its reward and recognition culture, diversity leadership, community giving, and consistent shareholder returns. For the second year, the company launched the worlds largest private sector hunger relief effort in partnership with the United Nations World Food Programme and other hunger relief agencies. This effort will help save over 1.8 million people from starvation in remote corners of the world, where hunger is most prevalent.
Analysts are invited to contact
Tim Jerzyk, Senior Vice President Investor Relations/Treasurer, at 888/298-6986
Bruce Bishop, Director Investor Relations, at 888/298-6986
Members of the media are invited to contact
Amy Sherwood, Vice President Public Relations, at 502/874-8200


