FILE:YUM/YUM-8K-20080422175121.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report
(Date of earliest event reported)
April 22, 2008
Commission file number 1-13163
______________
YUM! BRANDS, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrants telephone number, including area code:   (502) 874-8300
Former name or former address, if changed since last report:    N/A
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Section 2  Financial Information
         Item 2.02      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 22, 2008, YUM! Brands, Inc. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended March 22, 2008. In this press release, YUM Brands, Inc. increased their EPS guidance. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01     Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c)        Exhibits 99.1      Press Release dated April 22, 2008 from YUM! Brands, Inc.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Yum! Brands Inc. Reports First-Quarter 2008 EPS of $0.50 per share, 19% Growth Excluding Special Items; Raises Full-Year EPS Growth Forecast to 11% from 10%, Excluding Special Items
LOUISVILLE, Ky.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Yum! Brands Inc. (NYSE: YUM) today reported results for the first quarter ended March 22, 2008.
First-quarter Earnings Per Share (EPS) of $0.50 included the benefit of a one-time gain from the sale of our minority interest in KFC Japan, and charges related to our long-term plan for U.S. brands transformation, including refranchising losses and charges related to business restructuring. Excluding these special items, EPS was $0.42 or 19% growth, which the company believes is a better indication of the underlying first-quarter performance.
FIRST-QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS
Very strong system-sales growth of +40% in mainland China and +15% in Yum! Restaurants International (YRI), fueled by same-store-sales growth, strong unit development, and favorable foreign currency translation
Worldwide same-store-sales growth of +4%, including +12% in mainland China, +5% in YRI, and +3% in the U.S. (all figures are system-wide)
Operating profit growth of +33% in China Division and +18% in YRI. Worldwide operating profit growth of +13% excluding the benefit of special items
A quarterly record of nearly $1 billion in share buybacks
EPS growth as outlined below:
Special items of $0.08 include $100 million pre-tax gain from the sale of minority interest in KFC Japan, $26 million of U.S. refranchising pre-tax losses, and $6 million of pre-tax charges related to U.S. restructuring.
1
FULL-YEAR OUTLOOK
The Company raised its full-year 2008 EPS forecast from $1.85 to $1.87 per share or 11% growth. This is prior to full-year net gains from special items of up to $0.06 per share as previously announced in the Companys full-year 2007 earnings release on February 4, 2008. Full-year EPS is expected to total up to $1.93, including all items.
David C. Novak, Chairman and CEO, said, I am pleased to report a strong start to 2008 with first-quarter EPS growth of +19% excluding special items, led by outstanding operating-profit growth from our China and YRI businesses. The global growth we are achieving in China and YRI is among the best in the retail sector as we are driving robust same-store-sales growth, record-level new-unit development and excellent returns. In fact, we fully expect in 2008, for the eighth straight year, to open at least 1,000 new restaurants outside the U.S., reinforcing our position as the leading international retail developer. While our U.S. profits are being challenged by significant commodity pressure, we achieved 3% system same-store-sales growth, and we remain confident in the steps we are taking to position the U.S. brands for sustainable growth. Importantly, we continue to return significant cash to our shareholders. During the first quarter, we repurchased $1 billion of our shares at a price we believe created significant shareholder value. Overall, this quarter again highlighted the power of our global portfolio, and on the strength of our first-quarter results, we are raising our full-year EPS forecast to 11% growth, or $1.87 per share excluding special items.
Shareholders should expect us to continue building consistent value by differentiating our portfolio of brands and driving profitable global expansion through our four key strategies that make us not your ordinary restaurant company: building leading brands in China in every significant category; driving aggressive international expansion and building strong brands everywhere; dramatically improving U.S. brand positions, consistency and returns; and driving industry-leading, long-term shareholder and franchisee value.
CHINA DIVISION
CHINA DIVISION COMMENTS
Mainland China delivered an outstanding same-store-sales growth of 12%, lapping a strong 9% last year.
We opened 88 new units in mainland China, exceeding last years development pace and further strengthening our leadership position in Chinas rapidly growing restaurant category.
Restaurant margin percentage declined due primarily to high food cost inflation. Commodity costs increased by approximately $11 million versus last year.
Foreign currency conversion benefited operating profit by $8 million.
YUM! RESTAURANTS INTERNATIONAL DIVISION (YRI)
YRI DIVISION COMMENTS
YRI achieved same-store-sales growth of 5%, lapping 7% from 2007.
We opened 158 new restaurants in our YRI Division, 96% of which were opened by our franchise partners. YRI continues to build an enviable development track record.
Franchise fees, a key driver of our high-return business, grew by 20% and is expected to reach approximately $650 million for the full year.
The strength of foreign currencies versus the U.S. dollar benefited operating profit by $7 million.
The loss of a VAT exemption in our Mexico business adversely impacted restaurant margin percentage by approximately 1 percentage point and operating profit by $5 million during the first quarter. As previously communicated, this loss is expected to negatively impact restaurant margin percentage by 1.2 percentage points and operating profit by more than $30 million for the full-year 2008.
UNITED STATES BUSINESS
U.S. BUSINESS COMMENTS
The U.S. business delivered same-store-sales growth of 3%, reversing last years negative trend.
Restaurant margin percentage and operating profit declined due largely to significant commodity inflation (cheese, wheat and chicken costs). Overall, commodity costs increased $25 million compared to prior year.
As part of our long-term plan to transform our U.S. business  which includes building permanent sales layers, investing in brand repositioning, refranchising and restructuring  we previously guided that we are expanding our refranchising of U.S. company-owned restaurants, with company ownership to potentially reach below 10% by year-end 2010. We remain confident in our ability to achieve this goal, and expect subsequent quarters activity in 2008 to be higher than the relatively low rate during the first quarter.
SHAREHOLDER PAYOUTS
During the first quarter of 2008, we purchased 27.7 million shares at an average price of $35.39, or a total of $981 million, a quarterly record.
For 2008, we expect to return over $2 billion to shareholders through both dividends and significant share buybacks.
Q2 2008 UPDATE
We expect a special item loss in the range of $0.01 to $0.03 per share due to the continuation of our U.S. business transformation, including refranchising losses and restructuring charges.
Tax rate is likely to be significantly higher than the second-quarter 2007 tax rate of 21.5%
U.S. restaurant margin will be adversely impacted by continued higher commodity costs (at a level similar to first-quarters inflation) and dramatically higher insurance expenses.
YUM! ONGOING EARNINGS GROWTH MODEL
China Division operating-profit growth of 20%. This growth is driven largely by new-unit development in mainland China. Our key metric for mainland China is system-sales growth with an annual target of +20% driven by at least 425 new-restaurant openings.
YRI Division operating-profit growth of 10%. This growth is driven mainly by new-unit development, measured by system-sales growth of at least 5% (3% to 4% unit growth and 2% to 3% same-store-sales growth) including 750 new-restaurant openings.
U.S. operating-profit growth of 5% with same-store-sales growth of 2% to 3% and leverage of the G&A infrastructure.
EPS growth of at least 10%. This reflects additional benefit from reduction in shares outstanding due to substantial share buybacks.
CONFERENCE CALL
Yum! Brands Inc. will host a conference call to review the companys financial performance and strategies at 9:15 a.m. ET Wednesday, April 23, 2008.
For U.S. callers, the number is 877/815-2029. For international callers, the number is 706/645-9271.
The call will be available for playback beginning at noon Eastern Time Wednesday, April 23, through midnight Friday, May 2. To access the playback, dial 800/642-1687 in the United States and 706/645-9291 internationally. The playback pass code is 39484056.
The call and the playback can be accessed via the Internet by visiting Yum! Brands Web site, and selecting 1-Quarter Earnings Webcast.
www.yum.com,
st
A podcast will be available within 24 hours of the end of the call at .
For your added convenience . . .
www.yum.com/investors
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ONLINE
First-quarter and are available online at
restaurant-count details, definitions of terms,
segment-results reconciliation
http://investors.yum.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=117941&p=irol-newsEarnings.
This announcement contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements include those identified by such words as and other similar terminology. These forward-looking statements reflect managements current expectations regarding future events and operating and financial performance and are based on currently available data. However, actual results are subject to future events and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those projected in this announcement. Accordingly, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Factors that can cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to, changes in global and local business, economic and political conditions in the countries and territories where Yum! Brands operates, including the effects of war and terrorist activities; changes in currency exchange and interest rates; changes in commodity, labor and other operating costs; changes in competition in the food industry, consumer preferences or perceptions concerning the products of the company and/or our competitors, spending patterns and demographic trends; the impact that any widespread illness or general health concern may have on our business and the economy of the countries in which we operate; the effectiveness of our operating initiatives and marketing, advertising and promotional efforts; new-product and concept development by Yum! Brands and other food-industry competitors; the success of our strategies for refranchising and international development and operations; the ongoing business viability of our franchise and license operators; our ability to secure distribution to our restaurants at competitive rates and to ensure adequate supplies of restaurant products and equipment in our stores; unexpected disruptions in our supply chain; publicity that may impact our business and/or industry; severe weather conditions; effects and outcomes of pending or future legal claims involving the company; changes in effective tax rates; our actuarially determined casualty loss estimates; new legislation and governmental regulations or changes in legislation and regulations and the consequent impact on our business; and changes in accounting policies and practices. Further information about factors that could affect Yum! Brands financial and other results are included in the companys Forms 10-Q and 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
may, will, expect, project, anticipate, believe, plan
Yum! Brands Inc., based in Louisville, Kentucky, is the worlds largest restaurant company in terms of system restaurants with over 35,000 restaurants, which includes over 2,000 licensed restaurants, in more than 100 countries and territories. Four of the companys restaurant brands  KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and Long John Silvers  are the global leaders of the chicken, pizza, Mexican-style food and quick-service seafood categories respectively. Yum! Brands is the worldwide leader in multibranding, which offers consumers more choice and convenience at one restaurant location from a combination of KFC, Taco Bell, Pizza Hut, A&W or Long John Silvers brands. The company and its franchisees today operate over 3,500 multibrand restaurants. Outside the United States in 2007, the Yum! Brands system opened about three new restaurants each day of the year, making it one of the fastest growing retailers in the world. For the past four years, the company has been recognized as one of Magazines Top 50 Employers for Minorities. It also has been recognized as one of the Top 50 Employers for Women by , one of the 40 Best Companies for Diversity by Magazine for the pastthreeyears, one of Magazines 30 Hottest Franchises for 2006, one of the Corporate 100 Companies Providing Opportunities for Hispanics by Magazine, one of the Top 50 Corporations for Supplier Diversity by Magazine and by as one of the Top 15 Companies for In-Kind Corporate Philanthropy.
Fortune
Fortune
Black Enterprise
Black Enterprise
Hispanic
Hispanic
Trends
BusinessWeek
See accompanying notes.
China Division includes mainland China, Thailand and KFC Taiwan
As discussed in (e) in the accompanying notes, we began consolidating an entity in China, with 182 units, in which we have a majority interest on January 1, 2008. This entity was previously accounted for as an unconsolidated affiliate. For the quarter ended March 22, 2008 the consolidation of this entity increased Company sales by $46 million, Company restaurant expenses by $36 million, general and administrative expenses by $1 million and operating profit by $1 million while decreasing franchise and license fees by $3 million.
CONTACT: Yum! Brands, Inc. Analysts: Tim Jerzyk, 502-874-8006 Senior Vice President, Investor Relations/Treasurer or Pat Grismer, 502-874-8320 Vice President Investor Relations/Corporate Strategy or Quan Nghe, 502-874-8918 Director Investor Relations or Media: Amy Sherwood, 502-874-8200 Vice President Public Relations


