FILE:YUM/YUM-8K-20081007192345.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report
(Date of earliest event reported)
October 7, 2008
Commission file number 1-13163
YUM! BRANDS, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Registrants telephone number, including area code:   (502) 874-8300
Former name or former address, if changed since last report:    N/A
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 - 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 - 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 - 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 7, 2008, YUM! Brands, Inc. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended September 6, 2008. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
          Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(c)  Exhibits
99.1  Press Release dated October 7, 2008 from YUM! Brands, Inc.
SIGNATURE
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

Exhibit 99.1
Yum! Brands Inc. Reports Third-Quarter 2008 EPS of $0.58 per share, 16% Growth; Confirms Full-Year EPS Growth Forecast of 12%, Excluding Special Items, and Announces Record International New Unit Development for 2008
LOUISVILLE, Ky.--(BUSINESS WIRE)--Yum! Brands Inc. (NYSE: YUM) today reported results for the third quarter ended September 6, 2008.
THIRD-QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS
Worldwide system sales growth of 10%, driven by broad-based international new unit development, same-store-sales growth, and favorable foreign currency translation.
Mainland China unit growth of 21% including the opening of our 400th Pizza Hut, expanding our lead position in the western casual dining segment.
Worldwide same-store-sales growth of 3%, marking our 20 consecutive quarter of global same-store-sales growth: +5% in mainland China, +4% in YRI, and +3% in the U.S.
th
Worldwide operating profit growth of 2%.
Lower effective tax rate and a 10% reduction in average diluted shares outstanding versus prior year.
EPS results as outlined below:
FULL-YEAR OUTLOOK
We expect to generate $1.89 per share or 12% growth. This is prior to full-year net gains from special items of about $0.03. Full-year reported EPS, including all items, is expected to total up to $1.92, or 14% growth.
International development is on track to deliver at least 1,400 new units, exceeding the 2007 record of 1,358 (YRI 852, China Division 506) and our most recent guidance of 1,300.
David C. Novak, Chairman and CEO, said, Im pleased to report 10% worldwide system-sales growth and 16% EPS growth for the third quarter in spite of all the bad news surrounding the financial markets and the economy. Even though our system-sales growth was solid for the third quarter, earnings benefited from a favorable tax rate and substantial share buybacks which more than offset our weak profit performance in the U.S. We are confidently reaffirming our full-year forecast for 12% EPS growth based on our year-to-date 17% EPS growth and our fourth-quarter outlook for both strong global system-sales growth and double-digit operating profit growth.
Importantly, the global strength of our business in 2008 is widespread and best demonstrated by sales growth performance for each of our divisions, with the notable exception of the KFC U.S. business. This years international expansion continues to be robust as we drive record new unit openings and profits in both China and Yum! Restaurants International (YRI). In the U.S., Taco Bell and Pizza Hut are both delivering solid same-store-sales and profit growth performance for the full year. Our KFC U.S. business continues to lag the rest of our global portfolio and is the driver of our underperforming profit in the U.S. business, along with unprecedented commodity inflation. We expect to turn around KFC performance in 2009 with the introduction of our successfully-tested Kentucky Grilled Chicken.
It is noteworthy that each of our divisions generates positive cash flow even after allowing for capital spending to invest in our significant growth opportunities. In addition, our balance sheet and substantial worldwide cash flow are advantages going forward.
Overall, the long-term fundamentals driving the growth of our global portfolio remain and continue to give us the unique ability to drive unparalleled new unit development and solid same-store-sales growth, while achieving industry leading return on invested capital. As a result, we remain confident in our business model and our ability to consistently deliver at least 10% EPS growth in 2009 and beyond.
CHINA DIVISION
CHINA DIVISION COMMENTS
Mainland China grew system sales by 19% for the quarter and 25% year-to-date, excluding foreign currency translation. This is in line with our long-term growth model of at least 20% system-sales growth.
Same store sales grew 5% in mainland China in the third quarter, lapping +11% from 2007.
Mainland China traditional units grew by 21% versus prior-year with a record 123 new units opened during the third quarter, which exceeded prior year development by 48 units.
Our Pizza Hut Casual Dining concept reached a new milestone opening the 400 restaurant in mainland China.
th
We remain on pace to exceed last years record new unit development of 506 openings in the China Division, and we expect to reach 3,000 units in mainland China by year end.
Third-quarter restaurant margin declined largely due to continued high food cost inflation, primarily chicken, as well as labor inflation. As we enter 2009, our expectation is that food cost inflation will moderate, and margin trends will begin to improve on a year-over-year basis.
Commodity inflation was approximately $22 million for the third quarter and $56 million year-to-date.
Foreign currency translation to U.S. dollars benefited operating profit by $15 million in the third quarter and $31 million year-to-date.
YUM! RESTAURANTS INTERNATIONAL DIVISION (YRI)
YRI DIVISION COMMENTS
YRIs system-sales growth for the third quarter was +7%, excluding foreign currency translation, led by franchise-only businesses which delivered system-sales growth of 11%. This performance included South Africa +25%, Middle East +23%, Caribbean/Latin America +13%, Europe +12%, and Asia +7%.
YRI achieved same-store-sales growth of 4%, lapping +7% from 2007.
Traditional unit growth was +4% versus prior year with 202 new units opened in over 40 countries during the quarter of which 98% were opened by franchisees. Year-to-date, new unit openings exceeded the record pace of 2007, and we expect to exceed last years record new unit development of 852 new openings.
Foreign currency translation to U.S. dollars benefited operating profit by $6 million for the quarter and $22 million year-to-date. We expect this trend to reverse to an unfavorable impact in the fourth quarter.
The loss of a Value Added Tax (VAT) exemption in our Mexico business adversely impacted restaurant margin percentage by more than one point and operating profit by $9 million during the third quarter. As previously communicated, this loss is expected to negatively impact restaurant margin percentage by more than one point and operating profit by more than $30 million for the full-year 2008.
UNITED STATES BUSINESS
U.S. BUSINESS COMMENTS
The U.S. business delivered system same-store-sales growth of 3%. Company same-store-sales growth of 4% was led by strong performance at Taco Bell and Pizza Hut, partially offset by a 4% decline at KFC.
Restaurant margin declined largely due to significant commodity inflation. Overall, commodity costs increased $32 million compared to prior year, driven by beef, chicken, and cheese. For the full-year, we now expect record commodity inflation of about $120 million versus our initial guidance of $55 million. Operating profit declined due to lower restaurant margin, as well as weak sales and profit results at KFC. We now expect U.S. profit to decline about 8% for the full year.
Year-to-date, we have completed the refranchising of 421 units in the U.S. and as previously communicated, we expect to refranchise at least 500 units for the full year.
SHAREHOLDER PAYOUTS
During the third quarter of 2008, we purchased 14 million shares at an average price of $35.17, or a total of $508 million. Year-to-date, we have purchased 42 million shares at an average price of $35.32, or a total of $1.5 billion. As a result, average diluted shares outstanding were down 10% year-over-year in the third quarter.
For 2008, we expect to return over $2 billion to shareholders through both dividends and significant share buybacks. Year-to-date, we have already returned $1.7 billion toward our goal of $2 billion.
SPECIAL ITEMS
Our full-year estimate is now a net $0.03 gain based on revised estimates of costs related to our U.S. business transformation including: refranchising gain/loss, restructuring and reinvestment charges. In the fourth quarter we now expect an estimated $0.05 special items loss.
CONFERENCE CALL
Yum! Brands Inc. will host a conference call to review the companys financial performance and strategies at 9:15 a.m. ET Wednesday, October 8, 2008. For U.S. callers, the number is 877/815-2029. For international callers, the number is 706/645-9271.
The call will be available for playback beginning at noon Eastern Time Wednesday, October 8, through midnight Friday, October 17. To access the playback, dial 800/642-1687 in the United States and 706/645-9291 internationally. The playback pass code is 65311659.
Online Access: The call and replay can be accessed via Yum! Brands investor website, Select Management Presentations from the left-hand menu. A podcast will be available within 24 hours of the end of the call.
www.yum.com/investors
.
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ONLINE
Third-quarter , , and are available at . Select Earnings Releases from the left-hand menu.
restaurant-count details
definitions of terms
segment-results reconciliation
www.yum.com/investors
This announcement contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. These statements include those identified by such words as and other similar terminology. These forward-looking statements reflect managements current expectations regarding future events and operating and financial performance and are based on currently available data. However, actual results are subject to future events and uncertainties, which could cause actual results to differ from those projected in this announcement. Accordingly, you are cautioned not to place undue reliance on forward-looking statements. Factors that can cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to, changes in global and local business, economic and political conditions in the countries and territories where Yum! Brands operates, including the effects of war and terrorist activities; changes in currency exchange and interest rates; changes in commodity, labor and other operating costs; changes in competition in the food industry, consumer preferences or perceptions concerning the products of the company and/or our competitors, spending patterns and demographic trends; the impact that any widespread illness or general health concern may have on our business and the economy of the countries in which we operate; the effectiveness of our operating initiatives and marketing, advertising and promotional efforts; new-product and concept development by Yum! Brands and other food-industry competitors; the success of our strategies for refranchising and international development and operations; the ongoing business viability of our franchise and license operators; our ability to secure distribution to our restaurants at competitive rates and to ensure adequate supplies of restaurant products and equipment in our stores; unexpected disruptions in our supply chain; publicity that may impact our business and/or industry; severe weather conditions; effects and outcomes of pending or future legal claims involving the company; changes in effective tax rates; our actuarially determined casualty loss estimates; new legislation and governmental regulations or changes in legislation and regulations and the consequent impact on our business; and changes in accounting policies and practices. Further information about factors that could affect Yum! Brands financial and other results are included in the companys Forms 10-Q and 10-K, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
may, will, expect, project, anticipate, believe, plan
Yum! Brands, Inc., based in Louisville, Kentucky, is the worlds largest restaurant company in terms of system restaurants, with more than 35,000 restaurants in over 100 countries and territories. The company is ranked #253 on the Fortune 500 List, with revenues in excess of $10 billion in 2007. Four of the companys restaurant brands  KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and Long John Silvers  are the global leaders of the chicken, pizza, Mexican-style food and quick-service seafood categories, respectively. Outside the United States, the Yum! Brands system opened about four new restaurants each day of the year, making it the largest retail developer in the world. The company has consistently been recognized for its reward and recognition culture, diversity leadership, community giving, and consistent shareholder returns. Last year, the company launched the worlds largest private sector hunger relief effort, in partnership with the United Nations World Food Programme and other hunger relief agencies. This effort helped save over 1.6 million people from starvation in remote corners of the world, where hunger is most prevalent.
CONTACT: Yum! Brands Inc. Analysts: Tim Jerzyk, 888-298-6986 Senior Vice President, Investor Relations/Treasurer or Bruce Bishop, 888-298-6986 Director Investor Relations or Media: Amy Sherwood, 502-874-8200 Vice President Public Relations


