FILE:YUM/YUM-8K-20080515150654.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Section 5 - - Corporate Governance and Management
 
Item 5.02      
   
   
 
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors;
Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangementsof Certain Officers.
 
 
(d) Appointment of New Director
 
On May 15, 2008, the Companys Board of Directors appointed Robert D. Walter as a director, effective immediately. Mr. Walters appointment became effective prior the Companys annual meeting of shareholders on May 15, 2008, at which Mr. Walter and the other twelve nominees recommended by the Board of Directors were elected by shareholders to hold office until the 2009 annual meeting.  As of this filing, Mr. Walter has not been appointed to a committee of the Board of Directors. There is no arrangement or understanding between Mr. Walter and any other person pursuant to which he was selected as a director.
 
(e) Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
On May 15, 2008, the shareholders of YUM! Brands, Inc. (the Company) approved the third amendment of the YUM! Brands, Inc. Long Term Incentive Plan (the LTIP) at the Companys annual meeting of shareholders.  The terms of the LTIP, as amended through the third amendment, are set forth in the proxy statement, dated April 11, 2008, for the annual meeting of shareholders.  The description of the amended LTIP in the section of the proxy statement titled A Proposal Relating to the Approval of the Companys Long-Term Incentive Plan as Amended through the Third Amendment is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01                         Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(d) Exhibits
 
99.1 YUM! Brands, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended through the third amendment, which is incorporated herein by reference to Appendix 1 to the Companys Proxy Statement dated April 11, 2008.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.


