FILE:YUM/YUM-8K-20091006182814.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On October 6, 2009, YUM! Brands, Inc. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended September 5, 2009.  In this press release, YUM! Brands, Inc. increased their 2009 EPS guidance.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

 
 
 Yum! Brands Inc. (NYSE: YUM) today reported Earnings Per Share (EPS) of $0.69, or $0.70 excluding special items, for the third quarter ended September 5, 2009.
Louisville, Ky. (October 6, 2009)
THIRD-QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
:  All comparisons are versus the same period a year ago and exclude Special Items unless noted.
Note
See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measurements to GAAP Results for further detail of the 2009 and 2008 Special Items.
1
FULL-YEAR OUTLOOK
 
The Company raised its full-year 2009 EPS forecast from $2.10 to $2.14 per share or 12% growth prior to special items, driven by stronger-than-expected full year performance in China and a lower-than-expected full year effective tax rate.
 
 
 
 
 
David C. Novak, Chairman and CEO, said, Im pleased to report we are raising our full year 2009 EPS growth forecast to 12% based on our strong year-to-date profit performance. Our global portfolio delivered an impressive 15% operating profit growth this quarter, driven by 32% growth in China and 18% growth in our U.S. business. China and Yum! Restaurants International are on track to open over 1,400 international new units this year. We are confident our industry leading international new unit development will continue to be a key factor in our ability to drive future sales and profit growth.
Our China business generated extraordinary operating profit growth of 32% in the third quarter. We leveraged our high-return, new unit development and increased restaurant margin over two points. We are especially pleased that our China team achieved margins near record levels with high average unit volumes. We are on track to open over 475 new units in mainland China. Importantly, KFC is the only Western QSR brand in the vast majority of the 600 cities in which we have a presence. Our U.S. business achieved strong operating profit growth of 18%. This can be attributed to substantial improvement to restaurant margin and significant G&A savings which offset a 6% same-store-sales decline. Theres no question the overall worldwide environment continues to be challenging. However, we are more confident than ever in the consistent earnings power of our global portfolio. We also continue to make major progress developing our significant, new sales layers which will better leverage our assets and drive future growth.
Looking to 2010, we expect to deliver 10% EPS growth. This would be the ninth consecutive year we meet or exceed our annual target of at least 10% EPS growth. Our fundamental opportunities remain intact. We continue to have the unique ability to generate unparalleled international growth, increase sales in our existing assets and drive significant free cash flow while continuing to be an industry leader in return on invested capital.
 
 
 
CHINA DIVISION
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
YUM! RESTAURANTS INTERNATIONAL (YRI) DIVISION
 
 
Note: The markets listed above generate approximately 80% of YRI operating profit. New Growth Markets include France, Russia and India.
 
 
 
 
U.S. DIVISION
U.S. REFRANCHISING UPDATE
 
In the third quarter, 98 company-owned U.S. restaurants were sold to franchisees. Year to date, we have refranchised 286 units, including 210 Pizza Huts, 50 KFCs and 26 Taco Bells. We continue to expect to refranchise 500 units in 2009. Full year proceeds from U.S. refranchising are expected to be about $175 million.
CONFERENCE CALL
 
Yum! Brands Inc. will host a conference call to review the companys financial performance and strategies at 9:15 a.m. ET Wednesday, October 7, 2009.
The number is 877/815-2029 for U.S. callers and 706/645-9271 for international callers.
The call will be available for playback beginning at noon Eastern Time Wednesday, October 7, through midnight October 21, 2009 To access the playback, dial 800/642-1687 in the United States and 706/645-9291 internationally. The playback pass code is 29944595.
.
The webcast and the playback can be accessed via the Internet by visiting Yum! Brands Web site, and selecting Q3 2009 Earnings Call.
www.yum.co
m
/investors
A podcast will be available within 24 hours of the end of the call at .
For your added convenience . . .
www.yum.com/investors
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ONLINE
 
Third quarter end dates for each division, restaurant-count details, and definitions of terms including Key Markets are available online at
http://investors.yum.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=117941&p=irol-newsEarnings
.
 
 
 
This announcement, any related announcements and the related webcast may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We intend all forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Our forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Factors that can cause our actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate; currency exchange and interest rates; commodity, labor and other operating costs; competition, consumer preferences or perceptions; the impact of any widespread illness or food borne illness; the effectiveness of our operating initiatives and marketing; new-product and concept development by us and our competitors; the success of our strategies for refranchising and international development; the continued viability of our franchise and license operators; our ability to secure and maintain distribution and adequate supply to our restaurants; publicity that may impact our business and/or industry; pending or future legal claims; our effective tax rates; our actuarially determined casualty loss estimates; government regulations; and accounting policies and practices. You should consult our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K) for additional detail about factors that could affect our financial and other results. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions and currently available data and are neither predictions nor guarantees of future events or performance. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. We are not undertaking to update any of these statements.
Yum! Brands, Inc., based in Louisville, Kentucky, is the worlds largest restaurant company in terms of system restaurants, with more than 36,000 restaurants in over 110 countries and territories. The company is ranked #239 on the Fortune 500 List, with revenues in excess of $11 billion in 2008. Four of the companys restaurant brands  KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and Long John Silvers  are the global leaders of the chicken, pizza, Mexicanstyle food and quickservice seafood categories, respectively. Outside the United States, the Yum! Brands system opened more than four new restaurants each day of the year, making it a leader in international retail development. The company has consistently been recognized for its reward and recognition culture, diversity leadership, community giving, and consistent shareholder returns. In 2007, the company launched World Hunger Relief, the worlds largest private sector hunger relief effort to raise awareness, volunteerism and funds to benefit the United Nations World Food Programme (WFP) and other hunger relief agencies. To date, this effort has raised $36 million for the WFP and other hunger relief agencies and is helping to provide 160 million meals and save the lives of about 4 million people in remote corners of the world, where hunger is most prevalent.
Analysts are invited to contact
Tim Jerzyk, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations/Treasurer, at 888/298-6986
Bruce Bishop, Director Investor Relations, at 888/298-6986
Members of the media are invited to contact
Amy Sherwood, Vice President Public Relations, at 502/874-8200
 
 
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
China Division includes mainland China, Thailand and KFC Taiwan.
As discussed in (d) in the accompanying notes, we began consolidating the operating entity that owns the KFC business in Shanghai, China, with 236 units, during the second quarter of 2009.  This entity was previously accounted for as an unconsolidated affiliate.
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
 
 
In addition to the results provided in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) throughout this document, the Company has provided non-GAAP measurements which present operating results in 2009 and 2008 on a basis before Special Items.  Included in Special Items are the U.S. refranchising (gain) loss, charges relating to U.S. General and Administrative (G&A) productivity initiatives and realignment of resources, investments in our U.S. Brands, the 2009 loss recognized as a result of our decision to offer to refranchise an equity market outside the U.S., the 2009 gain upon our acquisition of additional ownership in, and consolidation of, the operating entity that owns the KFCs in Shanghai, China, and the 2008 gain on the sale of our minority interest in our Japan unconsolidated affiliate.  These amounts are described in (d), (e), (f) and (g) in the accompanying notes.
 
The Company uses earnings before Special Items as a key performance measure of results of operations for the purpose of evaluating performance internally.  This non-GAAP measurement is not intended to replace the presentation of our financial results in accordance with GAAP.  Rather, the Company believes that the presentation of earnings before Special Items provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations, excluding items in 2009 and 2008 that the Company does not believe are indicative of our ongoing operations due to their size and/or nature.
 
 
 
 
 
The above table reconciles segment information, which is based on management responsibility, with our Consolidated Summary of Results.  Corporate and unallocated expenses comprise reductions in franchise and license fees and income, general and administrative expenses, refranchising (gains) and losses and other (income) expense that are not allocated to segments for performance reporting purposes.
 
 
 
The above table reconciles segment information, which is based on management responsibility, with our Consolidated Summary of Results.  Corporate and unallocated expenses comprise reductions in franchise and license fees and income, general and administrative expenses, refranchising (gains) and losses and other (income) expense that are not allocated to segments for performance reporting purposes.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


