FILE:YUM/YUM-8K-20090714174450.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 14, 2009, YUM! Brands, Inc. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended June 13, 2009.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Section 8  Other Events
Item 8.01                      Other Events
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 Yum! Brands Inc. (NYSE: YUM) today reported results for the second quarter ended June 13, 2009.
Louisville, Ky. (
July 14
, 200
9
)
Second-quarter Earnings Per Share (EPS) of $0.63 represents 40% growth and included the benefit of a one-time gain of $68 million recognized upon our acquisition of additional ownership in the operating entity that owns the KFC business in Shanghai, China, this quarter. Excluding special items, EPS was $0.50, representing 10% growth, which the company believes is a better indication of the underlying performance. Highlights below are based on this performance.
SECOND
QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
 
 
 
 
:  All comparisons are versus the same period a year ago and exclude Special Items unless noted.
Note
 
 The 2009 Special Items include the one-time gain recognized upon our acquisition of additional interest in the operating
1
  entity that owns the KFC business in
 Shanghai as well as charges related to our U.S. business transformation.
  See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measurements to GAAP Results for further detail
 of the 2009 and 2008 Special Items.
 
 
 
David C. Novak, Chairman and CEO, said, Im pleased to report second quarter EPS growth of 1%, before special items. Our global portfolio delivered solid performance with system sales growth of 3% and operating profit growth of 11%, prior to foreign currency translation. EPS growth was fueled by operating profit growth in each of our divisions and exceeded our expectations due to a much lower-than-anticipated tax rate Our industry leading international new unit development continues to be a major driver of operating performance in both China and Yum! Restaurants International This capability is unique to the industry and helps us consistently achieve our growth targets. Im proud of the way our teams around the world are executing our growth strategies while capturing productivity opportunities and proactively reducing costs.
0
.
.
Our China business continued to drive solid growth in system sales and operating profit while lapping its very strong year ago performance. Yum! Restaurants International also had solid, broad-based system sales and profit growth. In our U.S. business, while we achieved 8% operating profit growth, there is no question that the consumer is under pressure making it difficult to drive sales growth. Nevertheless, we were particularly pleased by KFCs dramatic results from the Kentucky Grilled Chicken launch which broadened the appeal of the brand and led to a substantial positive turnaround in KFC same-store-sales performance from a decline of 7% in the first quarter. Pizza Hut is our biggest challenge in the U.S. as it competes in a more discretionary, higher guest-check, dinner category. We remain confident in our strategy of transforming Pizza Hut to include a broader line of home meal replacement options including pasta and chicken along with our world famous pizza.
Going forward, we expect to deliver 10% EPS growth for the year in spite of a challenging global economic environment and build on our seven year track record of double-digit EPS growth. We expect to enter 2010 with even stronger brands and competitive positions everywhere we do business.  Longer term, the fundamental opportunities for our global portfolio remain intact and give us the unique ability to generate unparalleled international growth, significant free cash flow, and an industry-leading return on invested capital.
 
2
 
CHINA DIVISION
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
YUM! RESTAURANTS INTERNATIONAL (YRI) DIVISION
 
 
 
Note: The markets listed above generate approximately 80% of YRI operating profit. New Growth Markets include France, Russia and India.
4
 
U.S. DIVISION
 
 
 
 
U.S. REFRANCHISING UPDATE
 
In the second quarter, 79 company-owned U.S. restaurants were sold to franchisees bringing our year-to-date total to 188 units. We continue to expect to refranchise 500 units in 2009.  Full year proceeds from U.S. refranchising are now expected to be about $175 million.
FULL YEAR GUIDANCE UPDATE
The Company maintains its expectation for full year EPS of $2.10, or 10% growth, excluding special items.  A detailed update to our guidance can be found on our website at .
www.yum.com/investors
Overall, the update to our original guidance coming into 2009 is the result of a constrained consumer spending environment, which is driving both sluggish sales and very favorable commodity costs.  As a result, we have reduced our expectations for same-store-sales growth around the world while at the same time significantly raising our restaurant margin expectations due to deflation in commodity costs.  In terms of our growth by division, this impacts only our U.S. profit growth expectations which have been reduced.  Finally, we have reduced our full year effective tax rate forecast to account for the year-to-date favorability in rates compared to our prior expectations and have assumed some lessening in the large negative impact to operating profits from foreign currency translation based on current currency trends.  These changes result in no change to our full year EPS guidance of $2.10 per share.
 
5
 
D
EFINITIONS OF KEY MARKETS
The following list of definitions provides the significant countries and territories with at least 25 restaurants that are included in key markets that generally follow Yum! business management units for internal reporting purposes. For a complete list of countries and territories please see our detailed store count information available on our website.
includes mainland China, Thailand (KFC and Pizza Hut), and Taiwan (KFC).
China Division
 
YRI Division
includes Thailand (A&W), Japan, Indonesia, Malaysia, Philippines, Hawaii, Korea (KFC), Singapore, Taiwan (Pizza Hut and Long John Silvers), Hong Kong, and Vietnam.
Asia (ex China Division)
includes Australia and New Zealand.
Australia
includes Belgium, Spain, Portugal, Cyprus, Germany (Pizza Hut), Greece, Italy, Israel, Romania, Poland, and the Czech Republic.
Continental Europe
includes Brazil, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Costa Rica, Dominican Republic, Jamaica, Panama, Trinidad & Tobago, Chile, Ecuador, Peru, and Puerto Rico.
Latin America
includes Bahrain, United Arab Emirates, Egypt, Jordan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Morocco, Turkey, and Pakistan.
Middle East
include France, Russia, and India.
New Growth Markets
includes Great Britain, Ireland, and Northern Ireland.
UK
includes the continental United States and Alaska.
U.S. Division
 
6
 
CONFERENCE CALL
 
Yum! Brands Inc. will host a conference call to review the companys financial performance and strategies at 9:15 a.m. ET Wednesday, July 15, 2009.
For U.S. callers, the number is 877/815-2029. For international callers, the number is 706/645-9271.
The call will be available for playback beginning at noon Eastern Time Wednesday, July 15, through midnight July 29, 2009 To access the playback, dial 800/642-1687 in the United States and 706/645-9291 internationally. The playback pass code is 15982763.
.
The webcast and the playback can be accessed via the Internet by visiting Yum! Brands Web site, and selecting Q2 2009 Earnings Call.
www.yum.co
m
/investors
A podcast will be available within 24 hours of the end of the call at .
For your added convenience . . .
www.yum.com/investors
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ONLINE
 
Second quarter   and  are available online at
restaurant-count details, definitions of terms,
segment-results reconciliation
updated full year 2009 guidance
http://investors.yum.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=117941&p=irol-newsEarnings
.
 
7
 
This announcement, any related announcements and the related webcast may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  We intend all forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.  Our forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.  Factors that can cause our actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate; currency exchange and interest rates; commodity, labor and other operating costs; competition, consumer preferences or perceptions; the impact of any widespread illness or food borne illness; the effectiveness of our operating initiatives and marketing; new-product and concept development by us and our competitors; the success of our strategies for refranchising and international development; the continued viability of our franchise and license operators; our ability to secure and maintain distribution and adequate supply to our restaurants; publicity that may impact our business and/or industry; pending or future legal claims; our effective tax rates; our actuarially determined casualty loss estimates; government regulations; and accounting policies and practices.  You should consult our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K) for additional detail about factors that could affect our financial and other results.  Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions and currently available data and are neither predictions nor guarantees of future events or performance.  You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof.  We are not undertaking to update any of these statements.
Yum! Brands, Inc., based in Louisville, Kentucky, is the worlds largest restaurant company in terms of system restaurants, with more than 36,000 restaurants in over 110 countries and territories. The company is ranked #239 on the Fortune 500 List, with revenues in excess of $11 billion in 2008. Four of the companys restaurant brands  KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and Long John Silvers  are the global leaders of the chicken, pizza, Mexicanstyle food and quickservice seafood categories, respectively. Outside the United States, the Yum! Brands system opened more than four new restaurants each day of the year, making it a leader in international retail development. The company has consistently been recognized for its reward and recognition culture, diversity leadership, community giving, and consistent shareholder returns. For the second year, the company launched the worlds largest private sector hunger relief effort in partnership with the United Nations World Food Programme and other hunger relief agencies. To date, this effort is helping to save approximately 4 million people in remote corners of the world, where hunger is most prevalent.
Analysts are invited to contact
Tim Jerzyk, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations/Treasurer, at 888/298-6986
Bruce Bishop, Director Investor Relations, at 888/298-6986
Members of the media are invited to contact
Amy Sherwood, Vice President Public Relations, at 502/874-8200
 
8
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
The effective tax rate for the quarter and year to date ended June 13, 2009 was lower due to no related income tax expense recorded on a $68 million gain recognized upon our acquisition of additional ownership in, and consolidation of, the operating entity that owns the KFC business in Shanghai, China.
 
9
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
China Division includes mainland China, Thailand and KFC Taiwan.
As discussed in (d) in the accompanying notes, we began consolidating the operating entity that owns the KFC business in Shanghai, China, with 236 units, during the second quarter of 2009.  This entity was previously accounted for as an unconsolidated affiliate.
 
10
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
11
 
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
12
 
 
Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
13
 
See accompanying notes.
 
14
 
 
 
In addition to the results provided in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) throughout this document, the Company has provided non-GAAP measurements which present operating results in 2009 and 2008 on a basis before Special Items.  Included in Special Items are the U.S. refranchising (gain) loss, charges relating to U.S. General and Administrative (G&A) productivity initiatives and realignment of resources, investments in our U.S. Brands, the 2009 gain upon our acquisition of additional ownership in, and consolidation of, the operating entity that owns the KFCs in Shanghai, China, and the 2008 gain on the sale of our minority interest in our Japan unconsolidated affiliate.  These amounts are described in (d), (e), and (f) in the accompanying notes.
 
 
The Company uses earnings before Special Items as a key performance measure of results of operations for the purpose of evaluating performance internally.  This non-GAAP measurement is not intended to replace the presentation of our financial results in accordance with GAAP.  Rather, the Company believes that the presentation of earnings before Special Items provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations, excluding items in 2009 and 2008 that the Company does not believe are indicative of our ongoing operations due to their size and/or nature.
 
 
15
 
The above table reconciles segment information, which is based on management responsibility, with our Consolidated Summary of Results.  Corporate and unallocated expenses comprise reductions in franchise and license fees and income, general and administrative expenses, refranchising (gains) and losses and other (income) expense that are not allocated to segments for performance reporting purposes.
 
16
 
The above table reconciles segment information, which is based on management responsibility, with our Consolidated Summary of Results.  Corporate and unallocated expenses comprise reductions in franchise and license fees and income, general and administrative expenses, refranchising (gains) and losses and other (income) expense that are not allocated to segments for performance reporting purposes.
 
17
 
 
 
18
 
 
 
19
 
 
 

 
Note: Below are updates to guidance originally provided December 10, 2008.
This is our last update for the year unless there is a material change to our outlook.
 
The Company maintains its expectation for full year EPS of $2.10, or 10% growth, excluding special items.  A key driver for this growth is our industry-leading global new unit development.  We expect to open at least 500 units in our China Division and about 900 units in Yum! Restaurants International. Our global development remains on track with our original guidance for the year.
 
Note: All comparisons are versus full year 2008 and exclude Special Items unless noted.
 
 
ADDITIONAL DETAILS OF OUR 2009 ANNUAL GUIDANCE IS AVAILABLE ONLINE
At the following URL: http://investors.yum.com/phoenix.zhtml?c=117941&p=irol-newsEarnings. The company will provide additional updates to annual guidance for key items only when there is a material change to the full-year expectations previously noted. Otherwise these expectations for full-year 2009 remain in effect.
This announcement, any related announcements and the related webcast may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  We intend all forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts.  Our forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected.  Factors that can cause our actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate; currency exchange and interest rates; commodity, labor and other operating costs; competition, consumer preferences or perceptions; the impact of any widespread illness or food borne illness; the effectiveness of our operating initiatives and marketing; new-product and concept development by us and our competitors; the success of our strategies for refranchising and international development; the continued viability of our franchise and license operators; our ability to secure and maintain distribution and adequate supply to our restaurants; publicity that may impact our business and/or industry; pending or future legal claims; our effective tax rates; our actuarially determined casualty loss estimates; government regulations; and accounting policies and practices.  You should consult our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K) for additional detail about factors that could affect our financial and other results.  Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions and currently available data and are neither predictions nor guarantees of future events or performance.  You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof.  We are not undertaking to update any of these statements.
Yum! Brands, Inc., based in Louisville, Kentucky, is the worlds largest restaurant company in terms of system restaurants, with more than 36,000 restaurants in over 110 countries and territories. The company is ranked #239 on the Fortune 500 List, with revenues in excess of $11 billion in 2008. Four of the companys restaurant brands  KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and Long John Silvers  are the global leaders of the chicken, pizza, Mexicanstyle food and quickservice seafood categories, respectively. Outside the United States, the Yum! Brands system opened more than four new restaurants each day of the year, making it a leader in international retail development. The company has consistently been recognized for its reward and recognition culture, diversity leadership, community giving, and consistent shareholder returns. For the second year, the company launched the worlds largest private sector hunger relief effort in partnership with the United Nations World Food Programme and other hunger relief agencies. To date, this effort is helping to save approximately 4 million people in remote corners of the world, where hunger is most prevalent.
Analysts are invited to contact
Tim Jerzyk, Senior Vice President, Investor Relations/Treasurer, at 888/298-6986
Bruce Bishop, Director Investor Relations, at 888/298-6986
Members of the media are invited to contact
Amy Sherwood, Vice President Public Relations, at 502/874-8200
 


