FILE:YUM/YUM-8K-20100713200516.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On July 13, 2010, YUM! Brands, Inc. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended June 12, 2010.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
In this press release, YUM! Brands, Inc. increased their 2010 EPS guidance. 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Yum! Brands Inc. (NYSE: YUM) today reported results for the second quarter ended June 12, 2010.
Louisville, KY (July 13, 2010)
Earnings Per Share (EPS) was $0.58, excluding special items, representing 17% growth.  On a reported basis, EPS was $0.59 or 6% below last year because the company lapped a one-time gain of $68 million arising from the acquisition of additional ownership in, and consolidation of, the operating entity that owns the KFC business in Shanghai, China in the second quarter of 2009.
SECOND-QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS
 
See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measurements to GAAP Results for further detail of the Special Items.
1
: All comparisons are versus the same period a year ago and exclude Special Items unless noted.
Note
FULL YEAR OUTLOOK
 
 
 
 
David C. Novak, Chairman and CEO said, Im pleased to report we expect to deliver 12% EPS growth this year, making 2010 the 9 consecutive year we meet or exceed our annual target of at least 10%.  We followed up a strong first quarter with second quarter EPS growth of 17%, before special items.  This was fueled by profit growth in each of our three divisions, including exceptional growth of 33% in China.  Overall, system sales grew by 4% and worldwide operating profit increased 21%, prior to foreign currency translation benefit and special items.  A key driver of our overall growth continues to be new unit development in China and Yum! Restaurants International. We continue to expect to open about 1,400 international units this year and remain the industrys leading international new unit developer.
th
We are also pleased to report 10% operating profit growth in the U.S., despite flat same-store-sales.  Our primary focus is to drive same-store-sales growth during the balance of year given the challenging consumer environment.  At Yum! Restaurants International, we increased system sales by 4% prior to foreign currency translation benefit. We expect stronger sales and profit growth for the balance of the year at YRI.
Overall, we are encouraged with our strong performance in a difficult macro-economic environment.  Longer term, we continue to drive aggressive, international expansion while maintaining our industry-leading return on invested capital as we provide cash to shareholders through dividends and share repurchases.
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
CHINA DIVISION
 
 
 
 
3
 
YUM! RESTAURANTS INTERNATIONAL (YRI) DIVISION
 
 
Continental Europe system sales growth was negatively impacted by a 99 unit franchisee in Spain exiting the Pizza Hut system in the third quarter of 2009 (equivalent to 9 percentage points based on units).
1
 
4
 
U.S. DIVISION
 
U.S. BUSINESS REFRANCHISING UPDATE
 
REMINDER - DIVISION REPORTING REALIGNMENT
 
Beginning in the first quarter of 2010, Thailand and KFC Taiwan, previously part of China Division, are being reported as part of YRI.  The China Division includes solely the results of our mainland China business.  While our consolidated results are not impacted, our historical segment financial information for YRI and China Division has been restated for 2009 for consistent presentation.
CONFERENCE CALL
 
Yum! Brands Inc. will host a conference call to review the companys financial performance and strategies at 9:15 a.m. ET Wednesday, July 14, 2010. The number is 877/815-2029 for U.S. callers and 706/645-9271 for international callers.
The call will be available for playback beginning at noon Eastern Time Wednesday, July 14, through midnight Wednesday, July 28, 2010To access the playback, dial 800/642-1687 in the United States and 706/645-9291 internationally.  The playback pass code is 84264468.
.
The webcast and the playback can be accessed via the internet by visiting Yum! Brands Web site, and selecting Q2 2010 Earnings Conference Call under Investors: News and Presentations. A podcast will be available within 24 hours.
www.yum.co
m
/investors
 
5
 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ONLINE
Second quarter end dates for each division, restaurant-count details, and definitions of terms including Key Markets are available online at www.yum.com under Investors.
This announcement, any related announcements and the related webcast may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We intend all forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Our forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Factors that can cause our actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate; currency exchange and interest rates; commodity, labor and other operating costs; competition, consumer preferences or perceptions; the impact of any widespread illness or food borne illness; the effectiveness of our operating initiatives and marketing; new-product and concept development by us and our competitors; the success of our strategies for refranchising and international development; the continued viability of our franchise and license operators; our ability to secure and maintain distribution and adequate supply to our restaurants; publicity that may impact our business and/or industry; pending or future legal claims; our effective tax rates; our actuarially determined casualty loss estimates; government regulations; and accounting policies and practices. You should consult our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K) for additional detail about factors that could affect our financial and other results. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions and currently available data and are neither predictions nor guarantees of future events or performance. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. We are not undertaking to update any of these statements.
Yum! Brands, Inc., based in Louisville, Kentucky, is the worlds largest restaurant company in terms of system restaurants, with more than 37,000 restaurants in over 110 countries and territories. The company is ranked #216 on the Fortune 500 List, with revenues of nearly $11 billion in 2009. Four of the companys restaurant brands  KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and Long John Silvers  are the global leaders of the chicken, pizza, Mexicanstyle food and quickservice seafood categories, respectively. Outside the United States in 2009, the Yum! Brands system opened more than four new restaurants each day of the year, making it a leader in international retail development.
 
6
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
7
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
As discussed in (d) in the accompanying notes, we began consolidating the operating entity that owns the KFC business in Shanghai, China, with 236 units, during the second quarter of 2009.  This entity was previously accounted for as an unconsolidated affiliate.
As discussed in (g) in the accompanying notes, beginning in 2010 the China Division only consists of operations in mainland China and the International Division includes the remainder of our international operations.  We have restated the segment information for 2009 to be consistent with 2010.
 
8
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
As discussed in (g) in the accompanying notes, beginning in 2010 the China Division only consists of operations in mainland China and the International Division includes the remainder of our international operations.  We have restated the segment information for 2009 to be consistent with 2010.
 
9
 
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
10
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
11
 
See accompanying notes.
 
12
 
 
In addition to the results provided in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) throughout this document, the Company has provided non-GAAP measurements which present operating results in 2010 and 2009 on a basis before Special Items.  Included in Special Items are the U.S. refranchising gain (loss), the depreciation benefit from the KFC restaurants impaired in the first quarter of 2010, charges relating to U.S. General and Administrative (G&A) productivity initiatives and realignment of resources, investments in our U.S. Brands, the 2010 loss recognized upon refranchising of an equity market outside the U.S. and the 2009 gain upon our acquisition of additional ownership in, and consolidation of, the operating entity that owns the KFCs in Shanghai, China.   These amounts are described in (d), (e) and (f) in the accompanying notes.
 
The Company uses earnings before Special Items as a key performance measure of results of operations for the purpose of evaluating performance internally.  This non-GAAP measurement is not intended to replace the presentation of our financial results in accordance with GAAP.  Rather, the Company believes that the presentation of earnings before Special Items provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations, excluding items in 2010 and 2009 that the Company does not believe are indicative of our ongoing operations due to their size and/or nature.
 
 
 
13
 
The above table reconciles segment information, which is based on management responsibility, with our Consolidated Summary of Results.  Corporate and unallocated expenses comprise items that are not allocated to segments for performance reporting purposes.
 
14
 
The above table reconciles segment information, which is based on management responsibility, with our Consolidated Summary of Results.  Corporate and unallocated expenses comprise items that are not allocated to segments for performance reporting purposes.
 
15
 
 
 
16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17


