FILE:YUM/YUM-8K-20100203181936.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On February 3, 2010, YUM! Brands, Inc. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter and year ended December 26, 2009.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

 
 Yum! Brands Inc. (NYSE: YUM) today reported results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 26, 2009.
Louisville, KY (February 3, 2010)
 
FULL-YEAR HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
FOURTH-QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measurements to GAAP Results for further detail of the Special Items.
1
 
: All comparisons are versus the same period a year ago and exclude Special Items unless noted.
Note
 
 
 
 
David C. Novak, Chairman and CEO, said, Given the tough macro environment, I am especially pleased to announce 2009 was another strong year of performance as we continue our quest to make Yum! Brands The Defining Global Company That Feeds the World.  We reported 13% EPS growth, marking the 8th straight year that we exceeded our annual target of at least 10% growth and achieved at least 13%.  Our growth in 2009 was driven primarily by a record 509 new units in mainland China and 898 new units in Yum! Restaurants International.  At the same time, we invested heavily in our future growth drivers including infrastructure in emerging markets and developing incremental sales layers that will make our unit economics even stronger over time.
 
We are in the enviable position of having powerful brands and unmatched unit economics in China as evidenced by KFCs $1.4 million average unit volumes and restaurant margins of over 20%. There is no question we are in the early innings of profitable expansion in this massive and rapidly growing economy. We are also making progress creating major new growth vehicles by investing in India, Russia and France and beginning to develop Taco Bell into a truly global brand.  At the same time, we are aggressively developing incremental sales layers including breakfast, new beverages and expanded protein options.  Our goal is to provide more meaningful menu variety to our customers and leverage our assets throughout the day. We are putting these same building blocks in place to drive long-term growth at Taco Bell in the U.S. where we are also making steady progress transforming and restructuring our Pizza Hut and KFC businesses.
 
In 2010, we once again expect to achieve our annual target of at least 10% EPS growth.  Our profitable international new unit development will be a key driver of our growth as we execute against our obvious short-term challenge of driving same-store-sales growth.  I am confident that our teams around the world will continue to build on our track record of consistent double-digit EPS growth.
 
 
2
 
 
CHINA DIVISION
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
YUM! RESTAURANTS INTERNATIONAL (YRI) DIVISION
 
 
 
 
U.S. DIVISION
 
 
 
 
U.S. BUSINESS TRANSFORMATION UPDATE
 
 
DIVISION REPORTING REALIGNMENT
 
Beginning in the first quarter of 2010, two of our China Division businesses, Thailand and KFC Taiwan, will begin being reported as part of YRI.  The China Division will then include solely the results of our mainland China business.  While our consolidated results will not be impacted, we will restate our historical segment information during 2010 for consistent presentation.
 
CONFERENCE CALL
 
Yum! Brands Inc. will host a conference call to review the companys financial performance and strategies at 9:15 a.m. ET Thursday, February 4, 2010. The number is 877/815-2029 for U.S. callers and 706/645-9271 for international callers.
 
The call will be available for playback beginning at noon Eastern Time Thursday, February 4, through midnight Thursday, February 18, 2010To access the playback, dial 800/642-1687 in the United States and 706/645-9291 internationally.  The playback pass code is 52224616.
.
 
5
 
 
The webcast and the playback can be accessed via the internet by visiting Yum! Brands Web site, and selecting Q4 2009 Earnings Conference Call under Investors: News and Presentations. A podcast will be available within 24 hours
www.yum.co
m
/investors
 
 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ONLINE
Fourth quarter end dates for each division, restaurant-count details, and definitions of terms including Key Markets are available online at www.yum.com under Investors.
 
This announcement, any related announcements and the related webcast may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We intend all forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Our forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Factors that can cause our actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate; currency exchange and interest rates; commodity, labor and other operating costs; competition, consumer preferences or perceptions; the impact of any widespread illness or food borne illness; the effectiveness of our operating initiatives and marketing; new-product and concept development by us and our competitors; the success of our strategies for refranchising and international development; the continued viability of our franchise and license operators; our ability to secure and maintain distribution and adequate supply to our restaurants; publicity that may impact our business and/or industry; pending or future legal claims; our effective tax rates; our actuarially determined casualty loss estimates; government regulations; and accounting policies and practices. You should consult our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K) for additional detail about factors that could affect our financial and other results. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions and currently available data and are neither predictions nor guarantees of future events or performance. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. We are not undertaking to update any of these statements.
 
Yum! Brands, Inc., based in Louisville, Kentucky, is the worlds largest restaurant company in terms of system restaurants, with more than 37,000 restaurants in over 110 countries and territories. The company is ranked #239 on the Fortune 500 List, with revenues of nearly $11 billion in 2009. Four of the companys restaurant brands  KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and Long John Silvers  are the global leaders of the chicken, pizza, Mexicanstyle food and quickservice seafood categories, respectively. Outside the United States, the Yum! Brands system opened more than four new restaurants each day of the year, making it a leader in international retail development.
 
 
6
 
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
China Division includes mainland China, Thailand and KFC Taiwan.
 
As discussed in (d) in the accompanying notes, we began consolidating the operating entity that owns the KFC business in Shanghai, China, with 236 units, during the second quarter of 2009.  This entity was previously accounted for as an unconsolidated affiliate.
 
 
8
 
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
9
 
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
10
 
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
11
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
12
 
 
 
In addition to the results provided in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) throughout this document, the Company has provided non-GAAP measurements which present operating results in 2009 and 2008 on a basis before Special Items.  Included in Special Items are the U.S. refranchising (gain) loss, charges relating to U.S. General and Administrative (G&A) productivity initiatives and realignment of resources, investments in our U.S. Brands, a 2009 U.S. Goodwill impairment charge, the 2009 loss recognized as a result of our decision to offer to refranchise an equity market outside the U.S., the 2009 gain upon our acquisition of additional ownership in, and consolidation of, the operating entity that owns the KFCs in Shanghai, China, and the 2008 gain on the sale of our minority interest in our Japan unconsolidated affiliate.  These amounts are described in (d), (e), (f) and (g) in the accompanying notes.
 
 
The Company uses earnings before Special Items as a key performance measure of results of operations for the purpose of evaluating performance internally.  This non-GAAP measurement is not intended to replace the presentation of our financial results in accordance with GAAP.  Rather, the Company believes that the presentation of earnings before Special Items provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations, excluding items in 2009 and 2008 that the Company does not believe are indicative of our ongoing operations due to their size and/or nature.
 
 
13
 
 
 
The above table reconciles segment information, which is based on management responsibility, with our Consolidated Summary of Results.  Corporate and unallocated expenses comprise reductions in franchise and license fees and income, general and administrative expenses, refranchising (gains) and losses and other (income) expense that are not allocated to segments for performance reporting purposes.
 
 
14
 
 
 
 
 
 
The above table reconciles segment information, which is based on management responsibility, with our Consolidated Summary of Results.  Corporate and unallocated expenses comprise reductions in franchise and license fees and income, general and administrative expenses, refranchising (gains) and losses and other (income) expense that are not allocated to segments for performance reporting purposes.
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
16
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17


