FILE:YUM/YUM-8K-20100414181515.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02           Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 14, 2010, YUM! Brands, Inc. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended March 20, 2010.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01           Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 

 Yum! Brands Inc. (NYSE: YUM) today reported results for the first quarter ended March 20, 2010 including EPS growth of 23% excluding special items.
Louisville, KY (April 14, 2010)
FIRST-QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS
 
See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measurements to GAAP Results for further detail of the Special Items.
1
: All comparisons are versus the same period a year ago and exclude Special Items unless noted.
Note
 
 
 
David C. Novak, Chairman and CEO said, Im pleased to report that Yum! Brands is off to a strong start in 2010. Our worldwide operating profit grew by 17% and EPS increased 23%, before special items.  We are particularly pleased with our business in China, which reported robust profit growth of 37%.  This was driven by new unit growth of 14% and same-store-sales growth of 4%.  We now have over 3,500 restaurants in China, strengthening our leading position in the worlds largest growth market.  We expect to further that lead by opening about 500 new restaurants in China this year.
In the U.S., we are also pleased we have seen significant sales improvement since the fourth quarter, particularly at Pizza Hut.  While we are encouraged by this improvement, we are not yet performing to expectations as profits were down 9% and same-store sales declined 1%.
At YRI, we increased system sales by 1% and profits by 2% primarily due to new unit development.  In the first quarter, we opened over 100 new restaurants, predominantly by our franchisees, and expect to open about 900 units this year.
Although the global operating environment remains challenging, we are confident we are well on our way to another year of achieving our target of at least 10% EPS growth.  Longer term, our shareholders should expect us to continue to build stronger brand positions around the world, leverage our unique ability to deliver international new unit development, maintain our industry-leading return on invested capital, and return cash through dividends and share repurchases.
 
2
 
CHINA DIVISION
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
YUM! RESTAURANTS INTERNATIONAL (YRI) DIVISION
 
 
 
The Key YRI Markets listed above generate approximately 85% of YRIs operating profit excluding corporate G&A
1  
expense. New Growth Markets include France, Russia, and India.
Continental Europe system sales growth was negatively impacted by a 99 unit franchisee in Spain exiting the Pizza Hut system in the third quarter of 2009 (equivalent to 9 percentage points based on units).
2
 
4
 
U.S. DIVISION
 
 
U.S. BUSINESS TRANSFORMATION UPDATE
 
Special items included $56 million of expense from refranchising in the U.S. as we continue to execute our U.S. ownership restructuring plan. This includes refranchising gains from 46 restaurants including 27 Pizza Huts and 19 Taco Bells sold in the first quarter and a non-cash charge related to the offer to sell (refranchise) a substantial portion of the KFC U.S. company units. Our current company ownership stands at 16%.
DIVISION REPORTING REALIGNMENT
 
Beginning in the first quarter of 2010, Thailand and KFC Taiwan, previously part of China Division, are being reported as part of YRI. The China Division now includes solely the results of our mainland China business. While our consolidated results are not impacted, our historical segment financial information for YRI and China Division has been restated for 2009 for consistent presentation.
CONFERENCE CALL
 
Yum! Brands Inc. will host a conference call to review the companys financial performance and strategies at 9:15 a.m. ET Thursday, April 15, 2010. The number is 877/815-2029 for U.S. callers and 706/645-9271 for international callers.
The call will be available for playback beginning at noon Eastern Time Thursday, April 15, through midnight Thursday, April 29, 2010To access the playback, dial 800/642-1687 in the United States and 706/645-9291 internationally. The playback pass code is 66737706.
.
The webcast and the playback can be accessed via the internet by visiting Yum! Brands Web site, and selecting Q1 2010 Earnings Conference Call under Investors: News and Presentations. A podcast will be available within 24 hours.
www.yum.co
m
/investors
 
5
 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ONLINE
Quarter end dates for each division, restaurant-count details, and definitions of terms including Key Markets are available online at www.yum.com under Investors.
This announcement, any related announcements and the related webcast may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We intend all forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Our forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Factors that can cause our actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate; currency exchange and interest rates; commodity, labor and other operating costs; competition, consumer preferences or perceptions; the impact of any widespread illness or food borne illness; the effectiveness of our operating initiatives and marketing; new-product and concept development by us and our competitors; the success of our strategies for refranchising and international development; the continued viability of our franchise and license operators; our ability to secure and maintain distribution and adequate supply to our restaurants; publicity that may impact our business and/or industry; pending or future legal claims; our effective tax rates; our actuarially determined casualty loss estimates; government regulations; and accounting policies and practices. You should consult our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K) for additional detail about factors that could affect our financial and other results. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions and currently available data and are neither predictions nor guarantees of future events or performance. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. We are not undertaking to update any of these statements.
Yum! Brands, Inc., based in Louisville, Kentucky, is the worlds largest restaurant company in terms of system restaurants, with more than 37,000 restaurants in over 110 countries and territories. The company is ranked #239 on the Fortune 500 List, with revenues of nearly $11 billion in 2009. Four of the companys restaurant brands  KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and Long John Silvers  are the global leaders of the chicken, pizza, Mexicanstyle food and quickservice seafood categories, respectively. Outside the United States in 2009, the Yum! Brands system opened more than four new restaurants each day of the year, making it a leader in international retail development.
 
6
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
7
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
As discussed in (d) in the accompanying notes, we began consolidating the operating entity that owns the KFC business in Shanghai, China, with 236 units, during the second quarter of 2009.  This entity was previously accounted for as an unconsolidated affiliate.
As discussed in (g) in the accompanying notes, beginning in 2010 the China Division only consists of operations in mainland China and the International Division includes the remainder of our international operations.  We have restated the segment information for 2009 to be consistent with 2010.
 
8
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
As discussed in (g) in the accompanying notes, beginning in 2010 the China Division only consists of operations in mainland China and the International Division includes the remainder of our international operations.  We have restated the segment information for 2009 to be consistent with 2010.
 
9
 
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
10
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
11
 
See accompanying notes.
 
12
 
 
In addition to the results provided in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) throughout this document, the Company has provided non-GAAP measurements which present operating results in 2010 and 2009 on a basis before Special Items.  Included in Special Items are the U.S. refranchising (gain) loss, charges relating to U.S. General and Administrative (G&A) productivity initiatives and realignment of resources, investments in our U.S. Brands, and the 2010 loss recognized upon refranchising of an equity market outside the U.S.  These amounts are described in (e) and (f) in the accompanying notes.
 
The Company uses earnings before Special Items as a key performance measure of results of operations for the purpose of evaluating performance internally.  This non-GAAP measurement is not intended to replace the presentation of our financial results in accordance with GAAP.  Rather, the Company believes that the presentation of earnings before Special Items provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations, excluding items in 2010 and 2009 that the Company does not believe are indicative of our ongoing operations due to their size and/or nature.
 
13
 
The above table reconciles segment information, which is based on management responsibility, with our Consolidated Summary of Results.  Corporate and unallocated expenses comprise reductions in franchise and license fees and income, general and administrative expenses, refranchising (gains) and losses and other (income) expense that are not allocated to segments for performance reporting purposes.
 
14
 
 
 
15
 
 
 
 
 
16 
 


