FILE:YUM/YUM-8K-20110420181056.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On April 20, 2011, YUM! Brands, Inc. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter ended March 19, 2011.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 Yum! Brands Inc. (NYSE: YUM) today reported results for the first quarter ended March 19, 2011 including EPS of $0.63, excluding Special Items.  After a Special Items loss of $0.09, reported EPS was $0.54.  Yum! reconfirms full year 2011 EPS growth of at least 10%, excluding Special Items.
Louisville, KY (April 20, 2011)
FIRST-QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measurements to GAAP Results for further detail of the Special Items.  Special Items in the first quarter are primarily related to the impairment of Long John Silvers and A&W All American Food Restaurants assets in anticipation of selling the brands.
1
 
: All comparisons are versus the same period a year ago and exclude Special Items unless noted.
Note
 
 
 
David C. Novak, Chairman and CEO said, Im pleased to report strong international performance helped Yum! Brands deliver EPS growth of 7% in the first quarter, prior to special items.
Our China business continues to fire on all cylinders.  Operating profit grew 18%, prior to foreign currency translation, as same-store sales jumped a remarkable 13%, driven by a 15% increase in same-store transactions.  This strong increase in traffic gives us even more confidence that our category-leading brands in China are stronger than ever, and well positioned for sustained growth ahead.  Yum! Restaurants International (YRI) operating profit increased 8%, led by outstanding performance in high-growth emerging markets, where system sales grew 10%, both prior to foreign currency translation.  Importantly, we continue to build scale in India, the second-largest emerging market, where system sales were up 42%.
In spite of these international results, our overall performance was dampened by an unexpected 13% decline in U.S. profits.  We knew commodity inflation would be a headwind, but did not plan for a significant reversal in sales trends at Taco Bell due to false claims made about our food quality that resulted in negative publicity.
Looking ahead, our international performance and trends are strong, and new unit development is robust.  We expect the continued strength of both our China and YRI businesses to overcome a challenging year in the U.S., and that 2011 will be the tenth consecutive year we achieve our annual target of at least 10% EPS growth.
 
2
 
CHINA DIVISION
 
 
 
 
 
                 1   Annual Rate of Change
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
3
 
YUM! RESTAURANTS INTERNATIONAL (YRI) DIVISION
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
U.S. DIVISION
 
 
SPECIAL ITEMS UPDATE
 
CONFERENCE CALL
 
Yum! Brands Inc. will host a conference call to review the companys financial performance and strategies at 9:15 a.m. Eastern Time Thursday, April 21, 2011. The number is 877/815-2029 for U.S. callers and 706/645-9271 for international callers.
The call will be available for playback beginning at noon Eastern Time Thursday, April 21, through midnight Thursday, May 5, 2011To access the playback, dial 800/642-1687 in the United States and 706/645-9291 internationally. The playback pass code is 58167873.
.
The webcast and the playback can be accessed via the internet by visiting Yum! Brands Web site, and selecting Q1 2011 Earnings Conference Call under Investment Events. A podcast will be available within 24 hours.
www.yum.co
m
/investors
 
 
 
5
 
 
 
 
 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ONLINE
 
Quarter end dates for each division, restaurant-count details, and definitions of terms including Key Markets are available online at www.yum.com under Investors.
This announcement, any related announcements and the related webcast may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We intend all forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Our forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Factors that can cause our actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: food borne-illness or food safety issues; economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate; currency exchange and interest rates; commodity, labor and other operating costs; our ability to secure and maintain distribution and adequate supply to our restaurants; the effectiveness of our operating initiatives and marketing; the success of our strategies for refranchising and international development; the continued viability and success of our franchise and license operators; publicity that may impact our business and/or industry; pending or future legal claims; the impact of any widespread illness; our effective tax rates; our actuarially determined casualty loss estimates; government regulations; accounting policies and practices; and competition, consumer preferences or perceptions. You should consult our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K) for additional detail about factors that could affect our financial and other results. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions and currently available data and are neither predictions nor guarantees of future events or performance. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. We are not undertaking to update any of these statements.
Yum! Brands, Inc., based in Louisville, Kentucky, is the worlds largest restaurant company in terms of system restaurants with nearly 38,000 restaurants in more than 110 countries and territories. The Company is ranked #216 on the Fortune 500 List and generated revenues of more than $11 billion in 2010. Four of the companys restaurant brands  KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and Long John Silvers  are the global leaders of the chicken, pizza, Mexicanstyle food and quickservice seafood categories, respectively. A&W Restaurants is the longest running quick-service franchise chain in America. Outside the United States in 2010, the Yum! Brands system opened approximately four new restaurants each day of the year, making it a leader in international retail development.
 
6
 
YUM! Brands, Inc.
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
Percentages may not recompute due to rounding.
 
 
7
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
Percentages may not recompute due to rounding.
 
 
8
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
Percentages may not recompute due to rounding.
 
 
9
 
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
Percentages may not recompute due to rounding.
 
 
10
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
11
 
See accompanying notes.
 
12
 
 
In addition to the results provided in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) throughout this document, the Company has provided non-GAAP measurements which present operating results in 2011 and 2010 on a basis before Special Items.  Included in Special Items are the U.S. refranchising gain (loss), the depreciation reduction from the KFC restaurants impaired upon our offer to refranchise in 2010 that remained Company stores for some or all of the quarter ended March 19, 2011, charges relating to U.S. General and Administrative (G&A) productivity initiatives and realignment of resources, the 2010 loss recognized as a result of refranchising an equity market outside the U.S., and the impairment of intangibles and other costs relating to the planned sale of our Long John Silvers (LJS) and A&W All-American Food Restaurants (A&W) brands.  These amounts are described in (b), (c) and (d) in the accompanying notes.
 
The Company uses earnings before Special Items as a key performance measure of results of operations for the purpose of evaluating performance internally.  This non-GAAP measurement is not intended to replace the presentation of our financial results in accordance with GAAP.  Rather, the Company believes that the presentation of earnings before Special Items provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations, excluding items in 2011 and 2010 that the Company does not believe are indicative of our ongoing operations due to their size and/or nature.
 
 
 
13
 
The above table reconciles segment information, which is based on management responsibility, with our Consolidated Summary of Results.  Corporate and unallocated expenses comprise items that are not allocated to segments for performance reporting purposes.
 
14
 
 
 
 
15
 
 
 


