FILE:YUM/YUM-8K-20110202190651.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[ ] Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
[ ] Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[ ] Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Section 2  Financial Information
Item 2.02                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
On February 2, 2011, YUM! Brands, Inc. issued a press release announcing financial results for the quarter and year ended December 25, 2010.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 Yum! Brands Inc. (NYSE: YUM) today reported results for the fourth quarter and year ended December 25, 2010.
Louisville, KY (February 2, 2011)
FULL YEAR HIGHLIGHTS
 
 
FOURTH QUARTER HIGHLIGHTS
 
See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Measurements to GAAP Results for further detail of the Special Items.  Special Items in 2010 are primarily  losses from U.S. and Mexico refranchising.  Special Item gains in Full Year 2009 were driven by Shanghai JV consolidation.
1
: All comparisons are versus the same period a year ago and exclude Special Items unless noted.
Note
 
1
 
David C. Novak, Chairman and CEO, said, Im pleased to report that 2010 was perhaps our best year as a public company.  We finished the year with a strong fourth quarter that resulted in 27% EPS growth, excluding special items.  We delivered 17% full year EPS growth, making 2010 the ninth consecutive year we exceeded our annual target of at least 10%.  Im particularly pleased that performance was driven by an impressive 15% increase in operating profit, before currency translation, including gains across all of our business divisions.
I am equally pleased that in addition to strong financial performance, we improved our competitive position around the world.  The highlight of our year was the fantastic performance from our China business, as we increased operating profit 26%, prior to foreign currency translation.  KFC added 414 new restaurants in China and now has over 3,200 units throughout the country.  Pizza Hut Casual Dining further demonstrated that it is a growing, profitable, and respected force in the casual dining category.  In addition to extending our lead in China, we also built upon our position as the global restaurant leader in other emerging markets.  During 2010, over 1,000 of the 1,391 new international units we added were in emerging markets.  Yum! now has over 10,000 restaurants in emerging markets throughout the world.  Our leadership and growth potential in China and other emerging markets, coupled with the strength of our brands around the world, lead us to believe were on the ground floor of even more global growth.
As we enter 2011, we know that we face commodity inflation and a global economy that is still recovering.  However, we are fortunate that the sizable unit development we achieved in 2010 provides us with a head start toward achieving our 2011 profit growth.  I am very confident that we will build on our track record of double-digit EPS growth.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
 
 
5
 
 
U.S. REFRANCHISING UPDATE
 
 
REMINDER - DIVISION REPORTING REALIGNMENT
 
Beginning in the first quarter of 2010, Thailand and KFC Taiwan, previously part of China Division, are being reported as part of YRI.  The China Division includes solely the results of our mainland China business.  While our consolidated results are not impacted, our historical segment financial information for YRI and China Division has been restated for 2009 for consistent presentation.
CONFERENCE CALL
 
Yum! Brands Inc. will host a conference call to review the companys financial performance and strategies at 9:15 a.m. ET Thursday, February 3, 2011. The number is 877/815-2029 for U.S. callers and 706/645-9271 for international callers.
The call will be available for playback beginning at noon Eastern Time Thursday, February 3, 2011 through midnight Thursday, February 17, 2011. To access the playback, dial 800/642-1687 in the United States and 706/645-9291 internationally.  The playback pass code is 38585515.
 
The webcast and the playback can be accessed via the internet by visiting Yum! Brands Web site, and selecting Q4 2010 Earnings Conference Call under Investors: Presentations. A podcast will be available within 24 hours.
www.yum.co
m
/investors
 
 
 
6
 
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ONLINE
Fourth quarter end dates for each division, restaurant-count details, and definitions of terms including Key Markets are available online at www.yum.com under Investors.
This announcement, any related announcements and the related webcast may contain forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. We intend all forward-looking statements to be covered by the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. Our forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, which may cause actual results to differ materially from those projected. Factors that can cause our actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to: food borne-illness or food safety issues; economic and political conditions in the countries where we operate; currency exchange and interest rates; commodity, labor and other operating costs; our ability to secure and maintain distribution and adequate supply to our restaurants; the effectiveness of our operating initiatives and marketing; the success of our strategies for refranchising and international development; the continued viability and success of our franchise and license operators; publicity that may impact our business and/or industry; pending or future legal claims; the impact of any widespread illness; our effective tax rates; our actuarially determined casualty loss estimates; government regulations; accounting policies and practices; and competition, consumer preferences or perceptions. You should consult our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission (including the information set forth under the captions Risk Factors and Forward-Looking Statements in our Annual Report on Form 10-K) for additional detail about factors that could affect our financial and other results. Forward-looking statements are based on current expectations and assumptions and currently available data and are neither predictions nor guarantees of future events or performance. You should not place undue reliance on forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date hereof. We are not undertaking to update any of these statements.
Yum! Brands, Inc., based in Louisville, Kentucky, is the worlds largest restaurant company in terms of system restaurants, with more than 37,000 restaurants in over 110 countries and territories. The company is ranked #216 on the Fortune 500 List, with revenues of nearly $11 billion in 2009. Four of the companys restaurant brands  KFC, Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and Long John Silvers  are the global leaders of the chicken, pizza, Mexicanstyle food and quickservice seafood categories, respectively. Outside the United States in 2010, the Yum! Brands system opened nearly four new restaurants each day of the year, making it a leader in international retail development.
 
7
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
8
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
As discussed in (d) in the accompanying notes, we began consolidating the operating entity that owns the KFC business in Shanghai, China, with 236 units, during the second quarter of 2009.  This entity was previously accounted for as an unconsolidated affiliate.
As discussed in (g) in the accompanying notes, beginning in 2010 the China Division only consists of operations in mainland China and the International Division includes the remainder of our international operations.  We have restated the segment information for 2009 to be consistent with 2010.
 
9
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
As discussed in (g) in the accompanying notes, beginning in 2010 the China Division only consists of operations in mainland China and the International Division includes the remainder of our international operations.  We have restated the segment information for 2009 to be consistent with 2010.
 
10
 
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
11
 
 
 
See accompanying notes.
 
 
12
 
See accompanying notes.
 
13
 
 
In addition to the results provided in accordance with U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles (GAAP) throughout this document, the Company has provided non-GAAP measurements which present operating results in 2010 and 2009 on a basis before Special Items.  Included in Special Items are the U.S. refranchising gain (loss), the depreciation reduction from the KFC restaurants impaired upon our offer to refranchise in 2010, charges relating to U.S. General and Administrative (G&A) productivity initiatives and realignment of resources, investments in our U.S. Brands, the losses recognized as a result of refranchising equity markets outside the U.S., a 2009 U.S. Goodwill impairment charge, and the 2009 gain upon our acquisition of additional ownership in, and consolidation of, the operating entity that owns the KFCs in Shanghai, China.  These amounts are described in (d), (e) and (f) in the accompanying notes.
 
The Company uses earnings before Special Items as a key performance measure of results of operations for the purpose of evaluating performance internally.  This non-GAAP measurement is not intended to replace the presentation of our financial results in accordance with GAAP.  Rather, the Company believes that the presentation of earnings before Special Items provides additional information to investors to facilitate the comparison of past and present operations, excluding items in 2010 and 2009 that the Company does not believe are indicative of our ongoing operations due to their size and/or nature.
 
 
14
 
 
The above table reconciles segment information, which is based on management responsibility, with our Consolidated Summary of Results.  Corporate and unallocated expenses comprise items that are not allocated to segments for performance reporting purposes.
 
15
 
The above table reconciles segment information, which is based on management responsibility, with our Consolidated Summary of Results.  Corporate and unallocated expenses comprise items that are not allocated to segments for performance reporting purposes.
 
16
 
Notes to the Consolidated Summary of Results, Consolidated Balance Sheets
 
 
17
 
 
 
 
 
18
 
 


