FILE:MNST/MNST-8K-20060308132200.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, DC 20549
 
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section
 
13 or 15(d)
 
of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
March 6, 2006
 
Hansen Natural Corporation
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation)
 
1010 Railroad Street
Corona, California 92882
(Address of principal executive offices and zip code)
(951) 739 - 6200
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Item 5.03 Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
 
Effective March 6, 2006, the Board of Directors of the Hansen Natural Corporation, (the "Company") approved amendments to the Company's By-laws (the "By-laws").  The following is a summary of changes effected by the amendments to the By-laws, which is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amended and Restated By-laws (the "Amended By-laws") filed as Exhibit 3.2 hereto.
 
The Amended Bylaws added a new Section 14 in Article I of the By-laws. Section 14 provides for detailed procedures with respect to notice of stockholder business and nominations.
 
The Amended Bylaws added a new Section 15 in Article I of the By-laws. Section 15 details the procedure for the conduct of meetings of stockholders.
 
The Amended Bylaws revised the first sentence of Section 2 of Article 1 so that special meetings of the stockholders may be called by the Board of Directors, the Chairman, the President or the Secretary, but not by any other person or persons. The provision that the President or Secretary shall call a special meeting at the written request of the holders of record of a majority of the outstanding shares of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting was removed from this sentence of Section 2 of Article 1.
 
The Amended Bylaws also replaced Section 11 of Article I in its entirety. Section 11 clarifies the mechanism for the determination of stockholders of record. The language deleted from Section 11 read as follows, "The Board of Directors is authorized to designate a day, not more than sixty (60) days nor less than ten (10) days prior to the day of holding any meeting of stockholders as the day as of which those stockholders entitled to notice of, and to vote at, such meeting shall be determined; and only stockholders of record on such day shall be entitled to notice or to vote at such meeting."
 
The Amended Bylaws also added sections (b), (c), and (d) in Section 10 of Article I with respect to actions of stockholders without a meeting.
 
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

AMENDED AND RESTATED BY-LAWS
OF
HANSEN NATURAL CORPORATION
 
ARTICLE I
 
MEETINGS OF STOCKHOLDERS
SECTION 1.    
Annual Meeting
. A meeting of stockholders shall be held annually for the election of directors and the transaction of such other business as is related to the purpose or purposes set forth in the notice of meeting on such date and at such time as may be fixed by the Board of Directors.
SECTION 2.    
Special Meetings
. Special meetings of the stockholders for any purpose may be called by the Board of Directors, the Chairman, the President or the Secretary, but such special meetings may not be called by any other person or persons. Special meetings shall be held at such time as may be fixed in the call and stated in the notices of meeting or waiver thereof. At any special meeting only such business may be transacted as is related to the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is convened.
SECTION 3.    
Place of Meetings
. Meetings of stockholders shall be held at such place, within or without the State of Delaware or the United States of America, as may be fixed in the call and stated in the notice of meeting or waiver thereof.
SECTION 4.    
Notice of Meetings; Adjourned Meetings
. Notice of each meeting of stockholders shall be given in writing and shall state the place, date and hour of the meeting. The purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called shall be stated in the notice of each special meeting and of each annual meeting at which any business other than the election of directors is to be transacted.
A copy of the notice of any meeting shall be given, personally or by mail, not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting, to each stockholder entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice is given when deposited in the United States mail, with postage thereon prepaid, directed to the stockholder at his address as it appears on the record of stockholders.
When a meeting is adjourned for less than thirty (30) days in any one adjournment, it shall not be necessary to give any notice of the adjourned meeting if the time and place to which the meeting is adjourned are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken, and at the adjourned meeting any business may be transacted that might have been transacted on the original date of the meeting. When a meeting is adjourned for thirty (30) days or more, notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given as in the case of an original meeting.
SECTION 5.    
Waiver of Notice
. The transactions of any meeting of stockholders, however called and with whatever notice, if any, are as valid as those at a meeting duly held after regular call and notice, if: (a) all the stockholders entitled to vote are present in person or by proxy and no objection to holding the meeting is made by any stockholder; or if (b) a quorum is present either in person or by proxy and no objection to holding the meeting is made by anyone so present, and if, either before or after the meeting, each of the persons entitled to vote, not present in person or by proxy, signed a written waiver of notice, or a consent to the holding of the meeting, or an approval of the action taken as shown by the minutes thereof.
 
 
Whenever notice is required to be given to any stockholder, a written waiver thereof signed by such stockholder, whether before or after the time thereon stated, shall be deemed equivalent to such notice. Attendance of a person at a meeting of stockholders shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except when such stockholder attends for the express purpose of objecting, at the beginning of the meeting, to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened. Neither the business to be transacted at, nor the purpose of, any meeting of stockholders need be specified in any written waiver of notice thereof.
SECTION 6.    
Qualification of Voters
. Except as may be otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, every stockholder of record shall be entitled to one vote on each matter submitted to a vote at a meeting of stockholders for every share standing in his name on the record of stockholders.
SECTION 7.    
Quorum
. At any meeting of the stockholders the presence, in person or by proxy, of the holders of one-third of the shares entitled to vote thereat shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of any business. When a quorum is once present to organize a meeting, it is not broken by the subsequent withdrawal of any stockholders. The stockholders present may adjourn the meeting despite the absence of a quorum.
SECTION 8.    
Proxies
. Every stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders or to express consent or dissent without a meeting may authorize another person or persons to act for him, by proxy. Every proxy must be executed by the stockholder or his attorney-in-fact. No proxy shall be valid after the expiration of three (3) years from the date thereof unless otherwise provided in the proxy. Every proxy shall be revocable at the pleasure of the stockholder executing it, except as otherwise provided therein and as permitted by law. Except as otherwise provided in the proxy, any proxy holder may appoint in writing a substitute to act in his place.
SECTION 9.    
Voting
. Except as otherwise required by law, directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast at a meeting of stockholders entitled to vote in the election, in person or by proxy by the holders of shares; provided a quorum is present. Whenever any corporate action, other than the election of directors, is to be taken by vote of the stockholders at a meeting, it shall, except as otherwise required by law or the Certificate of Incorporation, be authorized by a majority of the votes cast thereat, in person or by proxy.
(a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, whenever stockholders are required or permitted to take any action at a meeting or by vote, such action may be taken without a meeting, without prior notice and without a vote, by consent in writing setting forth the action so taken, signed by the holders of outstanding shares having not less than the minimum number of votes that would be necessary to authorize or take such action at a meeting at which all shares entitled to vote thereon were present and voted. Prompt notice of the taking of the corporate action without a meeting by less than unanimous written consent shall be given to those stockholders who have not consented in writing.
(b) In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which date shall not be more than ten (10) days
 
 
after the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors. Any stockholder of record seeking to have the stockholders authorize or take corporate action by written consent shall, by written notice to the Secretary, request that the Board of Directors fix a record date. The Board of Directors shall promptly, but in all events within ten (10) days after the date on which such written notice is received, adopt a resolution fixing the record date (unless a record date has previously been fixed by the Board of Directors pursuant to the first sentence of this Section 10(b)). If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors pursuant to the first sentence of this Section 10(b) or otherwise within ten (10) days after the date on which such written notice is received, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting, when no prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law, shall be the first date after the expiration of such ten (10) day time period on which a signed written consent setting forth the action taken or proposed to be taken is delivered to the Corporation by delivery to its registered office in Delaware, its principal place of business, or any officer or agent of the Corporation having custody of the book in which proceedings of meetings of stockholders are recorded. If no record date has been fixed by the Board of Directors pursuant to the first sentence of this Section 10(b), the record date for determining stockholders entitled to consent to corporate action in writing without a meeting if prior action by the Board of Directors is required by applicable law shall be at the close of business on the date on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution taking such prior action.
(c)        In the event of the delivery, in the manner provided by this Section 10 and applicable law, to the Corporation of written consent or consents to take corporate action and/or any related revocation
 
 
or revocations, the Corporation shall engage independent inspectors of elections for the purpose of performing promptly a ministerial review of the validity of the consents and revocations. For the purpose of permitting the inspectors to perform such review, no action by written consent and without a meeting shall be effective until such inspectors have completed their review, determined that the requisite number of valid and unrevoked consents delivered to the Corporation in accordance with this Section 10 and applicable law have been obtained to authorize or take the action specified in the consents, and certified such determination for entry in the records of the Corporation kept for the purpose of recording the proceedings of meetings of stockholders. Nothing contained in this Section 10(c) shall in any way be construed to suggest or imply that the Board of Directors or any stockholder shall not be entitled to contest the validity of any consent or revocation thereof, whether before or after such certification by the independent inspectors, or to take any other action (including, without limitation, the commencement, prosecution or defense of any litigation with respect thereto, and the seeking of injunctive relief in such litigation).
(d)        Every written consent shall bear the date of signature of each stockholder who signs the consent and no written consent shall be effective to take the corporate action referred to therein unless, within sixty (60) days after the earliest dated written consent received in accordance with this Section 10, a valid written consent or valid written consents signed by a sufficient number of stockholders to take such action are delivered to the Corporation in the manner prescribed in this Section 10 and applicable law, and not revoked."
SECTION 11.  
Determination of Stockholders of Record
. In order that the Corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders or any adjournment
 
 
thereof, or entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights, or entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action (other than action by consent in writing without a meeting), the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors, and which record date: (i) in the case of determination of stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders or adjournment thereof, shall, unless otherwise required by law, be not more than sixty (60) nor less than ten (10) days before the date of such meeting; and (ii) in the case of any other action (other than action by consent in writing without a meeting), shall be not more than sixty (60) days prior to such other action. If no record date is fixed: (i) the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held; and (ii) the record date for determining stockholders for any other purpose (other than action by consent in writing without a meeting) shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the resolution relating thereto. A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting.
SECTION 12.        
List of Stockholders Entitled to Vote
. The officer who has charge of the stock ledger of the Corporation shall prepare and make, at least ten days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder. Such list shall
 
 
be open to the examination of any stockholder, for any purpose germane to the meeting, during ordinary business hours, for a period of at least ten days prior to the meeting, either at a place within the city where the meeting is to be held (which place shall be specified in the notice of the meeting), or, if not so specified, at the place where the meeting is to be held. The list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present.
SECTION 13.  
Inspectors of Election
. The Chairman of any meeting of the stockholders may appoint one or more Inspectors of Election. Any Inspector so appointed to act at any meeting of the stockholders, before entering upon the discharge of his or her duties, shall be sworn faithfully to execute the duties of an Inspector at such meeting with strict impartiality, and according to the best of his or her ability.
SECTION 14.  
Notice of Stockholder Business and Nominations
(A)        Annual Meetings of Stockholders.  
(1)        Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors and the proposal of business to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders only (a) pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto), (b) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (c) by any stockholder of the Corporation who was a stockholder of record of the Corporation at the time the notice provided for in this Section 14 is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 14.
 
 
(2)       For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (c) of paragraph (A)(1) of this Section 14, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the Corporation and any such proposed business other than the nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors must constitute a proper matter for stockholder action. To be timely, a stockholder's notice shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the ninetieth day nor earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting (provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than thirty days before or more than seventy days after such anniversary date, notice by the stockholder must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth day prior to such annual meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made by the Corporation). In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of an annual meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above. Such stockholder's notice shall set forth: (a) as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election as a director (i) all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to and in accordance with Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act") and (ii) such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected; (b) as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief
 
 
description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the By-laws of the Corporation, the language of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any material interest in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; and (c) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made (i) the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the Corporation's books, and of such beneficial owner, (ii) the class and number of shares of capital stock of the Corporation which are owned beneficially and of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner, (iii) a representation that the stockholder is a holder of record of stock of the Corporation entitled to vote at such meeting and intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business or nomination, and (iv) a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, intends or is part of a group which intends (a) to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least the percentage of the Corporation's outstanding capital stock required to approve or adopt the proposal or elect the nominee and/or (b) otherwise to solicit proxies from stockholders in support of such proposal or nomination. The foregoing notice requirements of this Section 14 shall be deemed satisfied by a stockholder if the stockholder has notified the Corporation of his or her intention to present a proposal or nomination at an annual meeting in compliance with applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act and such stockholder's proposal or nomination has been included in a proxy statement that has been prepared by the Corporation to solicit proxies for such annual meeting. The Corporation may require any
 
 
proposed nominee to furnish such other information as it may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of such proposed nominee to serve as a director of the Corporation.
         (3)        Notwithstanding anything in the second sentence of paragraph (A)(2) of this Section 14 to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors at an annual meeting is increased and there is no public announcement by the Corporation naming the nominees for the additional directorships at least one hundred days prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting, a stockholder's notice required by this Section 14 shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for the additional directorships, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not later than the close of business on the tenth day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the Corporation.
                    (B)       Special Meetings of Stockholders. Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the Corporation's notice of meeting (1) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (2) provided that the Board of Directors has determined that directors shall be elected at such meeting, by any stockholder of the Corporation who is a stockholder of record at the time the notice provided for in this Section 14 is delivered to the Secretary of the Corporation, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and upon such election and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 14. In the event the Corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any such stockholder entitled to vote in such election of
 
 
directors may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be) for election to such position(s) as specified in the Corporation's notice of meeting, if the stockholder's notice required by paragraph (A)(2) of this Section 14 shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive offices of the Corporation not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the ninetieth day prior to such special meeting or the tenth day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting. In no event shall the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a special meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
        (1)        Only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 14 shall be eligible to be elected at an annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to serve as directors and only such business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 14. Except as otherwise provided by law, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power and duty (a) to determine whether a nomination or any business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 14 (including whether the stockholder or beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination or proposal is made solicited (or is part of a group which solicited) or did not so solicit, as the case may be, proxies in support of such stockholder's
 
 
nominee or proposal in compliance with such stockholder's representation as required by clause (A)(2)(c)(iv) of this Section 14) and (b) if any proposed nomination or business was not made or proposed in compliance with this Section 14, to declare that such nomination shall be disregarded or that such proposed business shall not be transacted. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 14, unless otherwise required by law, if the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the annual or special meeting of stockholders of the Corporation to present a nomination or proposed business, such nomination shall be disregarded and such proposed business shall not be transacted, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the Corporation. For purposes of this Section 14, to be considered a qualified representative of the stockholder, a person must be authorized by a writing executed by such stockholder or an electronic transmission delivered by such stockholder to act for such stockholder as proxy at the meeting of stockholders and such person must produce such writing or electronic transmission, or a reliable reproduction of the writing or electronic transmission, at the meeting of stockholders.
(2)       For purposes of this Section 14, "public announcement" shall include disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the Corporation with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Section 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.
(3)       Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 14, a stockholder shall also comply with all applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and
 
 
regulations thereunder with respect to the matters set forth in this Section 14. Nothing in this Section 14 shall be deemed to affect any rights (a) of stockholders to request inclusion of proposals or nominations in the Corporation's proxy statement pursuant to applicable rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act or (b) of the holders of any series of Preferred Stock to elect directors pursuant to any applicable provisions of the certificate of incorporation."
SECTION 15.       
Conduct of Meetings
. The date and time of the opening and the closing of the polls for each matter upon which the stockholders will vote at a meeting shall be announced at the meeting by the person presiding over the meeting. The Board of Directors may adopt by resolution such rules and regulations for the conduct of the meeting of stockholders as it shall deem appropriate. Except to the extent inconsistent with such rules and regulations as adopted by the Board of Directors, the person presiding over any meeting of stockholders shall have the right and authority to convene and to adjourn the meeting, to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such presiding person, are appropriate for the proper conduct of the meeting. Such rules, regulations or procedures, whether adopted by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the presiding person of the meeting, may include, without limitation, the following: (i) the establishment of an agenda or order of business for the meeting; (ii) rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present; (iii) limitations on attendance at or participation in the meeting to stockholders of record of the Corporation, their duly authorized and constituted proxies or such other persons as the presiding person of the meeting shall determine; (iv) restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof; and (v) limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants. The presiding person at any meeting of stockholders,
 
 
in addition to making any other determinations that may be appropriate to the conduct of the meeting, shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a matter or business was not properly brought before the meeting and if such presiding person should so determine, such presiding person shall so declare to the meeting and any such matter or business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted or considered. Unless and to the extent determined by the Board of Directors or the person presiding over the meeting, meetings of stockholders shall not be required to be held in accordance with the rules of parliamentary procedure."
ARTICLE II
                   
 
BOARD OF DIRECTORS
SECTION 1.    
Power of Board and Qualification of Directors
. The business and affairs of the Corporation shall be managed by the Board of Directors.
SECTION 2.    
Number of Directors
. The number of directors constituting the whole Board of Directors shall be such number not less than one (1) nor more than fifteen (15) as may be fixed from time to time by resolution adopted by the stockholders or by the Board.
SECTION 3.    
Election and Term of Directors
. At each annual meeting of stockholders, directors shall be elected to serve until the next annual meeting and until their respective successors are elected and qualified.
SECTION 4.    
Resignations
. Any director of the Corporation may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board, the President or the Secretary of the Corporation. Such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein; and unless otherwise specified therein the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
SECTION 5.    
Removal of Directors
. Any or all of the directors may be removed with or without cause by vote of the stockholders.
SECTION 6.    
Newly Created Directorships and Vacancies
. Newly created directorships resulting from an increase in the number of directors or vacancies occurring in the Board of Directors for any reason may be filled by vote of a majority of the directors then in office, even if less than a quorum exists, or may be filled by the stockholders. Vacancies occurring as a result of the removal of directors by stockholders without cause shall be filled by the stockholders. A director elected to fill a vacancy or a newly created directorship shall be elected to hold office until the next annual meeting of stockholders.
SECTION 7.    
Executive and Other Committees of Directors
. The Board of Directors, by resolution adopted by a majority of the whole Board, may designate from among its members an executive committee and other committees to serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors, each consisting of one or more directors, and each of which, to the extent provided in the resolution, shall have all the authority of the Board to the full extent authorized by law, including the power or authority to declare a dividend or to authorize the issuance of stock. The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any such committee, who may replace any absent member or members at any meeting of such committee.
SECTION 8.    
Compensation of Directors
. The Board of Directors shall have authority to fix the compensation of directors for services in any capacity, or to allow a fixed sum plus expenses, if any, for attendance at meetings of the Board or of committees designated thereby.
SECTION 9.    
Interest of Director in a Transaction
. No contract or transaction between the Corporation and one or more of its directors or officers, or between the Corporation and any other corporation, partnership, association or other organization in which one or more of its directors or officers are directors or officers, or have a financial interest, shall be void or voidable solely for this reason, or solely because the director or officer is present at or participates in the meeting of the Board or committee thereof which authorizes the contract or transaction, or solely because his or their votes are counted for such purpose, if:
(a)  The material facts as to his relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the Board of Directors or the committee, and the Board or committee in good faith authorizes the contract or transaction by the affirmative votes of a majority of the disinterested directors, even though the disinterested directors be less than a quorum; or
(b)  The material facts as to his relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the stockholders entitled to vote thereon, and the contract or transaction is specifically approved in good faith by vote of the stockholders; or
(c)  The contract or transactions is fair as to the Corporation as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified, by the Board of Directors, a committee thereof, or the stockholders.
Common or interested directors may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Board of Directors or of a committee which authorized the contract or transaction.
ARTICLE III
                 
 
MEETINGS OF THE BOARD
SECTION 1.    
Regular Meetings
. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such times and places, within or without the State of Delaware, or the United States of America, as may from time to time be fixed by the Board or the Chairman.
SECTION 2.    
Special Meetings; Notice; Waiver
. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any time and place, within or without the State of Delaware or the United States of America, upon the call of the Chairman of the Board, the President or the Secretary, by oral, telegraphic or written notice, duly given to or sent or mailed or telefaxed to each director not less than one (1) day before such meeting, unless a shorter period of notice is appropriate under the circumstances. Special meetings shall be called by the Chairman of the Board, the President or the Secretary on the written request of any two directors.
Notice of a special meeting need not be given to any director who submits a signed waiver of notice whether before or after the meeting, or who attends the meeting without protesting, prior thereto or at its commencement, the lack of notice to him.
A notice, or waiver of notice, need not specify the purpose of any special meeting of the Board of Directors.
 
 
SECTION 3.    
Quorum; Action by the Board; Adjournment
. At all meetings of the Board of Directors, one-third of the whole Board shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, except that when a Board of one director is authorized, then one director shall constitute a quorum.
The vote of a majority of the directors present at the time of the vote, if a quorum is present at such time, shall be the act of the Board, except as may be otherwise specifically provided by law or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these By-Laws.
A majority of the directors present, whether or not a quorum is present, may adjourn any meeting to another time and place.
SECTION 4.    
Action Without a Meeting
. Action taken by a majority of the directors or members of a committee without a meeting is nevertheless Board or committee action if written consent to the action in question is signed by all the directors or members of the committee, as the case may be, and filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the Board or committee, whether done before or after the action so taken.
SECTION 5.    
Action Taken by Conference Telephone
. Members of the Board of Directors or any committee of the Corporation may hold and/or participate in a meeting by means of conference telephone or similar communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other.
 
 
Article IV
                 
 
OFFICERS
SECTION 1.    
Officers
. The Board of Directors shall elect a Chairman, President, one or more Vice Presidents, a Secretary and a Treasurer of the Corporation and from time to time may elect or appoint such other officers as it may determine. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person.
Securities of other corporations held by the Corporation may be voted by any officer designated by the Board and, in the absence of any such designation, by the Chairman, the President, any Vice President, the Secretary, or the Treasurer.
The Board may require any officer to give security for the faithful performance of his duties.
SECTION 2.    
Chairman of the Board
. The Chairman of the Board shall preside as chairman of all meetings of directors and stockholders and shall be the chief executive officer of the Corporation, unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, with all the rights and powers incident to that position.
SECTION 3.    
Vice Chairman of the Board
. The Vice Chairman of the Board shall preside as chairman of all meetings of the directors and stockholders whenever the Chairman of the Board is absent and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed or assigned to him by the Board of Directors or the Chairman.
 
 
SECTION 4.    
President
. The President shall be the chief operating officer of the Corporation, unless otherwise determined by the Board of Directors, with all the rights and powers incident to that position.
SECTION 5.    
Vice President
. The Vice Presidents shall perform such duties as may be prescribed or assigned to them by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President. In the absence of the President, the first-elected Executive Vice President shall perform the duties of the President. In the event of the refusal or incapacity of the President to function as such, the first-elected Executive Vice President and the other Vice Presidents, in order of their rank, shall so perform the duties of the President; and the order of rank of such other Vice Presidents shall be determined by the designated rank of their offices or, in the absence of such designation, by seniority in the office of Vice President; provided that said order or rank may be established otherwise by action of the Board of Directors from time to time.
SECTION 6.    
Treasurer
. The Treasurer shall perform all the duties customary to that office, and shall have the care and custody of the funds and securities of the Corporation. He shall at all reasonable times exhibit his books and accounts to any director upon application, and shall give such bond or bonds for the faithful performance of his duties with such surety or sureties as the Board of Directors from time to time may determine.
SECTION 7.    
Secretary
. The Secretary shall act as Secretary of and shall keep the minutes of the meetings of the Board of Directors and of the Stockholders, have the custody of the seal of the Corporation and perform all of the other duties usual to that office.
 
 
SECTION 8.    
Assistant Treasurer and Assistant Secretary
. Any Assistant Treasurer or Assistant Secretary shall perform such duties as may be prescribed or assigned to him by the Board of Directors, the Chairman of the Board or the President. An Assistant Treasurer shall give such bond or bonds for the faithful performance of his duties with such surety or sureties as the Board of Directors from time to time may determine.
SECTION 9.    
Term of Office; Removal
. Each officer shall hold office for such term as may be prescribed by the Board and may be removed at any time by the Board with or without cause. The removal of an officer without cause shall be without prejudice to his contract rights, if any. The election or appointment of an officer shall not of itself create contract rights.
SECTION 10.   
Compensation
. The compensation of all officers of the Corporation shall be fixed by the Board of Directors.
ARTICLE V
                  
 
SHARE CERTIFICATES
SECTION 1.    
Form of Share Certificates
. The shares of the Corporation shall be represented by certificates, in such form as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe, signed by the Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board, the President, an Executive Vice President, or a Vice President, and by the Secretary, an Assistant Secretary, the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, and shall be sealed with the seal of the Corporation or a facsimile thereof. The signatures of the officers upon a certificate may be facsimiles if the certificate is countersigned by a transfer agent or registered by a registrar other than the Corporation or its employees. In case any such officer who has signed or whose facsimile signature
 
 
has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer before such certificate is by the Corporation with the same effect as if he were such officer at the date of issue.
SECTION 2.    
Lost Certificates
. In case of the loss, theft, mutilation or destruction of a stock certificate, a duplicate certificate will be issued by the Corporation upon notification thereof and receipt of such proper indemnity as shall be prescribed by the Board of Directors in its discretion.
SECTION 3.    
Transfer of Shares
. Transfer of shares of stock shall be made upon the books of the Corporation by the registered holder in person or by duly authorized attorney, upon surrender of the certificate or certificates for such shares properly endorsed.
SECTION 4.    
Registered Stockholders
. Except as otherwise provided by law, the Corporation shall be entitled to recognize the exclusive right of a person registered on its books as the owner of shares to receive dividends or other distributions and to vote as such owner, and to hold such person liable for calls and assessments, and shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or legal claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person.
ARTICLE VI
                 
 
INDEMNIFICATION
SECTION 1.    
Indemnification of Actions Other Than by or in the Right of the Corporation
. The Corporation (1) shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the Corporation) by reason of the fact that he is or was a director or an officer of the Corporation, and (2) except as otherwise required by Section 3 of this Article, may indemnify any person who was or is a party or threatened to be made a party to any threatened, pending or
 
 
completed action, suit or proceedings, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (other than an action by or in the right of the Corporation) by reason of the fact that he is or was an employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee, agent of or participant in another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, against expenses (including attorney's
fees), judgments, fines and amounts actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with such action, suit or proceeding if he acted in good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had no reasonable cause to believe his conduct was unlawful. The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of
nolo
contendere
or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that his conduct was unlawful.
SECTION 2.    
Indemnification of Actions by or in the Right of the Corporation
. The Corporation shall indemnify any person who was or is a party or is threatened to be a party to any threatened, pending or completed action or suit by or in the right of the Corporation to procure a judgment in its favor by reason of the fact that he is or was a Director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee, agent of or participant in another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection with the defense or settlement of such action or suit if he acted in
 
 
good faith and in a manner he reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the Corporation, and except that no indemnification shall be made in respect of any claim, issue or matter as to which such person shall have been adjudged to be liable to the Corporation unless and only to the extent that the Delaware Court of Chancery or the court in which such action or suit was brought shall determine upon application that, despite the adjudication of liability but in view of all the circumstances of the case, such person is fairly and reasonably entitled to indemnity for such expenses which the Delaware Court of Chancery or such other court shall deem proper.
SECTION 3.    
Indemnification Against Expenses
. To the extent that a person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any action, suit or proceeding referred to in Section 1 or Section 2 of this Article, or in defense of any claim, issue or matter therein, he shall be indemnified against expenses (including attorneys' fees) actually and reasonably incurred by him in connection therewith.
SECTION 4.    
Limitations on Indemnification
. Any indemnification under Section 1 or Section 2 of this Article (unless ordered by a court) shall be made by the Corporation only as authorized in the specific case upon a determination that indemnification of the director, officer, employee or agent is proper in the circumstances because he has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in said Sections 1 and 2. If, under applicable law, the entitlement to indemnification depends on whether the director, officer, employee or agent has met the appropriate standard of conduct, the burden of proof establishing that such person has not acted in accordance with such standard shall rest with the Corporation and such person shall be presumed to
 
 
have acted in accordance with such standard unless, based upon a preponderance of the evidence, it shall be determined by a court of competent jurisdiction that such person has not met such standard. In any event, and not as a condition or in limitation of the foregoing, indemnification hereunder shall be made immediately upon the determination that such person has met such standard (1) by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of directors who were not parties to such action, suit or proceeding, or (2) if such a quorum is not obtainable, or, even if obtainable, a quorum of disinterested directors so directs, by independent legal counsel in a written opinion, or (3) by the stockholders.
SECTION 5.    
Advancement of Expenses
. Expenses incurred by any person who may have a right of indemnification under this Article in defending a civil or criminal action, suit or proceeding shall be paid by the Corporation in advance of the final disposition of such action, suit or proceeding upon receipt of an undertaking by or on behalf of the director, officer, employee or agent to repay such amount if it shall ultimately be determined that he is
not
entitled to be indemnified by the Corporation pursuant to this Article.
SECTION 6.    
Article Not Exclusive of Other Rights
. The indemnification provided by this Article shall not be deemed exclusive of any other rights to which those seeking indemnification may be entitled under the Certificate of Incorporation, any By-law, agreement, vote of stockholders or disinterested directors or otherwise, both as to action in his official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding such office, and shall continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person.
 
 
SECTION 7.    
Liability Insurance
. The Corporation may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation, or is or was serving at the request of the Corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of or participant in another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him in any such capacity, or arising out of his status as such, whether or not the Corporation would have the power to indemnify him against such liability under the provisions of this Article, Section 145 of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware or otherwise.
SECTION 8.    
Severability
. The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Article shall not affect the validity or enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Article.
ARTICLE VII
               
 
MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS
SECTION 1.    
Corporate Seal
. The corporate seal shall have inscribed thereon the name of the Corporation and such other appropriate legend as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine.
SECTION 2.    
Fiscal Year
. The fiscal year of the Corporation shall be the twelve months ending December 31 or such other period as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors.
SECTION 3.    
Checks and Notes
. All checks and demands for money and notes or other instruments evidencing indebtedness or obligations of the Corporation shall be signed by such officer or officers or other person or persons as shall be thereunto authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors.
SECTION 4.    
Dividends
. Dividends upon the capital stock of the Corporation, subject to the provisions of the certificate of incorporation, if any, and requirements of law may be declared from time to time by the board of directors of the Corporation at any regular or special meeting, pursuant to law. Dividends may be paid in cash, in property, or in shares of the capital stock of the Corporation or its subsidiaries, subject to the provisions of the certificate of incorporation.
ARTICLE VIII
             
 
AMENDMENTS
SECTION 1.    
Power to Amend
. By-laws of the Corporation may be adopted, amended or repealed by the Board of Directors, and also shall be subject to amendment or repeal by the stockholders entitled to vote thereon.
 
 
 


