FILE:MNST/MNST-8K-20070807181220.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section
 
13 or 15(d)
 
of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
August 7, 2007
 
Hansen Natural Corporation
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation)
 
1010 Railroad Street
Corona, California 92882
(Address of principal executive offices and zip code)
(951) 739 - 6200
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
On August 7, 2007, Hansen Natural Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that it received notification from the Los Angeles Regional Office of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") that the Commission's staff has completed its informal inquiry into the Company's historical stock option granting practices and does not intend to recommend any enforcement action against the Company by the Commission. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Exhibit 99.1 Press Release dated August 7, 2007.
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Hansen Natural Corporation
 
 
-------------------------------
Hilton H. Schlosberg
Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors,
President and Chief Financial Officer
 
 

 
Hilton H. Schlosberg
 
 
SEC COMPLETES INVESTIGATION OF HANSEN NATURAL
 
Corona, CA
 August 7, 2007 Hansen Natural Corporation (NASDAQ:HANS) today announced that it has been advised that the informal inquiry relating to the Company's historical stock option granting practices, which was being conducted by the staff of the Los Angeles Regional Office of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission"), has been completed. In a letter from the Los Angeles Regional Office, the Company was further advised that the Commission staff does not intend to recommend any enforcement action against the Company by the Commission. The letter also states that this information was provided under the guidelines in the final paragraph of Securities Act Release No. 5310.
 
Hansen Natural Corporation
Based in Corona, California, Hansen Natural Corporation markets and distributes Hansen's Natural Sodas, Signature Sodas, fruit juice Smoothies, Energy drinks, Energade energy sports drinks, E20 Energy Water, multi-vitamin juice drinks in aseptic packaging, Junior Juice juice, iced teas, apple juice and juice blends, Blue Sky brand beverages, Monster Energy brand energy drinks, Java Monster brand non carbonated dairy based coffee drinks, Lost Energy brand energy drinks, Joker Mad Energy, Unbound Energy and Ace Energy brand energy drinks, Rumba brand energy juice, and Fizzit brand powdered drink mixes. For more information visit www.hansens.com and www.monsterenergy.com.
 
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements made in this announcement may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Management cautions that these statements are qualified by their terms or important factors, many of which are outside of the control of the Company, that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from the statements made herein, including, but not limited to, the following: changes in consumer preferences; changes in demand that are weather related, particularly in areas outside of California; competitive pricing and/or marketing
 
pressures; activities and strategies of competitors; changes in the price and/or availability of raw materials for the Company's products; the availability of production and/or suitable facilities; the marketing efforts of the distributors of the Company's products, most of which distribute products that are competitive with the products of the Company; the introduction of new products, as well as unilateral decisions that may be made by grocery and/or convenience chain stores, specialty chain stores, club stores and other customers to discontinue carrying all or any of the Company's products that they are carrying at any time; and other risks detailed from time to time in the Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements.
 
 
 


