FILE:MNST/MNST-8K-20070703134748.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section
 
13 or 15(d)
 
of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
July 3, 2007
 
Hansen Natural Corporation
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation)
 
1010 Railroad Street
Corona, California 92882
(Address of principal executive offices and zip code)
(951) 739 - 6200
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Item 8.01 Other Events.
 
On July 3, 2007, Hansen Natural Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that its shares will begin trading on the Nasdaq Global Select Market at the opening of business Thursday, July 5, 2007, under the same symbol, "HANS".  Hansen Natural's common stock had been listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market prior to the upgrade.
 
 
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
The following exhibit is furnished herewith:
 
Exhibit 99.1 - Press release dated July 3, 2007.
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Hansen Natural Corporation
 
 
-------------------------------
Hilton H. Schlosberg
Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors,
President and Chief Financial Officer
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
Hilton H. Schlosberg
 
 
 
Hansen Natural Upgraded to NASDAQ Global Select Market,
Trading to Begin July 5
 
Corona, CA
 July 3, 2007Hansen Natural Corporation (NASDAQ:HANS) today announced that its shares will begin trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market at the opening of business Thursday, July 5, 2007, under the same symbol, HANS.
"We are pleased to have met the financial and liquidity requirements that enable our shares to be traded alongside NASDAQ's top tier companies," said Rodney Sacks, chairman and chief executive officer. "The change reflects our company's continued growth over the years and enhanced market value."
Hansen Natural's common stock had been listed on the NASDAQ Capital Market prior to the upgrade.
For additional information about the NASDAQ Global Select Market, please go to: http://www.nasdaq.com/GlobalSelect.
Hansen Natural Corporation
Based in Corona, California, Hansen Natural Corporation markets and distributes Hansen's Natural Sodas, Signature Sodas, fruit juice Smoothies, Energy drinks, Energade energy sports drinks, E20 Energy Water, multi-vitamin juice drinks in aseptic packaging, Junior Juice juice, iced teas, lemonades and juice cocktails, apple juice and juice blends, Blue Sky brand beverages, Monster Energy brand energy drinks, Java Monster brand coffee energy drinks, Lost Energy brand energy drinks, Joker Mad Energy, Unbound Energy and Ace Energy brand energy drinks, Rumba brand energy juice, and Fizzit brand powdered drink mixes. For more information visit www.hansens.com and www.monsterenergy.com.
# # #
 
 


