FILE:MNST/MNST-8K-20070920170002.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
 
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section
 
13 or 15(d)
 
of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
September 18, 2007
 
Hansen Natural Corporation
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation)
 
550 Monica Circle Suite 201
Corona, California 92880
(Address of principal executive offices and zip code)
(951) 739 - 6200
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Item 5.03. Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
 
The shares of common stock of Hansen Natural Corporation (the "Company") are listed on NASDAQ. On August 8, 2006, the Securities and Exchange Commission approved amendments to NASDAQ Rule 4350(l), which requires securities listed on NASDAQ to be eligible for a Direct Registration Program operated by a clearing agency registered under Section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, such as the one offered by The Depositary Trust Corporation. A Direct Registration Program permits an investor's ownership to be recorded and maintained on the books of the issuer or the transfer agent without the issuance of a physical stock certificate. Investors receive annual statements from the issuer indicating their holdings. The rule change does not require issuers to actually participate in a Direct Registration Program or to eliminate physical stock certificates. However, the change requires that the listed securities are eligible for such a program. The Company has until December 31, 2007 to amend its Bylaws to comply with the rule change. Therefore, on September 18, 2007, the Board of Directors of the Company, pursuant to Article V of the Certificate of Incorporation, amended Article V, Section 1 and Section 3 of the Company's Bylaws, in their entirety to permit a Direct Registration Program.
 
A copy of the amendment is attached hereto as Exhibit 3.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
Exhibit 3.1 Amended Article V, Sections 1 and 3 to the Bylaws of Hansen Natural Corporation
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Hansen Natural Corporation
 
 
-------------------------------
Hilton H. Schlosberg
Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors,
President and Chief Financial Officer
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
TEXT OF AMENDMENT TO THE BYLAWS
 
OF HANSEN NATURAL CORPORATION
As of September 18, 2007, Article V, Sections 1 and 3 of the Bylaws of Hansen Natural Corporation were amended in their entirety and read as follows:
Article V
SHARE CERTIFICATES
 
SECTION 1.
 
          
(a)
Form of Share Certificates
. The shares of the Corporation may be represented by certificates, in such form as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe, signed by the Chairman of the Board, a Vice Chairman of the Board, the President, an Executive Vice President, or a Vice President, and by the Secretary, an Assistant Secretary, the Treasurer or an Assistant Treasurer, and shall be sealed with the seal of the Corporation or a facsimile thereof. The signatures of the officers upon a certificate may be facsimiles if the certificate is countersigned by a transfer agent or registered by a registrar other than the Corporation or its employees. In case any such officer who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the Corporation with the same effect as if he were such officer at the date of issue.
 
(b) . Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Corporation may issue shares of stock in the form of uncertificated shares. Such uncertificated shares of stock shall be credited to a book entry account maintained by the Corporation (or its designee) on behalf of the stockholder.
Book-entry system for share ownership
 
(c) . Notwithstanding the foregoing, the shares of stock of the Corporation shall be eligible for a Direct Registration Program operated by a clearing agency registered under Section 17A of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
Direct Registration Program
 
SECTION 3.
TRANSFER OF SHARES
. The shares of stock of the Corporation shall be transferable only upon its books by the holders thereof in person or by their duly authorized attorneys or legal representatives, and upon such transfer the old certificates, if such shares are represented by certificates, shall be surrendered to the Corporation by the delivery thereof to the person in charge of the stock and transfer books and ledgers, or to such other person as the directors may designate, by whom they shall be cancelled, and new certificates shall thereupon be issued, unless such shares have become uncertificated. A record shall be made of each transfer and whenever a transfer shall be made for collateral security, and not absolutely, it shall be so expressed in the entry of the transfer.
 


