FILE:MNST/MNST-8K-20090730170535.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section
 
13 or 15(d)
 
of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):
July 27, 2009
Hansen Natural Corporation
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware
(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation)
 
550 Monica Circle Suite 201
Corona, California 92880
(Address of principal executive offices and zip code)
(951) 739 - 6200
(Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
N/A
(Former name or former address, if changed since last report)
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Item 5.02 Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
Hansen Natural Corporation (the "Company") announced the appointment of Nick R. Gagliardi, age 52, as Chief Operating Officer of Monster Beverage Company, a division of Hansen Beverage Company ("HBC"), a subsidiary of the Company, effective July 27, 2009.
 
Prior to starting with HBC, Mr. Gagliardi served as President of Liquid Investments, a wholesale beverage distribution holding company based in San Diego, which he joined in 2002. From April 1998 to January 2002, Mr. Gagliardi held various management positions, including Vice President and General Manager, of Labatt USA, which later became a unit of Anheuser-Busch InBev. From 1982 to 1998, Gagliardi served in various capacities at Colgate-Palmolive Co., including Vice President of the Canadian division.
 
In connection with his appointment as Chief Operating Officer, Mr. Gagliardi and HBC executed a written offer of employment on June 30, 2009. The written offer of employment specifies that Mr. Gagliardi's annual base salary will be $255,000. Mr. Gagliardi is eligible to receive a discretionary annual bonus of up to 50% of his base salary, plus dislocation allowance. Mr. Gagliardi's employment is "at will" and may be terminated by either Mr. Gagliardi or HBC at any time. Mr. Gagliardi will receive an option to purchase 60,000 shares of the Company's common stock at the closing price of Company's common stock on August 3, 2009. The option is scheduled to vest, subject to Mr. Gagliardi's continued employment, in equal installments on each of the first five anniversaries of the grant date, and shall expire on the tenth anniversary of the grant date.
 
A copy of the press release announcing the appointment of Mr. Gagliardi is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
.
 
(d) Exhibits
 
The following exhibit is furnished herewith:
 
 
 
SIGNATURES
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
Hansen Natural Corporation
 
 
-------------------------------
Hilton H. Schlosberg
Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors,
President, Chief Operating Officer, Chief Financial Officer and Secretary
 
 
 

 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
Hilton H. Schlosberg
 
 
 
HANSEN NATURAL APPOINTS NICK GAGLIARDI CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER OF MONSTER BEVERAGE COMPANY
 
Corona, CA  July 30, 2009 
Hansen Natural Corporation (NASDAQ:HANS) today announced the appointment of Nick R. Gagliardi as Chief Operating Officer of Monster Beverage Company, a division of Hansen Beverage Company (the "Company"). Gagliardi will oversee the Monster business and report directly to Mark Hall, President of Monster Beverage Company.
Gagliardi, 52, most recently served as President of Liquid Investments, a wholesale beverage distribution holding company based in San Diego. Previously he held various management positions, including Vice President and General Manager, of Labatt USA which later became a unit of Anheuser-Busch InBev. From 1982-1998, Gagliardi served in various capacities at Colgate-Palmolive Company, including Vice President of the Canadian division.
Gagliardi earned his bachelor of arts degree in hotel and restaurant administration from Washington State University. He completed the food industry management program at University of Southern California, Los Angeles.
"Nick brings to our Company more than 25 years of sales, distribution and business development experience in beverage and consumer products," said Rodney C. Sacks, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Hansen Natural Corporation. "We are pleased to welcome Nick to our Monster team and look forward to his contributions as our Company continues to grow worldwide."
 
Hansen Natural Corporation
Based in Corona, California, Hansen Natural Corporation markets and distributes Hansen's natural sodas, sparkling beverages, apple juice and juice blends, fruit juice smoothies, multi-vitamin juice drinks in aseptic packaging, iced teas, energy drinks, Junior Juice juices and water beverages, Blue Sky brand beverages, Monster Energy brand energy drinks, Nitrous Monster Energy brand energy drinks, Monster Hitman energy shooters, Java Monster brand non-carbonated coffee energy drinks, X-Presso Monster brand non-carbonated espresso energy drinks, Lost Energy brand energy drinks, Rumba, Samba and Tango brand energy juices and Vidration brand vitamin enhanced waters. For more information visit
www.hansens.com
and
www.monsterenergy.com
.
 
# # #
 
 


