FILE:MNST/MNST-8K-20111012172201.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
On October 12, 2011, Hansen Natural Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that the Company's Board of Directors has authorized a new repurchase program for the repurchase of up to $250 million of the Company's outstanding common stock.  As of October 5, 2011, there was no availability remaining under the previous $200 million repurchase program authorized in March 2010.
A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is filed herewith:
Exhibit 99.1 Press Release dated October 12, 2011.
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Hansen Natural Corporation
Date:  October 12, 2011                                        /s/ Hilton H. Schlosberg
-------------------------------
Hilton H. Schlosberg
Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors,
President and Chief Financial Officer

CONTACTS:                                Rodney C. Sacks
   
   
   
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
(951) 739-6200
      Hilton H. Schlosberg
 
   
   
Vice Chairman
(951) 739-6200
Roger S. Pondel / Judy Lin Sfetcu
PondelWilkinson Inc.
(310) 279-5980
 October 12, 2011  Hansen Natural Corporation (NASDAQ:HANS) today announced that its Board of Directors has authorized a new share repurchase program for the repurchase of up to $250million of the Company's outstanding common stock. As of October 5, 2011, there was no availability remaining under the $200 million repurchase program previously authorized in March 2010.
Corona, CA
 
Hansen Natural Corporation
Based in Corona, California, Hansen Natural Corporation markets and distributes Hansens natural sodas, apple juice and juice blends, fruit juice smoothies, multi-vitamin juices, iced teas, energy drinks, Junior Juice beverages, Blue Sky beverages, Monster Energy energy drinks, Monster Energy Extra Strength Nitrous Technology energy drinks, Java Monster non-carbonated coffee + energy drinks, X-Presso Monster non-carbonated espresso energy drinks, Monster Rehab non-carbonated rehydration energy drinks, Peace Tea iced teas, Worx Energy energy shots, Vidration brand vitamin enhanced waters, Admiral iced teas and Huberts Lemonades.  For more information visit www.hansens.com and www.monsterenergy.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements made in this announcement may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Management cautions that these statements are based on managements current knowledge and expectations and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of the control of the Company, that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from the statements made herein. For a more detailed discussion of the risks that could affect our operating results, see the Companys reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Companys actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements, including with respect to the repurchase program. The manner, price, number and timing of share repurchases will be subject to a variety of factors, including market conditions and applicable U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission rules. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


