FILE:MNST/MNST-8K-20110804162558.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0-18761                                       39-1679918
(Commission File Number)                  (IRS Employer Identification No.)
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On August 4, 2011, Hansen Natural Corporation (Hansen) issued a press release relating to its financial results for the second quarter ended June 30, 2011, a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto. The press release did not include certain financial statements, related footnotes and certain other financial information that will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as part of Hansens Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
 
On August 4, 2011, Hansen will conduct a conference call at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Standard Time. The call will be open to interested investors through a live audio web broadcast via the internet at www.hansens.com.  For those who are not able to listen to the live broadcast, the call will be archived for approximately one year on the website.
 
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished herewith:
Exhibit 99.1 Press Release dated August 4, 2011.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Hansen Natural Corporation
Date:  August 4, 2011                                          /s/ Hilton H. Schlosberg
-------------------------------
Hilton H. Schlosberg
Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors,
President and Chief Financial Officer

CONTACTS:                            Rodney C. Sacks
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
(951) 739-6200
Hilton H. Schlosberg
Vice Chairman
(951) 739-6200
Roger S. Pondel / Judy Lin Sfetcu
Pondel Wilkinson Inc.
(310) 279-5980
 
 
 
 
 
 
HANSEN NATURAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME AND OTHER INFORMATION
FOR THE THREE- AND SIX-MONTHS ENDED JUNE 30, 2011 AND 2010
                                                                                                                                      
(In Thousands, Except Per Share Amounts) (Unaudited)
*Gross sales, although used internally by management as an indicator of operating performance, should not be considered as an alternative to net sales, which is determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP), and should not be used alone as an indicator of operating performance in place of net sales.  Additionally, gross sales may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies as gross sales has been defined by our internal reporting requirements. However, gross sales are used by management to monitor operating performance including sales performance of particular products, salesperson performance, product growth or declines and our overall performance. The use of gross sales allows evaluation of sales performance before the effect of any promotional items, which can mask certain performance issues. Management believes the presentation of gross sales allows a more comprehensive presentation of our operating performance. Gross sales may not be realized in the form of cash receipts as promotional payments and allowances may be deducted from payments received from customers.
** Although the expenditures described in this line item are determined in accordance with GAAP and meet GAAP requirements, the disclosure thereof does not conform with GAAP presentation requirements. Additionally, the presentation of promotional and other allowances may not be comparable to similar items presented by other companies. The presentation of promotional and other allowances facilitates an evaluation of the impact thereof on the determination of net sales and illustrates the spending levels incurred to secure such sales. Promotional and other allowances constitute a material portion of our marketing activities.
 
 
 
HANSEN NATURAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
AS OF JUNE 30, 2011 AND DECEMBER 31, 2010
(In Thousands, Except Par Value) (Unaudited)
 
 


