FILE:MNST/MNST-8K-20110505162125.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On May 5, 2011, Hansen Natural Corporation (Hansen) issued a press release relating to its financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2011, a copy of which is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto. The press release did not include certain financial statements, related footnotes and certain other financial information that will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission as part of Hansens Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q.
 
On May 5, 2011, Hansen will conduct a conference call at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Standard Time. The call will be open to interested investors through a live audio web broadcast via the internet at www.hansens.com and www.opencompany.info.  For those who are not able to listen to the live broadcast, the call will be archived for approximately one year on both websites.
 
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibit is furnished herewith:
Exhibit 99.1 Press Release dated May 5, 2011.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Hansen Natural Corporation
Date:  May 5, 2011                                               /s/ Hilton H. Schlosberg
-------------------------------
Hilton H. Schlosberg
Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors,
President and Chief Financial Officer

 CONTACTS:                                
   
      
Rodney C. Sacks
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
(951) 739-6200
 
 
   
   
  
   
   
   
  
 Hilton H. Schlosberg
    
    
   
Vice Chairman
(951) 739-6200
Roger S. Pondel / Judy Lin Sfetcu
PondelWilkinson Inc.
(310) 279-5980
 
 May 5, 2011  Hansen Natural Corporation (NASDAQ:HANS) today reported financial results for the first quarter ended March 31, 2011.
 Corona, CA
   
   
 Gross sales for the 2011 first quarter increased 50.6 percent to $407.6 million from $270.6 million in the same period last year.  Net sales for the first quarter of 2011 increased 49.7 percent to $356.4 million from $238.1 million in the same period last year.  Both gross and net sales for the comparative 2010 first quarter were impacted by advance purchases made by customers in the 2009 fourth quarter, following the Companys announcement of a new marketing contribution program for Monster Energy distributors, as well as to avoid product supply interruptions due to the Companys planned transition to the SAP enterprise resource planning system in January 2010.  The Company previously estimated that approximately 4 percent to 6 percent of the fiscal 2009 fourth quarter gross sales were attributable to such advance purchases.
   
 Gross profit as a percentage of net sales was 52.1 percent for the 2011 first quarter, compared with 52.3 percent for the comparable 2010 first quarter.
   
 Operating expenses for the 2011 first quarter increased to $97.1 million from $73.8 million in the same quarter last year, but decreased as a percentage of net sales to 27.2 percent from 31.0 percent in the comparable quarter last year.
   
 
 Distribution costs as a percentage of net sales were 4.1 percent for the 2011 first quarter, compared with 4.9 percent in the same quarter last year.
   
 Selling expenses as a percentage of net sales increased in the 2011 first quarter to 13.7 percent, compared with 13.0 percent in the same quarter last year.
   
 General and administrative expenses for the 2011 first quarter were $33.6 million, compared with $31.2 million Stock-based compensation (a non-cash item) was $3.8 million in the first quarter of 2011, compared with $5.0 million in the corresponding quarter last year.
   
for the corresponding quarter last year.  
General and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales, decreased in the 2011 first quarter to 9.4 percent from 13.1 percent in the same quarter a year ago.
 
 Operating income for the 2011 first quarter increased to $88.5 million from $50.8 million in the 2010 comparable quarter.
   
 The effective tax rate for the 2011 first quarter was 38.0 percent, compared with 37.1 percent in the same quarter last year.
   
 Net income for the 2011 first quarter rose to $55.0 million, or $0.59 per diluted share, from $32.6 million, or $0.35 per diluted share, in the same quarter last year.
   
 Net sales for the Companys DSD segment increased 54.1 percent to $334.7 million for the 2011 first quarter$217.2 million for the same quarter last year.
   
 from 
 Gross sales to customers outside the United States rose to $72.8 million in the 2011 first quarter, compared with $37.8 million in the corresponding quarter in 2010.
   
 Rodney C. Sacks, chairman and chief executive officer, attributed the record revenues to continuing strong demand for Monster Energy drinks against a background of solid growth in the energy drink category. Monster Energy drinks again achieved market share gains in the United States, with sales increasing in excess of category growth. Sacks reported that the Company continued to make good progress on the international front during the quarter.  During the first quarter, we launched our new non-carbonated Monster Rehab energy drink with electrolytes and additional supplements, Sacks added.
   
 During the 2011 first quarter, the Company repurchased 708,140 of its shares at an average price of $54.88 per share.
   
Investor Conference Call
 The Company will host an investor conference call today, May 5, 2011, at 2:00 p.m. Pacific Time (5:00 p.m. Eastern Time).  The conference call will be open to all interested investors through a live audio Web broadcast via the internet at .  For those who are not able to listen to the live broadcast, the call will be archived for approximately one year on the Web site.
   
www.hansens.com
Hansen Natural Corporation
 Based in Corona, California, Hansen Natural Corporation markets and distributes Hansens natural sodas, apple juice and juice blends, fruit juice smoothies, multi-vitamin juices, iced teas, energy drinks, Junior Juice  beverages, Blue Sky  beverages, Monster Energy  energy drinks, Monster Energy Extra Strength Nitrous Technology energy drinks, Java Monster  non-carbonated coffee + energy drinks, X-Presso Monster  non-carbonated espresso energy drinks, Monster Rehab non-carbonated rehydration energy drinks, Peace Tea iced teas, Worx Energy energy shots, Vidration brand vitamin enhanced waters, Admiral iced teas and Huberts Lemonades.  For more information visit and .
   
www.hansens.com
www.monsterenergy.com
 
 
Note Regarding Use of Non-GAAP Measures
 Gross sales, although used internally by management as an indicator of operating performance, should not be considered as an alternative to net sales, which is determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP), and should not be used alone as an indicator of operating performance in place of net sales.  Additionally, gross sales may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies as gross sales has been defined by our internal reporting requirements.  However, gross sales are used by management to monitor operating performance including sales performance of particular products, salesperson performance, product growth or declines and our overall performance. The use of gross sales allows evaluation of sales performance before the effect of any promotional items, which can mask certain performance issues. Management believes the presentation of gross sales allows a more comprehensive presentation of our operating performance.  Gross sales may not be realized in the form of cash receipts as promotional payments and allowances may be deducted from payments received from customers.
   
 
 
Caution Concerning Forward-Looking Statements
 Certain statements made in this announcement may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, regarding the expectations of management with respect to our future operating results and other future events including revenues and profitability.  Management cautions that these statements are based on managements current knowledge and expectations and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of the control of the Company, that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from the statements made herein.  Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: the current uncertainty and volatility in the national and global economy; changes in consumer preferences; changes in demand due to both domestic and international economic conditions; activities and strategies of competitors, including the introduction of new products and competitive pricing and/or marketing of similar products; actual performance of the parties under the new distribution agreements; potential disruptions arising out of the transition of certain territories to new distributors; changes in sales levels by existing distributors; unanticipated costs incurred in connection with the termination of existing distribution agreements or the transition to new distributors; changes in the price and/or availability of raw materials; other supply issues, including the availability of products and/or suitable production facilities; product distribution and placement decisions by retailers; changes in governmental regulation; the imposition of excise and/or other taxes on our products; criticism of energy drinks and/or the energy drink market generally; the impact of proposals to limit or restrict the sale of energy drinks to minors and/or persons below a specified age and/or restrict the venues in which energy drinks can be sold; political, legislative or other governmental actions or events in one or more regions in which we operate.  For a more detailed discussion of these and other risks that could affect our operating results, see the Companys reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Companys actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.  The Company no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
   
assumes
 
 
 
 
HANSEN NATURAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME AND OTHER INFORMATION
FOR THE THREE-MONTHS ENDED MARCH 31, 2011 AND 2010
                                                                                                                                    
(In Thousands, Except Per Share Amounts) (Unaudited)
*Gross sales, although used internally by management as an indicator of operating performance, should not be considered as an alternative to net sales, which is determined in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP), and should not be used alone as an indicator of operating performance in place of net sales.  Additionally, gross sales may not be comparable to similarly titled measures used by other companies as gross sales has been defined by our internal reporting requirements. However, gross sales are used by management to monitor operating performance including sales performance of particular products, salesperson performance, product growth or declines and our overall performance. The use of gross sales allows evaluation of sales performance before the effect of any promotional items, which can mask certain performance issues. Management believes the presentation of gross sales allows a more comprehensive presentation of our operating performance. Gross sales may not be realized in the form of cash receipts as promotional payments and allowances may be deducted from payments received from customers.
** Although the expenditures described in this line item are determined in accordance with GAAP and meet GAAP requirements, the disclosure thereof does not conform with GAAP presentation requirements. Additionally, the presentation of promotional and other allowances may not be comparable to similar items presented by other companies. The presentation of promotional and other allowances facilitates an evaluation of the impact thereof on the determination of net sales and illustrates the spending levels incurred to secure such sales. Promotional and other allowances constitute a material portion of our marketing activities.
 
 
HANSEN NATURAL CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
AS OF MARCH 31, 2011 AND DECEMBER 31, 2010
(In Thousands, Except Par Value) (Unaudited)
 


