FILE:MNST/MNST-8K-20110524145948.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
0-18761                                                      39-1679918
(Commission File Number)                    (IRS Employer Identification No.)
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02      Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
(e)           On May 19, 2011 at the 2011 Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the 2011 Annual Meeting) of Hansen Natural Corporation (the Company), the stockholders of the Company approved and adopted the Hansen Natural Corporation 2011 Omnibus Incentive Plan (the 2011 Incentive Plan). The 2011 Incentive Plan was adopted by the Board of Directors of the Company (the Board) on February 25, 2011, subject to stockholder approval at the 2011 Annual Meeting.   The 2011 Incentive Plan authorizes the issuance of no more than 7,250,000  shares of the Companys common stock.  The 2011 Incentive Plan provides for the granting of incentive stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock, restricted stock units, performance awards and other share-based awards to our employees and consultants.
Further descriptions of the 2011 Incentive Plan are set forth in the Companys definitive proxy statement which was filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC) on April 8, 2011 (the Proxy Statement) under the heading Proposal 3 - Approval of Hansen Natural Corporation 2011 Omnibus Incentive Plan, in the Companys definitive additional proxy materials which were filed with the SEC on May 6, 2011 (the Additional Proxy Materials) and in the Companys Current Report on Form 8-K, which was filed with the SEC on May 6, 2011 (the 8-K), each of which is incorporated herein by reference.  The descriptions of the 2011 Incentive Plan set forth in the Proxy Statement, the Additional Proxy Materials and the 8-K and contained herein are qualified in their entirety by reference to the complete terms and conditions of the 2011 Incentive Plan, which is filed herewith as Exhibit 10.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 5.07 Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
The 2011 Annual Meeting was held on May 19, 2011, at which the following matters were submitted to a vote of the stockholders. 
  To elect seven directors of the Company to serve until the 2012 annual meeting of stockholders.
Proposal No. 1.
 
 In accordance with the results below, the following individuals were re-elected as directors of the Company and received the number of votes set opposite their respective names.
   
To ratify the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP to serve as the independent registered public accounting firm of the Company for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2011.
Proposal No. 2.  
 
 In accordance with the results below, the appointment of Deloitte & Touche LLP was ratified and approved.
   
 
To approve the Hansen Natural Corporation 2011 Omnibus Incentive Plan.
Proposal No. 3. 
 
 In accordance with the results below, the 2011 Incentive Plan was approved.
   
 
To approve, on a non-binding, advisory basis, the compensation of the Companys named executive officers.
Proposal No 4.  
 
 In accordance with the results below, the compensation of the Companys named executive officers was approved on a non-binding, advisory basis.
   
 
 
 
 
To approve, on a non-binding, advisory basis, the frequency with which stockholders will approve the compensation of the Companys named executive officers.
Proposal No 5. 
 
     In accordance with the results below, the Board of the Company determined that it will include a non-binding, advisory vote on the compensation of the Companys executive officers in its proxy materials every year until the next advisory vote on the frequency of stockholder votes on executive compensation.
   
 
To consider a stockholder proposal regarding the amendment of the Companys organizational documents to require majority voting for the election of directors.
Proposal No 6. 
   
In accordance with the results below, the stockholder proposal regarding the amendment of the Companys organizational documents to require majority voting for the election of directors was not approved.
   
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d)           Exhibits.
10.1         Hansen Natural Corporation 2011 Omnibus Incentive Plan, effective May 19, 2011.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Hansen Natural Corporation
Date:  May 24, 2011                                            /s/ Hilton H. Schlosberg
-------------------------------
Hilton H. Schlosberg
Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors,
President and Chief Financial Officer

 
 
Hansen Natural Corporation (the Company), a Delaware corporation, hereby establishes and adopts the following Hansen Natural Corporation 2011 Omnibus Incentive Plan (the Plan).
 
1.           PURPOSE OF THE PLAN
 
The purpose of the Plan is to assist the Company and its Subsidiaries in attracting and retaining selected individuals to serve as employees and consultants of the Company and its Subsidiaries who are expected to contribute to the Company's success and to achieve long-term objectives which will inure to the benefit of all stockholders of the Company through the additional incentives inherent in the Awards hereunder.
 
2.           DEFINITIONS
 
            means, with respect to the Company, any entity directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by, or under common control with, the Company or any other entity designated by the Board in which the Company or an Affiliate has an interest.
2.1.
Affiliate
 
            shall mean any Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock Award, Restricted Stock Unit Award, Other Share-Based Award or Performance Award granted pursuant to the provisions of the Plan.
2.2.
Award
 
            shall mean any agreement, contract or other instrument or document evidencing any Award hereunder, whether in writing or through an electronic medium.
2.3.
Award Agreement
 
            shall mean the board of directors of the Company.
2.4.
Board
 
            shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time.
2.5.
Code
 
            shall mean the Compensation Committee of the Board or a subcommittee thereof formed by the Compensation Committee to act as the Committee hereunder.  The Committee shall consist of no fewer than two Directors, each of whom is (i) a Non-Employee Director within the meaning of Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act, (ii) an outside director within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, and (iii) an independent director to the extent required by the rules and regulations of the New York Stock Exchange (or such other principal securities exchange on which the Shares are traded), to the extent required by such rules.
2.6.
Committee
 
            shall mean an employee of the Company or its subsidiaries who is a covered employee within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code to the extent required by such rules.
2.7.
Covered Employee
 
            shall mean a member of the Board who is not an employee of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries.
2.8.
Director
 
            shall have the meaning set forth in Section 12.5.
2.9.
Dividend Equivalents
 
           shall mean any employee of the Company or any Subsidiary and any prospective employee conditioned upon, and effective not earlier than, such person becoming an employee of the Company or any Subsidiary. Solely for purposes of the Plan, an Employee shall also mean any consultant who is a natural person and who provides services to the Company or any Subsidiary, so long as such person (i) renders bona fide services that are not in connection with the offer and sale of the Company's securities in a capital-raising transaction and (ii) does not directly or indirectly promote or maintain a market for the Company's securities.
2.10.
Employee
 
            shall mean the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
2.11.
Exchange Act
 
            shall mean, with respect to any property other than Shares, the market value of such property determined by such methods or procedures as shall be established from time to time by the Committee. The Fair Market Value of Shares as of any date shall be the per Share closing price of the Shares as reported on NASDAQ on that date (or if there were no reported prices on such date, on the last preceding date on which the prices were reported) or, if the Company is not then listed on NASDAQ, on such other principal securities exchange on which the Shares are traded, and if the Company is not listed on the NASDAQ or any other securities exchange, the Fair Market Value of Shares shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.
2.12.
Fair Market Value
 
            shall mean an Award, other than an Award for Options or Stock Appreciation Rights, that is settled in Shares.
2.13.
Full Value Award
 
            shall have the meaning set forth in Section 10.5.
2.14.
Limitations
 
            shall mean any right granted to a Participant under the Plan allowing such Participant to purchase Shares at such price or prices and during such period or periods as the Committee shall determine.
2.15.
Option
 
            shall have the meaning set forth in Section 8.1.
2.16.
Other Share-Based Award
 
            shall mean an Employee who is selected by the Committee to receive an Award under the Plan.
2.17.
Participant
 
            shall have the meaning set forth in Section 13.1.
2.18.
Payee
 
            shall mean any Award of Performance Cash or Performance Shares granted pursuant to Article 9.
2.19.
Performance Award
 
            shall mean any cash incentives granted pursuant to Article 9 which will be paid to the Participant upon the achievement of such performance goals as the Committee shall establish.
2.20.
Performance Cash
 
            shall mean the period established by the Committee of not less than 6 months during which any performance goals specified by the Committee with respect to such Award are to be measured.
2.21.
Performance Period
 
            shall mean any grant pursuant to Article 9 of a unit valued by reference to a designated number of Shares, which value will be paid to the Participant upon achievement of such performance goals as the Committee shall establish.
2.22.
Performance Share
 
            means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, estate, trust, unincorporated association, any federal, state, county or municipal government or any bureau, department or agency thereof and any fiduciary acting in such capacity on behalf of any of the foregoing.
2.23.
Person
 
            shall have the meaning set forth in Section 12.3.
2.24.
Permitted Assignee
 
            shall mean any Share issued with the restriction that the holder may not sell, transfer, pledge or assign such Share and with such other restrictions as the Committee, in its sole discretion, may impose (including any restriction on the right to vote such Share and the right to receive any dividends), which restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such time or times, in installments or otherwise, as the Committee may deem appropriate.
2.25.
Restricted Stock
 
            shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.1.
2.26.
Restricted Stock Award
 
            means an Award that is valued by reference to a Share, which value may be paid to the Participant by delivery of such property as the Committee shall determine, including without limitation, cash or Shares, or any combination thereof, and that has such restrictions as the Committee, in its sole discretion, may impose, including without limitation, any restriction on the right to retain such Awards, to sell, transfer, pledge or assign such Awards, and/or to receive any cash Dividend Equivalents with respect to such Awards, which restrictions may lapse separately or in combination at such time or times, in installments or otherwise, as the Committee may deem appropriate.
2.27.
Restricted Stock Unit
 
            shall have the meaning set forth in Section 7.1
2.28.
Restricted Stock Unit Award
 
            shall mean the shares of the common stock of the Company.
2.29.
Shares
 
            shall mean the right granted to a Participant pursuant to Article 6.
2.30.
Stock Appreciation Right
 
            shall mean any corporation (other than the Company) in an unbroken chain of corporations beginning with the Company if, at the relevant time each of the corporations other than the last corporation in the unbroken chain owns stock possessing 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other corporations in the chain.
2.31.
Subsidiary
 
            shall mean Awards granted or Shares issued by the Company in assumption of, or in substitution or exchange for, awards previously granted, or the right or obligation to make future awards, in each case by a company acquired by the Company or any Subsidiary or with which the Company or any Subsidiary combines.
2.32.
Substitute Awards
 
3.           SHARES SUBJECT TO THE PLAN
 
           . (a) Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 12.2, a total of 7,250,000 Shares shall be authorized for issuance under the Plan; provided, that the Shares authorized under the Plan shall be reduced by 2.16 for each Share granted or issued with respect to a Full Value Award.
3.1.
Number of Shares
 
(b)           Shares covered by an Award shall only be counted as used to the extent they are actually issued.  Any Shares related to Awards which terminate by expiration, forfeiture, cancellation, or otherwise without the issuance of such Shares, are settled in cash in lieu of Shares, or are exchanged with the Committees permission, prior to the issuance of Shares, for Awards not involving Shares, shall be available again for grant under this Plan; provided, that with respect to each Share related to a Full Value Award that is forfeited, expired or cancelled, the number of Shares again available for issuance under the Plan shall increase by 2.16.  However, the full number of Stock Appreciation Rights granted that are to be settled by the issuance of Shares shall be counted against the number of Shares available for award under the Plan, regardless of the number of Shares actually issued upon settlement of such Stock Appreciation Rights. Furthermore, any Shares withheld to satisfy tax withholding obligations on an Award issued under the Plan, Shares tendered to pay the exercise price of an Award under the Plan, and Shares repurchased on the open market with the proceeds of an Option exercise will no longer be eligible to be again available for grant under this Plan.
 
(c)            Substitute Awards shall not reduce the Shares authorized for grant under the Plan or authorized for grant to a Participant in any calendar year.  Additionally, in the event that a company acquired by the Company or any Subsidiary or with which the Company or any Subsidiary combines, has shares available under a pre-existing plan approved by stockholders and not adopted in contemplation of such acquisition or combination, the shares available for grant pursuant to the terms of such pre-existing plan (as adjusted, to the extent appropriate, using the exchange ratio or other adjustment or valuation ratio or formula used in such acquisition or combination to determine the consideration payable to the holders of common stock of the entities party to such acquisition or combination) may be used for Awards under the Plan and shall not reduce the Shares authorized for grant under the Plan; provided that Awards using such available shares shall not be made after the date awards or grants could have been made under the terms of the pre-existing plan, absent the acquisition or combination, and shall only be made to individuals who were not Employees prior to such acquisition or combination.
 
           .  Any Shares issued hereunder may consist, in whole or in part, of authorized and unissued shares, treasury shares or shares purchased in the open market or otherwise.
3.2.
Character of Shares
 
4.             ELIGIBILITY AND ADMINISTRATION
 
           .  Any Employee shall be eligible to be selected as a Participant.
4.1.
Eligibility
 
           . (a) The Plan shall be administered by the Committee.  The Committee shall have full power and authority, subject to the provisions of the Plan and subject to such orders or resolutions not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan as may from time to time be adopted by the Board, to: (i) select the Employees to whom Awards may from time to time be granted hereunder; (ii) determine the type or types of Awards, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, to be granted to each Participant hereunder; (iii) determine the number of Shares or dollar value to be covered by each Award granted hereunder; (iv) determine the terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, of any Award granted hereunder; (v) determine whether, to what extent and under what circumstances Awards may be settled in cash, Shares or other property; (vi) determine whether, to what extent, and under what circumstances cash, Shares, other property and other amounts payable with respect to an Award made under the Plan shall be deferred either automatically or at the election of the Participant; (vii) determine whether, to what extent and under what circumstances any Award shall be canceled or suspended; (viii) interpret and administer the Plan and any instrument or agreement entered into under or in connection with the Plan, including any Award Agreement; (ix) correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or any Award in the manner and to the extent that the Committee shall deem desirable to carry it into effect; (x) establish such rules and regulations and appoint such agents as it shall deem appropriate for the proper administration of the Plan; (xi) determine whether any Award, other than an Option or Stock Appreciation Right, will have Dividend Equivalents; and (xii) make any other determination and take any other action that the Committee deems necessary or desirable for administration of the Plan.
4.2.
Administration
 
(b)           Decisions of the Committee shall be final, conclusive and binding on all persons or entities, including the Company, any Participant, and any Subsidiary.
 
(c)           To the extent not inconsistent with applicable law, including Section 162(m) of the Code, or the rules and regulations of NASDAQ (or such other principal securities exchange on which the Shares are traded), the Committee may delegate to (i) a committee of one or more directors of the Company any of the authority of the Committee under the Plan, including the right to grant, cancel or suspend Awards and (ii) to the extent permitted by law, one or more executive officers or a committee of executive officers the right to grant Awards to Employees who are not executive officers of the Company.
 
5.           OPTIONS
 
           .  Options may be granted hereunder to Participants either alone or in addition to other Awards granted under the Plan.  Any Option shall be subject to the terms and conditions of this Article and to such additional terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as the Committee shall deem desirable.
5.1.
Grant of Options
 
           .  All Options granted pursuant to this Article shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement in such form and containing such terms and conditions as the Committee shall determine which are not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan.  The terms of Options need not be the same with respect to each Participant.  Granting an Option pursuant to the Plan shall impose no obligation on the recipient to exercise such Option.  Any individual who is granted an Option pursuant to this Article may hold more than one Option granted pursuant to the Plan at the same time.
5.2.
Award Agreements
 
           .  Other than in connection with Substitute Awards, the option price per each Share purchasable under any Option granted pursuant to this Article shall not be less than 100% of the Fair Market Value of one Share on the date of grant of such Option; provided that the option price of an incentive stock option granted to an employee who, at the time of grant, owns stock possessing more than ten (10) percent of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of the Company (a Ten Percent Shareholder) shall be no less than 110% of the Fair Market Value of one Share on the date of grant of such Option.  Other than pursuant to Section 12.2, the Committee shall not without the approval of the Company's stockholders (a) lower the option price per Share of an Option after it is granted, (b) cancel an Option in exchange for cash or another Award (other than in connection with a Change in Control as defined in Section 11.2), and (c) take any other action with respect to an Option that would be treated as a repricing under the rules and regulations of the principal securities exchange on which the Shares are traded.
5.3.
Option Price
 
           .  The term of each Option shall be fixed by the Committee in its sole discretion; provided that no Option shall be exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years from the date the Option is granted; provided, further that no incentive stock option granted to a Ten Percent Shareholder shall be exercisable after five (5) years from the date the Option is granted.
5.4.
Option Term
 
           . (a) Options shall be subject to such vesting conditions as may be imposed by the Committee.  Vested Options granted under the Plan shall be exercised by the Participant or by a Permitted Assignee thereof (or by the Participant's executors, administrators, guardian or legal representative, as may be provided in an Award Agreement) as to all or part of the Shares covered thereby, by giving notice of exercise to the Company or its designated agent, specifying the number of Shares to be purchased.  The notice of exercise shall be in such form, made in such manner, and in compliance with such other requirements consistent with the provisions of the Plan as the Committee may prescribe from time to time.
5.5.
Exercise of Options
 
(b)           Unless otherwise provided in an Award Agreement, full payment of such purchase price shall be made at the time of exercise and shall be made (i) in cash or cash equivalents (including certified check or bank check or wire transfer of immediately available funds), (ii) by tendering previously acquired Shares (either actually or by attestation, valued at their then Fair Market Value), (iii) with the consent of the Committee, by delivery of other consideration having a Fair Market Value on the exercise date equal to the total purchase price, (iv) with the consent of the Committee, by withholding Shares otherwise issuable in connection with the exercise of the Option, (v) through any other method specified in an Award Agreement, or (vi) any combination of any of the foregoing.  The notice of exercise, accompanied by such payment, shall be delivered to the Company at its principal business office or such other office as the Committee may from time to time direct, and shall be in such form, containing such further provisions consistent with the provisions of the Plan, as the Committee may from time to time prescribe.  In no event may any Option granted hereunder be exercised for a fraction of a Share.
 
(c)           The Award Agreement for an Option shall set forth the extent to which it may be exercised following termination of the Participant's employment with or provision of services to the Company and its Subsidiaries.
 
           .  In its sole discretion, the Committee may provide that the Shares to be issued upon an Option's exercise shall be in the form of Restricted Stock or other similar securities.
5.6.
Form of Settlement
 
           .  The Committee may grant Options intended to qualify as incentive stock options as defined in Section 422 of the Code, to any employee of the Company or any Subsidiary, subject to the requirements of Section 422 of the Code. The aggregate Fair Market Value (determined as of the date an Option is granted) of the Shares for which incentive stock options granted to any employee under this Plan may first become exercisable in any calendar year shall not exceed $100,000.  Solely for purposes of determining whether Shares are available for the grant of incentive stock options under the Plan, the maximum aggregate number of Shares that may be issued pursuant to incentive stock options granted under the Plan shall be 7,250,000 Shares, subject to adjustment provided in Section 12.2.
5.7.
Incentive Stock Options
 
6.           STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS
 
           .  The Committee may provide Stock Appreciation Rights (a) in conjunction with all or part of any Option granted under the Plan or at any subsequent time during the term of such Option, (b) in conjunction with all or part of any Award (other than an Option) granted under the Plan or at any subsequent time during the term of such Award, or (c) without regard to any Option or other Award, in each case upon such terms and conditions as the Committee may establish in its sole discretion.
6.1.
Grant and Exercise
 
           .  Stock Appreciation Rights shall be subject to such terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan, as shall be determined from time to time by the Committee, including the following:
6.2.
Terms and Conditions
 
(a)           Upon the exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right, the holder shall have the right to receive the excess of (i) the Fair Market Value of one Share on the date of exercise over (ii) the grant price of the Stock Appreciation Right on the date of grant, which, except in the case of Substitute Awards or in connection with an adjustment provided in Section 12.2, shall not be less than the Fair Market Value of one Share on such date of grant of the right.
 
(b)           The Committee shall determine in its sole discretion whether upon the exercise of a Stock Appreciation Right payment shall be made in cash, in whole Shares or other property, or any combination thereof.
 
(c)           The provisions of Stock Appreciation Rights need not be the same with respect to each recipient.
 
(d)           Stock Appreciation Rights shall be subject to such vesting conditions as may be imposed by the Committee.  The Committee may impose such other conditions or restrictions on the terms of exercise of any Stock Appreciation Right, as it shall deem appropriate.  The Award Agreement for the Stock Appreciation Right shall set forth the extent to which it may be exercised following termination of the Participant's employment with or provision of services to the Company and its Subsidiaries.
 
(e)           A Stock Appreciation Right shall have (i) a grant price not less than Fair Market Value on the date of grant (subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code with respect to a Stock Appreciation Right granted in conjunction with, but subsequent to, an Option), and (ii) a term not greater than ten (10) years.
 
(f)           Without the approval of the Company's stockholders, other than pursuant to Section 12.2, the Committee shall not (i) reduce the grant price of any Stock Appreciation Right after the date of grant (ii) cancel any Stock Appreciation Right in exchange for cash or another Award (other than in connection with a Change in Control as defined in Section 10.2), and (iii) take any other action with respect to a Stock Appreciation Right that would be treated as a repricing under the rules and regulations of the principal securities market on which the Shares are traded.
 
(g)           The Committee may impose such terms and conditions on Stock Appreciation Rights granted in conjunction with any Award (other than an Option) as the Committee shall determine in its sole discretion.
 
7.           RESTRICTED STOCK AND RESTRICTED STOCK UNITS
 
         .  Awards of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units may be issued hereunder to Participants either alone or in addition to other Awards granted under the Plan (a Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Stock Unit Award respectively), and such Restricted Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Unit Awards shall also be available as a form of payment of Performance Awards and other earned cash-based incentive compensation.  A Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Stock Unit Award shall be subject to vesting restrictions imposed by the Committee covering a period of time specified by the Committee, unless the Committee applies Article 10 to the Award as provided in Section 10.1.  The Committee has absolute discretion to determine whether any consideration (other than services) is to be received by the Company or any Subsidiary as a condition precedent to the issuance of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units.
7.1.
Grants
 
         .  The terms of any Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Stock Unit Award granted under the Plan shall be set forth in an Award Agreement which shall contain provisions determined by the Committee and not inconsistent with the Plan.  The terms of Restricted Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Unit Awards need not be the same with respect to each Participant.
7.2.
Award Agreements
 
           Unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement, beginning on the date of grant of the Restricted Stock Award and subject to execution of the Award Agreement, the Participant shall become a stockholder of the Company with respect to all Shares subject to the Award Agreement and shall have all of the rights of a stockholder, including the right to vote such Shares and the right to receive distributions made with respect to such Shares.  A Participant receiving a Restricted Stock Unit Award shall not possess any rights of a stockholder with respect to such Award. Except as otherwise provided in an Award Agreement any Shares or any other property (including cash) distributed as a dividend or otherwise with respect to any Restricted Stock Award as to which the restrictions have not yet lapsed shall be subject to the same restrictions as such Restricted Stock Award.  Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section, cash dividends with respect to any Restricted Stock Award and any other property distributed as a dividend or otherwise with respect to any Restricted Stock Award or the number of Shares covered by a Restricted Stock Unit Award that vests based on achievement of performance goals shall either (i) not be paid or credited or (ii) be accumulated, shall be subject to restrictions and risk of forfeiture to the same extent as the Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units with respect to which such cash, Shares or other property has been distributed and shall be paid at the time such restrictions and risk of forfeiture lapse.
7.3.
Rights of Holders of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units.
 
.         .  The Award Agreement for Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Stock Unit Award shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to retain Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units following termination of the Participant's employment with or provision of services to the Company and its Subsidiaries.
7.4
Effect of Termination of Employment
 
         .  Any Restricted Stock granted under the Plan may be evidenced in such manner as the Committee may deem appropriate, including book-entry registration or issuance of a stock certificate or certificates, which certificate or certificates shall be held by the Company.  Such certificate or certificates shall be registered in the name of the Participant and shall bear an appropriate legend referring to the restrictions applicable to such Restricted Stock.
7.5.
Issuance of Shares
 
8.           OTHER SHARE-BASED AWARDS
 
           .  Other Awards of Shares and other Awards that are valued in whole or in part by reference to, or are otherwise based on, Shares or other property (Other Share-Based Awards) may be granted hereunder to Participants either alone or in addition to other Awards granted under the Plan.  Other Share-Based Awards shall also be available as a form of payment of other Awards granted under the Plan and other earned cash-based compensation.  Other Share-Based Awards shall be subject to vesting restrictions imposed by the Committee covering a period of time specified by the Committee, unless the Committee applies Article 10 to the Award as provided in Section 10.1.
8.1.
Grants
 
           .  The terms of Other Share-Based Award granted under the Plan shall be set forth in an Award Agreement which shall contain provisions determined by the Committee and not inconsistent with the Plan.  The terms of such Awards need not be the same with respect to each Participant.  Notwithstanding the provisions of this Section, Dividend Equivalents and cash and any property distributed as a dividend or otherwise with respect to the number of Shares covered by an Other Share-Based Award that vests based on achievement of performance goals shall be subject to restrictions and risk of forfeiture to the same extent as the Shares covered by an Other Share-Based Award with respect to which such cash, Shares or other property has been distributed.
8.2.
Award Agreements
 
           .  The Award Agreement for an Other Share-Based Award shall set forth the extent to the Award will be retained following termination of the Participant's employment with or provision of services to the Company and its Subsidiaries.
8.3.
Effect of Termination of Employment
 
           .  Except as may be provided in an Award Agreement, Other Share-Based Awards may be paid in cash, Shares, other property, or any combination thereof, in the sole discretion of the Committee.  Other Share-Based Awards may be paid in a lump sum or in installments or, in accordance with procedures established by the Committee, on a deferred basis subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
8.4.
Payment
 
9.           PERFORMANCE AWARDS
 
           .  Performance Awards in the form of Performance Cash or Performance Shares, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, may be granted hereunder to Participants, for no consideration or for such minimum consideration as may be required by applicable law, either alone or in addition to other Awards granted under the Plan.  The performance goals to be achieved for each Performance Period shall be conclusively determined by the Committee and may be based upon criteria set forth in Section 10.2.
9.1.
Grants
 
           .  The terms of any Performance Award granted under the Plan shall be set forth in an Award Agreement which shall contain provisions determined by the Committee and not inconsistent with the Plan, including whether such Awards shall have Dividend Equivalents.  The terms of Performance Awards need not be the same with respect to each Participant.
9.2.
Award Agreements
 
           .  The performance criteria to be achieved during any Performance Period and the length of the Performance Period shall be determined by the Committee upon the grant of each Performance Award.  The amount of the Award to be distributed shall be conclusively determined by the Committee.
9.3.
Terms and Conditions
 
           .  The Award Agreement for Performance Awards shall set forth the extent to which the Participant shall have the right to retain Performance Awards following termination of the Participant's employment with or provision of services to the Company and its Subsidiaries.
9.4.
Effect of Termination of Employment
 
           .  Except as provided in Article 11 or as may be provided in an Award Agreement, Performance Awards will be paid only after the end of the relevant Performance Period. Performance Awards may be paid in cash, Shares, other property, or any combination thereof, in the sole discretion of the Committee.  Performance Awards may be paid in a lump sum or in installments following the close of the Performance Period or, in accordance with procedures established by the Committee, on a deferred basis subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.
9.5.
Payment
 
10.           CODE SECTION 162(m) PROVISIONS
 
           .  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, if the Committee determines at the time a Restricted Stock Award, a Restricted Stock Unit Award, a Performance Award or an Other Share-Based Award is granted to a Participant who is, or is likely to be, as of the end of the tax year in which the Company would claim a tax deduction in connection with such Award, a Covered Employee, then the Committee may provide that this Article 10 is applicable to such Award.
10.1.
Covered Employees
 
           .  If the Committee determines that a Restricted Stock Award, a Restricted Stock Unit, a Performance Award or an Other Share-Based Award is intended to be subject to this Article 10, the lapsing of restrictions thereon and the distribution of cash, Shares or other property pursuant thereto, as applicable, shall be subject to the achievement of one or more objective performance goals established by the Committee, which shall be based on the attainment of specified levels of one or any combination of the following: net sales; booking value of contract awards; year-end backlog; days sales outstanding; revenue; revenue growth or product revenue growth; operating income (before or after taxes); pre- or after-tax income (before or after allocation of corporate overhead and bonus); earnings per share; net income (before or after taxes); return on equity; total shareholder return; return on assets or net assets; appreciation in and/or maintenance of the price of the Shares or any other publicly-traded securities of the Company; market share; gross profits; earnings (including earnings before taxes, earnings before interest and taxes or earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization); economic value-added models or equivalent metrics; comparisons with various stock market indices; reductions in costs; cash flow or cash flow per share (before or after dividends); return on capital (including return on total capital or return on invested capital); cash flow return on investment; improvement in or attainment of expense levels or working capital levels; operating margins, gross margins or cash margin; year-end cash; debt reductions; stockholder equity; market share; regulatory achievements; and implementation, completion or attainment of measurable objectives with respect to research, development, products or projects, production volume levels, acquisitions and divestitures and recruiting and maintaining personnel. Such performance goals also may be based solely by reference to the Company's performance or the performance of a Subsidiary, division, business segment or business unit of the Company, or based upon the relative performance of other companies or upon comparisons of any of the indicators of performance relative to other companies.  The Committee may also exclude charges related to an event or occurrence which the Committee determines should appropriately be excluded, including (a) restructurings, discontinued operations, extraordinary items, and other unusual or non-recurring charges, (b) an event either not directly related to the operations of the Company or not within the reasonable control of the Company's management, or (c) the cumulative effects of tax or accounting changes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Such performance goals shall be set by the Committee within the time period prescribed by, and shall otherwise comply with the requirements of, Section 162(m) of the Code, and the regulations thereunder.
10.2.
Performance Criteria
 
           .  Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan (other than Article 11), with respect to any Restricted Stock Award, Restricted Stock Unit Award, Performance Award or Other Share-Based Award that is subject to this Section 10, the Committee may adjust downwards, but not upwards, the amount payable pursuant to such Award, and the Committee may not waive the achievement of the applicable performance goals, except in the case of the death or disability of the Participant or as otherwise determined by the Committee in special circumstances.
10.3.
Adjustments
 
           .  The Committee shall have the power to impose such other restrictions on Awards subject to this Article as it may deem necessary or appropriate to ensure that such Awards satisfy all requirements for performance-based compensation within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code.
10.4.
Restrictions
 
           .  Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 12.2, no Participant may be granted (i) Options during any 12-month period with respect to more than 1 million Shares, (ii) Stock Appreciation Rights during any 12-month period with respect to more than 1 million Shares, (iii) Restricted Stock Awards and Restricted Stock Unit Awards in any 12-month period that are intended to comply with the performance-based exception under Code Section 162(m) and are denominated in Shares with respect to more than 500,000 Shares, (iv) Performance Awards in any 12-month period that are intended to comply with the performance-based exception under Code Section 162(m) and are denominated in Shares with respect to more than 500,000 Shares and (v) Other Share-Based Awards in any 12-month period that are intended to comply with the performance-based exception under Code Section 162(m) and are denominated in Shares with respect to more than 500,000 Shares (the Annual Limits).  In addition to the foregoing, the maximum dollar value that may be earned by any Participant in any 12-month period with respect to Performance Awards that are intended to comply with the performance-based exception under Code Section 162(m) and are denominated in cash is $5 million (such limitation, together with the Annual Limits, the Limitations).  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Limitation with respect to each Award(s) shall be increased by an amount of a Participants unused Limitation applicable to such Award as of the close of the previous 12-month period.  If an Award is cancelled, the cancelled Award shall continue to be counted toward the applicable Limitations.
10.5.
Limitations on Grants to Individual Participants
 
11.           CHANGE IN CONTROL PROVISIONS
 
           . (a)  Unless otherwise provided in an Award Agreement, in the event of a Change in Control of the Company in which the successor company assumes or replaces an Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock Award, Restricted Stock Unit Award, Performance Award or Other Share-Based Award, (or in which the Company is the ultimate parent corporation and continues the Award), if a Participant's employment with such successor company (or a subsidiary thereof) terminates (other than a termination by the Company for cause (as defined in an Award Agreement) within 24 months following such Change in Control (or such other period set forth in the Award Agreement, including prior thereto if applicable): (i) Options and Stock Appreciation Rights outstanding as of the date of such termination of employment will immediately vest, become fully exercisable, and may thereafter be exercised for 24 months, (ii) restrictions, limitations and other conditions on Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units shall lapse and the Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units shall become free of all restrictions, limitations and conditions and become fully vested, (iii) all Performance Awards shall be considered to be earned and payable (pro rata based on the portion of Performance Period completed as of the date of the Change in Control), and any other restriction shall lapse and such Performance Awards shall be immediately settled or distributed, and (iv) the restrictions, limitations and other conditions applicable to any Other Share-Based Awards shall lapse, and such Other Share-Based Awards shall become free of all restrictions, limitations and conditions and become fully vested and transferable to the full extent of the original grant.  For the purposes of this Section 12.1, an Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock Award, Restricted Stock Unit Award, Performance Award or Other Share-Based Award shall be considered assumed or replaced if following the Change in Control the assumed or replacement award confers the right to purchase or receive, for each Share subject to the Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock Award, Restricted Stock Unit Award, Performance Award or Other Share-Based Award immediately prior to the Change in Control, the consideration (whether stock, cash or other securities or property) received in the transaction constituting a Change in Control by holders of Shares for each Share held on the effective date of such transaction (and if holders were offered a choice of consideration, the type of consideration chosen by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares).
11.1.
Treatment of Awards
 
(b)           Unless otherwise provided in an Award Agreement, in the event of any Change in Control of the Company, to the extent the successor company does not assume or replace an Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock Award, Restricted Stock Unit Award, Performance Award or Other Share-Based Award (or in which the Company is the ultimate parent corporation and does not continue the Award): (i) those Options and Stock Appreciation Rights outstanding as of the date of the Change in Control that are not assumed or replaced shall immediately vest and become fully exercisable, (ii) restrictions, limitations and other conditions applicable to Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units that are not assumed or replaced shall lapse and the Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Units shall become free of all restrictions, limitations and conditions and become fully vested, (iii) all Performance Awards shall be considered to be earned and payable (pro rata based on the portion of Performance Period completed as of the date of the Change in Control), and any other restriction shall lapse and such Performance Awards shall be immediately settled or distributed, and (iv) the restrictions, limitations and other conditions applicable to any Other Share-Based Awards shall lapse, and such Other Share-Based Awards shall become free of all restrictions, limitations and conditions and become fully vested and transferable to the full extent of the original grant.
 
(c)           Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee, in its discretion, may determine that, upon the occurrence of a Change in Control of the Company, each Option and Stock Appreciation Right outstanding shall terminate within a specified number of days after notice to the Participant, and/or that each Option and Stock Appreciation Right shall be cancelled and in consideration for such cancellation each Participant shall receive, with respect to each Share subject to such Option or Stock Appreciation Right, an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the Fair Market Value of such Share immediately prior to the occurrence of such Change in Control over the exercise price per share of such Option and/or Stock Appreciation Right; such amount to be payable in cash, in one or more kinds of stock or property (including the stock or property, if any, payable in the transaction) or in a combination thereof, as the Committee, in its discretion, shall determine; provided, that if the exercise price per share of such Option and/or Stock Appreciation Right equals or exceeds the Fair Market Value of such Share immediately prior to the occurrence of such Change in Control, then such Option and/or Stock Appreciation Right may be cancelled without the payment of consideration.
 
          .  For purposes of the Plan, Change in Control means the occurrence of any of the following events:  (i) sale of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company and its Subsidiaries taken as a whole; (ii) any Person or group of Persons is or shall become the beneficial owner (as defined in Rule 13(d)-3 and 13(d)-5 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of more than 50% of the voting stock of the Company then outstanding or (iii) a merger or consolidation pursuant to which any Person or group of Persons becomes the beneficial owner (as defined in clause (ii) above) of more than 50% of the voting stock of the Company or the surviving or resulting entity immediately following the consummation of such transaction.
11.2.
Change in Control
 
12.           GENERALLY APPLICABLE PROVISIONS
 
           .  The Board may, from time to time, alter, amend, suspend or terminate the Plan as it shall deem advisable, subject to any requirement for stockholder approval imposed by applicable law, including the rules and regulations of the principal securities market on which the Shares are traded; provided that the Board may not amend the Plan in any manner that would result in noncompliance with Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act; and further provided that the Board may not, without the approval of the Company's stockholders, amend the Plan to (a) increase the number of Shares that may be the subject of Awards under the Plan (except for adjustments pursuant to Section 12.2), (b) expand the types of awards available under the Plan, (c) materially expand the class of persons eligible to participate in the Plan, (d) amend any provision of Section 5.3 or Section 6.2(f) to eliminate the requirements relating to minimum exercise price, minimum grant price and stockholder approval or (e) increase the maximum permissible term of any Option specified by Section 5.4 or the maximum permissible term of a Stock Appreciation Right specified by Section 6.2(d), or (f) amend any provision of Section 10.5.  The Board may not (except pursuant to Section 12.2 or in connection with a Change in Control), without the approval of the Company's stockholders, cancel an Option or Stock Appreciation Right in exchange for cash or take any other action with respect to an Option or Stock Appreciation Right that would be treated as a repricing under the rules and regulations of the principal securities market on which the Shares are traded, including a reduction of the exercise price of an Option or the grant price of a Stock Appreciation Right or the exchange of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right for another Award.  In addition, no amendments to, or suspension or termination of, the Plan shall impair the rights of a Participant in any material respect under any Award previously granted without such Participant's consent.
12.1.
Amendment and Termination of the Plan
 
           .  In the event of any merger, reorganization, consolidation, recapitalization, dividend or distribution (whether in cash, shares or other property, other than a regular cash dividend), stock split, reverse stock split, spin-off or similar transaction or other change in corporate structure affecting the Shares or the value thereof, such adjustments and other substitutions shall be made to the Plan and to Awards as the Committee deems equitable or appropriate to prevent dilution or enlargement of the rights of Participants under the Plan, taking into consideration the accounting and tax consequences, including such adjustments in the aggregate number, class and kind of securities that may be delivered under the Plan, the Limitations, the maximum number of Shares that may be issued as incentive stock options and, in the aggregate or to any one Participant, in the number, class, kind and option or exercise price of securities subject to outstanding Awards granted under the Plan (including, if the Committee deems appropriate, the substitution of similar options to purchase the shares of, or other awards denominated in the shares of, another company) as the Committee may determine to be appropriate provided, however, that the number of Shares subject to any Award shall always be a whole number.
12.2.
Adjustments
 
           .  Except as provided below, no Award and no Shares subject to Awards described in Article 8 that have not been issued or as to which any applicable restriction, performance or deferral period has not lapsed, may be sold, assigned, transferred, pledged or otherwise encumbered, other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and such Award may be exercised during the life of the Participant only by the Participant or the Participant's guardian or legal representative.  To the extent and under such terms and conditions as determined by the Committee, a Participant may assign or transfer an Award without consideration (each transferee thereof, a Permitted Assignee) to (i) the Participant's spouse, children or grandchildren (including any adopted and step children or grandchildren), parents, grandparents or siblings, (ii) to a trust in which a majority of the beneficiaries are the Participant or the persons referred to in clause (i), (iii) to a partnership, limited liability company or corporation in which the participant or the Persons referred to in clause (i) are a majority of the partners, members or shareholders or (iv) for charitable donations; provided that such Permitted Assignee shall be bound by and subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Plan and the Award Agreement relating to the transferred Award and shall execute an agreement satisfactory to the Company evidencing such obligations; and provided further that such Participant shall remain bound by the terms and conditions of the Plan.  The Company shall cooperate with any Permitted Assignee and the Company's transfer agent in effectuating any transfer permitted under this Section.
12.3.
Transferability of Awards
 
           .  The Committee shall determine and set forth in each Award Agreement whether any Awards granted in such Award Agreement will continue to be exercisable, and the terms of such exercise, on and after the date that a Participant ceases to be employed by or to provide services to the Company or any Subsidiary, whether by reason of death, disability, voluntary or involuntary termination of employment or services, or otherwise.  The date of termination of a Participant's employment or services will be determined by the Committee, which determination will be final.
12.4.
Termination of Employment
 
           .  The Committee shall be authorized to establish procedures pursuant to which the payment of any Award may be deferred.  Subject to the provisions of the Plan and any Award Agreement, the recipient of an Award (including any deferred Award), other than an Option or Stock Appreciation Right, may, if so determined by the Committee, be entitled to receive, currently or on a deferred basis amounts equivalent to cash, stock or other property dividends on Shares (Dividend Equivalents) with respect to the number of Shares covered by the Award, as determined by the Committee, in its sole discretion.  The Committee may provide the Dividend Equivalents (if any) shall be deemed to have been reinvested in additional Shares or otherwise reinvested and may provide that such amounts and Dividend Equivalents are subject to the same vesting or performance conditions as the underlying Award.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Dividend Equivalents credited in connection with an Award that vests based on the achievement of performance goals shall be subject to restrictions and risk of forfeiture to the same extent as the Award with respect to which such cash, stock or other property has been distributed.
12.5.
Deferral; Dividend Equivalents
 
13.           MISCELLANEOUS
 
.           .  The Company shall have the right to make all payments or distributions pursuant to the Plan to a Participant (or a Permitted Assignee thereof) (any such person, a Payee) net of any applicable federal, state and local taxes required to be paid or withheld as a result of (a) the grant of any Award, (b) the exercise of an Option or Stock Appreciation Right, (c) the delivery of Shares or cash, (d) the lapse of any restrictions in connection with any Award or (e) any other event occurring pursuant to the Plan.  The Company or any Subsidiary shall have the right to withhold from wages or other amounts otherwise payable to such Payee such withholding taxes as may be required by law, or to otherwise require the Payee to pay such withholding taxes.  If the Payee shall fail to make such tax payments as are required, the Company or its Subsidiaries shall, to the extent permitted by law, have the right to deduct any such taxes from any payment of any kind otherwise due to such Payee or to take such other action as may be necessary to satisfy such withholding obligations.  The Committee shall be authorized to establish procedures for election by Participants to satisfy such obligation for the payment of such taxes by tendering previously acquired Shares (either actually or by attestation, valued at their then Fair Market Value), or by directing the Company to retain Shares (up to the Participant's minimum required tax withholding rate or such other rate that will not trigger a negative accounting impact) otherwise deliverable in connection with the Award.
13.1
Tax Withholding
 
           .  Nothing in the Plan nor the grant of an Award hereunder shall confer upon any Employee the right to continue in the employment or service of the Company or any Subsidiary or affect any right that the Company or any Subsidiary may have to terminate the employment or service of (or to demote or to exclude from future Awards under the Plan) any such Employee at any time for any reason.  Except as specifically provided by the Committee, the Company shall not be liable for the loss of existing or potential profit from an Award granted in the event of termination of an employment or other relationship.  No Employee or Participant shall have any claim to be granted any Award under the Plan, and there is no obligation for uniformity of treatment of Employees or Participants under the Plan.
13.2.
Right of Discharge Reserved; Claims to Awards
 
           .  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, the terms of Substitute Awards may vary from the terms set forth in the Plan to the extent the Committee deems appropriate to conform, in whole or in part, to the provisions of the awards in substitution for which they are granted.
13.3.
Substitute Awards
 
           . (a) The Committee may specify in an Award Agreement that the Participant's rights, payments, and benefits with respect to an Award shall be subject to reduction, cancellation, forfeiture, or recoupment upon the occurrence of certain specified events, in addition to any otherwise applicable vesting or performance conditions of an Award. Such events may include, but shall not be limited to, termination of employment for cause, termination of the Participant's provision of services to the Company and/or a Subsidiary, violation of material Company, and/or Subsidiary policies, breach of noncompetition, non-solicitation, confidentiality, or other restrictive covenants that may apply to the Participant, or other conduct by the Participant that is detrimental to the business or reputation of the Company, and/or its Subsidiaries.
13.4.
Forfeiture Events
 
 (b)           If the Company is required to file an accounting restatement due to the material noncompliance of the Company, as a result of misconduct, with any financial reporting requirement under the securities laws, if the Participant knowingly or recklessly engaged in the misconduct, or knowingly or recklessly failed to prevent or report the misconduct, or if the Participant is one of the individuals subject to automatic forfeiture under Section 304 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, the Participant shall reimburse the Company the amount of any payment in settlement of an Award earned or accrued for such period as determined by the Committee following the first public issuance or filing with the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (whichever just occurred) of the financial document reflecting such material noncompliance.
 
           .  All certificates for Shares delivered under the Plan pursuant to any Award shall be subject to such stop-transfer orders and other restrictions as the Committee may deem advisable under the rules, regulations and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission, any stock exchange upon which the Shares are then listed, and any applicable federal or state securities law, and the Committee may cause a legend or legends to be put on any such certificates to make appropriate reference to such restrictions.
13.5.
Stop Transfer Orders
 
           .  All Awards made pursuant to the Plan are in consideration of services performed or to be performed for the Company or any Subsidiary, division or business unit of the Company.  Any income or gain realized pursuant to Awards under the Plan constitutes a special incentive payment to the Participant and shall not be taken into account, to the extent permissible under applicable law, as compensation for purposes of any of the employee benefit plans of the Company or any Subsidiary except as may be determined by the Committee or by the Board or board of directors of the applicable Subsidiary.
13.6.
Nature of Payments
 
           .  Nothing contained in the Plan shall prevent the Board from adopting other or additional compensation arrangements, subject to stockholder approval if such approval is required; and such arrangements may be either generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases.
13.7.
Other Plans
 
           .  If any provision of the Plan shall be held unlawful or otherwise invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part by a court of competent jurisdiction or by reason of a change in law or regulation, such provision shall (a) be deemed limited to the extent that such court of competent jurisdiction deems it lawful, valid and/or enforceable and as so limited shall remain in full force and effect, and (b) not affect any other provision of the Plan or part thereof, each of which shall remain in full force and effect.  If the making of any payment or the provision of any other benefit required under the Plan shall be held unlawful or otherwise invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, such unlawfulness, invalidity or unenforceability shall not prevent any other payment or benefit from being made or provided under the Plan, and if the making of any payment in full or the provision of any other benefit required under the Plan in full would be unlawful or otherwise invalid or unenforceable, then such unlawfulness, invalidity or unenforceability shall not prevent such payment or benefit from being made or provided in part, to the extent that it would not be unlawful, invalid or unenforceable, and the maximum payment or benefit that would not be unlawful, invalid or unenforceable shall be made or provided under the Plan.
13.8.
Severability
 
           .  As used in the Plan, the words include and including, and variations thereof, shall not be deemed to be terms of limitation, but rather shall be deemed to be followed by the words without limitation.
13.9.
Construction
 
             The Plan is intended to constitute an unfunded plan for incentive compensation.  With respect to any payments not yet made to a Participant by the Company, nothing contained herein shall give any such Participant any rights that are greater than those of a general unsecured creditor of the Company.  In its sole discretion, the Committee may authorize the creation of trusts or other arrangements to meet the obligations created under the Plan to deliver the Shares or payments in lieu of or with respect to Awards hereunder; provided, however, that the existence of such trusts or other arrangements is consistent with the unfunded status of the Plan.
13.10.
Unfunded Status of the Plan.
 
           .  The Plan and all determinations made and actions taken thereunder, to the extent not otherwise governed by the Code or the laws of the United States, shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, without reference to principles of conflict of laws, and construed accordingly.
13.11.
Governing Law
 
           .  The Plan shall be effective on the date of the approval of the Plan by the Board.  Awards may be granted under the Plan at any time and from time to time on or prior to the tenth anniversary of the effective date of the Plan, on which date the Plan will expire except as to Awards then outstanding under the Plan.  Such outstanding Awards shall remain in effect until they have been exercised or terminated, or have expired.
13.12.
Effective Date of Plan; Termination of Plan
 
           .  Awards may be granted to Participants who are foreign nationals or employed outside the United States, or both, on such terms and conditions different from those applicable to Awards to Employees employed in the United States as may, in the judgment of the Committee, be necessary or desirable in order to recognize differences in local law or tax policy.  The Committee also may impose conditions on the exercise or vesting of Awards in order to minimize the Company's obligation with respect to tax equalization for Employees on assignments outside their home country.
13.13.
Foreign Employees
 
           .  This Plan is intended to comply and shall be administered in a manner that is intended to comply with Section 409A of the Code and shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with such intent.  To the extent that an Award or the payment, settlement or deferral thereof is subject to Section 409A of the Code, the Award shall be granted, paid, settled or deferred in a manner that will comply with Section 409A of the Code, including regulations or other guidance issued with respect thereto, except as otherwise determined by the Committee.  Any provision of this Plan that would cause the grant of an Award or the payment, settlement or deferral thereof to fail to satisfy Section 409A of the Code shall be amended to comply with Section 409A of the Code on a timely basis, which may be made on a retroactive basis, in accordance with regulations and other guidance issued under Section 409A of the Code.
13.14.
Compliance with Section 409A of the Code
 
           .  The Company has no obligation to register with any governmental body or organization any of (a) the offer or issuance of any Award, (b) any Shares issuable upon the exercise of any Award, or (c) the sale of any Shares issued upon exercise of any Award, regardless of whether the Company in fact undertakes to register any of the foregoing.  In particular, in the event that any of (x) any offer or issuance of any Award, (y) any Shares issuable upon exercise of any Award, or (z) the sale of any Shares issued upon exercise of any Award are not registered with any governmental body or organization, the Company will not under any circumstance be required to settle its obligations, if any, under this Plan in cash.
13.15.
No Registration Rights; No Right to Settle in Cash
 
           .  The captions in the Plan are for convenience of reference only, and are not intended to narrow, limit or affect the substance or interpretation of the provisions contained herein.
13.16.
Captions
 


