FILE:MNST/MNST-8K-20120111163845.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
Item 8.01
Other Events
 
On January 11, 2012, Monster Beverage Corporation announced that its Board of Directors approved a 2-for-1 stock split of its common stock to be effected in the form of a 100% stock dividend. On February 15, 2012, each stockholder will receive one additional share of common stock for each share of common stock owned at the close of business (Eastern Time) on February 6, 2012.  A copy of the press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
 
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(d)
                                
Exhibits.
 
The following exhibit is furnished herewith
 
99.1
                          
Press Release, dated January 11, 2012.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
Corona, CA - January 11, 2012  Monster Beverage Corporation (NASDAQ:MNST) (the "Company") today announced that its Board of Directors has approved a 2-for-1 split of its common stock which will be effected in the form of a 100% stock dividend.  On February 15, 2012 each stockholder will receive one additional share of common stock for each outstanding share of common stock held at the close of business (Eastern Time) on February 6, 2012.  Upon completion of the stock split, the number of outstanding shares of the Company's common stock will double to approximately 174.3 million shares.
 
Monster Beverage Corporation
 
Based in Corona, California, Monster Beverage Corporation is a marketer and distributor of energy drinks and alternative beverages. The Company markets and distributes Monster Energy brand energy drinks, Monster Energy Extra Strength Nitrous Technology brand energy drinks, Java Monster brand non-carbonated coffee + energy drinks, X-Presso Monster brand non-carbonated espresso energy drinks, M-3 superconcentrated energy drinks, Monster Rehab non-carbonated rehydration energy drinks, Worx Energy shots, and Peace Tea  iced teas, as well as Hansen's natural sodas, apple juice and juice blends, multi-vitamin juices, Junior Juice beverages, Blue Sky beverages, Hubert's Lemonades, Vidration vitamin enhanced waters, and PRE Probiotic drinks.  For more information visit www.monsterbevcorp.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
 
Certain statements made in this announcement may constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, regarding the expectations of management with respect to our future operating results and other future events including revenues and profitability.  Management cautions that these statements are based on management's current knowledge and expectations and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of the control of the Company, that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from the statements made herein.  Such risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to, the following: the current uncertainty and volatility in the national and global economy; changes in consumer preferences; changes in demand due to both domestic and international economic conditions; activities and strategies of competitors, including the introduction of new products and competitive pricing and/or marketing of similar products; potential distribution disruptions and/or decline in sales arising out of the termination and/or appointment of domestic and/or international distributors; changes in the price and/or availability of raw materials; other supply issues, including the availability of products and/or suitable production facilities; product distribution and placement decisions by retailers; changes in governmental regulation; the imposition of new and/or increased taxes on our products; political, legislative or other governmental actions or events in one or more regions in which we operate.  For a more detailed discussion of these and other risks that could affect our operating results, see the Company's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The Company's actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements.  The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 


