FILE:MNST/MNST-8K-20120813162754.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
 
On August 13, 2012, Monster Beverage Corporation (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that the Company's Board of Directors has authorized an increase in its share repurchase program to repurchase an additional $250 million of its outstanding common stock. As of August 13, 2012, the total amount available under the authorization is $500 million. The Company expects the share repurchases to be made from time to time in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions, or otherwise, subject to applicable laws, regulations and approvals. The timing of the share repurchases will depend on a variety of factors, including market conditions, and share repurchases may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto.
.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits
Exhibit 99.1 Press Release dated August 13, 2012.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Monster Beverage Corporation
Date:  August 13, 2012                                        /s/ Hilton H. Schlosberg
-------------------------------
Hilton H. Schlosberg
Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors,
President and Chief Financial Officer

CONTACTS:                                        Rodney C. Sacks
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer
(951) 739-6200
Hilton H. Schlosberg
Vice Chairman
(951) 739-6200
Roger S. Pondel / Judy Lin Sfetcu
PondelWilkinson Inc.
(310) 279-5980
As of August 13, 2012, the total amount available under the authorization is $500 million. The Company expects the share repurchases to be made from time to time in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions, or otherwise, subject to applicable laws, regulations and approvals. The timing of the share repurchases will depend on a variety of factors, including market conditions, and share repurchases may be suspended or discontinued at any time.
Corona, CA
 August 13, 2012  Monster Beverage Corporation (NASDAQ:MNST) today announced that its Board of Directors has authorized an increase in its share repurchase program to repurchase an additional $250 million of its outstanding common stock.
Monster Beverage Corporation
Based in Corona, California, Monster Beverage Corporation is a marketer and distributor of energy drinks and alternative beverages. The Company markets and distributes Monster Energy brand energy drinks, Monster Energy Extra Strength Nitrous Technology brand energy drinks, Java Monster brand non-carbonated coffee + energy drinks, X-Presso Monster brand non-carbonated espresso energy drinks, M3 Monster Energy Super Concentrate energy drinks, Monster Rehab non-carbonated rehydration energy drinks, bermonster energy drinks, Worx Energy shots, and Peace Tea iced teas, as well as Hansens natural sodas, apple juice and juice blends, multi-vitamin juices, Junior Juice beverages, Blue Sky beverages, Huberts Lemonades, Vidration vitamin enhanced waters, and PRE Probiotic drinks.  For more information visit www.monsterbevcorp.com.
Forward-Looking Statements
Certain statements made in this announcement may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. Management cautions that these statements are based on managements current knowledge and expectations and are subject to certain risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of the control of the Company, that could cause actual results and events to differ materially from the statements made herein. For a more detailed discussion of the risks that could affect our operating results, see our filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including our annual report on Form 10-K and our subsequently filed quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. The Companys actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking statements, including with respect to the repurchase program. The Company assumes no obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.


