FILE:MNST/MNST-8K-20120106150115.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.03
Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
 
On January 5, 2012, Hansen Natural Corporation (the "Company") filed a Certificate of Amendment to its Certificate of Incorporation to change its name to "Monster Beverage Corporation."  As discussed below, the Company's stockholders approved the amendment to the Certificate of Incorporation to change the Company's name at the Special Meeting of Stockholders of the Company (the "Special Meeting").  The Certificate of Amendment is filed as Exhibit 3.1 to this report.  A copy of the press release issued by the Company announcing the change of its name is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
Item 5.07
Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
 
The Special Meeting was held on January 5, 2012.  The Company previously filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission the proxy statement and related materials pertaining to the Special Meeting.  At the Special Meeting, the following matters were submitted to a vote of the stockholders.
 
Proposal No. 1.
  To approve an amendment to the Company's Certificate of Incorporation to change the name of the Company from "Hansen Natural Corporation" to "Monster Beverage Corporation."
 
In accordance with the results below, the amendment to the Company's Certificate of Incorporation to change the name of the Company from "Hansen Natural Corporation" to "Monster Beverage Corporation", as described in the proxy statement, was approved.
 
 
Proposal No. 2.
 To approve an amendment to the Company's Certificate of Incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of Common Stock, par value $0.005 per share, from 120,000,000 shares to 240,000,000 shares.
 
In accordance with the results below, the amendment to the Company's Certificate of Incorporation to increase the number of authorized shares of Common Stock, par value $0.005 per share, from 120,000,000 shares to 240,000,000 shares, as described in the proxy statement, was approved.
 
 
Item 8.01
Other Events.
 
Effective January 9, 2012, the Company's common stock, which previously traded under the ticker symbol "HANS" on The Nasdaq Global Select Market, will begin trading under the new ticker symbol "MNST".  The Company's common stock has been assigned a new CUSIP number of 611740101 in connection with the name change.  Outstanding stock certificates for shares of the Company are not affected by the name change; they continue to be valid and need not be exchanged.
Item 9.01
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
We, the undersigned, being Chairman and Secretary of Hansen Natural Corporation, a corporation existing under the laws of the State of Delaware, do hereby certify as follows:
 
FIRST:
                                                        
The name of the Corporation is Hansen Natural Corporation.
 
SECOND:
                                        
The amendments to the certificate of incorporation effected by this Certificate are as follows:
 
(1)
                                                                                 
To delete ARTICLE I of the certificate of incorporation and substitute in lieu thereof the following new ARTICLE I:
 
"The name of the corporation is: MONSTER BEVERAGE CORPORATION."
 
(2)
                                                                                 
To delete ARTICLE IV of the certificate of incorporation and substitute in lieu thereof the following new ARTICLE IV:
 
"The aggregate number of shares of stock that the Corporation shall have authority to issue is two hundred and forty million (240,000,000) shares of common stock $0.005 par value per share."
 
THIRD:
                                                    
The amendments of the certificate of incorporation herein certified have been duly adopted in accordance with the provisions of Section 242 and 141(f) of the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware.
 
 
IN WITNESS THEREOF, we have signed this Certificate this 5th day of January, 2012.
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Corona, CA  January 5, 2012 
Hansen Natural Corporation (NASDAQ:HANS) announced it received stockholders' approval today, at the company's special meeting of stockholders, to change its corporate name to Monster Beverage Corporation.  The company's shares will start trading under its new name and stock ticker symbol, "MNST", effective as of market open on January 9, 2012.  The company's common stock has been assigned a new CUSIP number of 611740101 in connection with the name change.  Outstanding stock certificates are not affected by the name change and will not need to be exchanged.
 
At the special meeting, the company's stockholders also approved an increase in the number of authorized shares of common stock to 240,000,000 shares from 120,000,000 shares.
 
Following the special meeting, the company filed an amendment with the Delaware Secretary of State to effect both the name change and increase in authorized shares.
 
Hansen Natural Corporation
 
Based in Corona, California, Hansen Natural Corporation markets and distributes Hansen's natural sodas, apple juice and juice blends, fruit juice smoothies, multi-vitamin juices, iced teas, energy drinks, Junior Juice beverages, Blue Sky beverages, Monster Energy energy drinks, Monster Energy Extra Strength Nitrous Technology energy drinks, Java Monster non-carbonated coffee + energy drinks, X-Presso Monster non-carbonated espresso energy drinks, Monster Rehab non-carbonated rehydration energy drinks, Peace Tea iced teas, Worx Energy energy shots, Vidration brand vitamin enhanced waters, Hubert's lemonades, and PRE Probiotic drinks.  For more information, visit www.monsterbevcorp.com and www.monsterenergy.com.


