FILE:NDAQ/NDAQ-8K-20040907171043.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
            Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
            Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under t he Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
            Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
Table of Contents
 
Item 2.01. Completion of Acquisition or Disposition of Assets
 
On September 7, 2004, The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. ("Nasdaq") completed its acquisition of Brut, LLC ("Brut"), the owner and operator of the Brut electronic communication network, and affiliated entities from SunGard Data Systems, Inc., pursuant to the terms of a purchase agreement dated as of May 25, 2004 and amended as of September 7, 2004 (the "Purchase Agreement").   Nasdaq acquired Brut by purchasing all of the membership interests in Brut's parent, a Delaware limited liability company.  Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, Nasdaq paid total cash consideration of $190 million, which is subject to certain post-closing adjustments. The source of the funds for the acquisition was from available cash and investments.  Nasdaq is not aware of any pre-existing material relationship between Nasdaq and its affiliates and SunGard and its affiliates.  A press release, dated September 7, 2004, discussing the acquisition is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
(a) Financial statements of business acquired.
 
Financial statements required by this Item will be filed by amendment not later than 71 calendar days after the date this initial report on Form 8-K must be filed.
 
(b) Pro forma financial information
 
Pro forma financial information required by this Item will be filed by amendment not later than 71 calendar days after the date this initial report on Form 8-K must be filed.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 2.02
AMENDMENT NO. 1 TO THE PURCHASE AGREEMENT
 
Amendment No. 1 (this ), dated as of September 7, 2004, is made by and among Automated Securities Clearance, Ltd., a New Jersey corporation, Toll Associates LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and SunGard Data Systems, Inc., a Delaware corporation.
"Amendment"
 
WHEREAS, the parties hereto have entered into the Purchase Agreement, dated May 25, 2004 (the ); and
"Purchase Agreement"
 
WHEREAS, in accordance with Section 12.4 of the Purchase Agreement, the parties hereto desire to make certain amendments to the Purchase Agreement.
 
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements, covenants, representations and warranties set forth herein, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, and intending to be legally bound hereby, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
1.             .  Capitalized terms used herein without definition shall have the meanings assigned to such terms in the Purchase Agreement.
Capitalized Terms
 
2.             .  The Purchase Agreement is hereby amended as set forth in this Section 2:
Amendments
 
a.             Section 1 of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following as Sections 1.130, 1.131, 1.132, 1.133 and 1.134:
 
shall have the meaning given that term in .
1.130. 
"Brut's Certified Cash Assets"
Section 7.2.5
 
shall have the meaning given that term in .
1.131. 
"Estimated Seller's Assets"
Section 7.2.5
 
shall have the meaning given that term in
1.132. 
"Excess Seller's Asset Value"
Section 2.4.
 
shall have the meaning given that term in .
1.133. 
"Outstanding Checks Amount"
Section 7.2.5
 
means the dollar amount of the sum of each of the sale bonus amounts set forth on attached hereto."
1.134.  "Sale Bonus Amount"
Schedule A
 
b.             Section 1.105 of the Purchase Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
 
"  means, without duplication, Brut's Cash Assets plus its prepaids and cash deposits plus BEL's Cash Assets."
1.105.
"Seller's Assets"
 
c.             Section 2.2 of the Purchase Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
 
"  The total purchase price for the Membership Interests (the ) shall be (a) a cash payment in the amount of (i) One Hundred Ninety Million Dollars ($190,000,000), plus (ii) the dollar amount of the Estimated Seller's Assets, minus (iii) the Sale Bonus Amount (collectively, the ), which shall be payable to Seller at Closing, plus (b) a cash payment equal to the Excess Seller's Asset Value, if any, which shall be payable to Seller in accordance with , plus (c) a cash payment equal to the Working Capital Excess, if any, which shall be payable to Seller in accordance with , minus (d) a cash payment equal to the Working Capital Deficit, if any, which shall be payable to Buyer in accordance with ."
2.2.  Purchase Price.
"Purchase Price"
"Closing Payment"
Section 2.4
Section 2.5
Section 2.5
 
d.             The phrase "as of the Closing Date ()" in Section 2.3 of the Purchase Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced with the phrase "as of 11:59 p.m., New York City time, on the day immediately preceding the Closing Date ()".
"Closing Balance Sheet"
"Closing Balance Sheet"
 
e.             Section 2.4 of the Purchase Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
 
"  To the extent that the aggregate dollar amount of Seller's Assets reflected on the Closing Balance Sheet (the ) exceeds the dollar amount of the Estimated Sellers' Assets (the ), such Excess Seller's Asset Value shall represent on a dollar for dollar basis the Purchase Price component payable by Buyer pursuant to .  The amount of the Excess Seller's Asset Value shall be paid by Buyer to Seller in cash within ten (10) business days after the Working Capital Statement is ultimately finalized in accordance with ."
2.4.  Seller's Asset Value.
"Seller's Asset Value"
"Excess Seller's Asset Value"
Section 2.2(b)
Section 2.5.1
 
f.              Section 2.5 of the Purchase Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
 
"  The Purchase Price component payable by Buyer pursuant to shall be equal to the amount by which (a) Brut's consolidated working capital, assuming there is no Seller's Asset Value, as of 11:59 p.m., New York City time, on the day immediately preceding the Closing Date (, current Assets Seller's Assets and current liabilities, each as reflected on the Closing Balance Sheet) (b) Brut's consolidated working capital, assuming there is no Seller's Asset Value, as of December 31, 2003 (, current Assets Seller's Assets and current liabilities, each as reflected on the Latest Audited Balance Sheet) ("").  The Purchase Price component payable by Seller pursuant to shall be equal to (a)(i) the amount by which Brut's consolidated working capital, assuming there is no Seller's Asset Value, as of December 31, 2003 (, current Assets Seller's Assets and current liabilities, each as reflected on the Latest Audited Balance Sheet) (ii) Brut's consolidated working capital, assuming there is no Seller's Asset Value, as of 11:59 p.m., New York City time, on the day immediately preceding the Closing Date (, current Assets Seller's Assets and current liabilities, each as reflected on the Closing Balance Sheet) (b) the amount by which the Estimated Seller's Assets the Seller's Asset Value (the sum of the foregoing clause (a) and clause (b), ).  In no event shall any of the Sale Bonus Amount be included as a liability on the Closing Balance Sheet for purposes of calculating the working capital adjustments described in this ."
2.5.  Working Capital Adjustment.
Section 2.2(c)
i.e.
less
exceeds
i.e.
less
Working Capital Excess
Section 2.2(d)
i.e.
less
exceeds
i.e.
less
plus
exceeds
"Working Capital Deficit"
Section 2.5
 
g.             The phrase "Buyer agrees that beginning on the date following the Closing Date" in Section 2.9(a) of the Purchase Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced with the phrase "Buyer agrees that
beginning on the Closing Date" and the phrase "as of the Closing Date" in Section 2.9(a) of the Purchase Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced with the phrase "as of 11:59 p.m., New York City time, on the day immediately preceding the Closing Date".
 
h.             Section 5 of the Purchase Agreement is hereby amended by adding the following as Section 5.12:
 
" Buyer shall cause Brut within thirty (30) days after the Closing to pay each employee listed on attached hereto the amount set forth next to such employee's name on attached hereto (net of applicable withholding Taxes) in accordance with the terms of the Sale Bonus Agreement between Parent and such employee."
5.12.  Sale Bonus.
Schedule A
Schedule A
 
i.              Section 7.1 shall be amended by inserting the following sentence at the end of such section: "The Closing shall take effect at 12:01 a.m., New York City time, on the Closing Date."
 
j.              Section 7.2.5 of the Purchase Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
 
"  .  A certificate, in form and substance satisfactory to Buyer, dated the Closing Date and duly executed by the President and Chief Financial Officer of each Toll Entity, certifying as to the amount of total Cash Assets of each Toll Entity as of 11:59 p.m., New York City time, on the day immediately preceding the Closing Date, together with supporting bank statements as to account balances and similar documentation; provided, that for purposes of this , the certificate of Brut shall certify as to the amount, as of 11:59 p.m., New York City time, on the day immediately preceding the Closing Date, of (a) total Cash Assets of Brut and BEL in their respective bank accounts (), (b) Brut's total cash deposits with NSCC and Merrill Pro ( and together with Bank Held Cash, ), in the case of each of clause (a) and clause (b), together with supporting bank statements as to account balances and/or similar documentation, (c) the good faith estimate of the aggregate dollar amount of Brut's outstanding checks and electronic payments (), together with supporting documentation and reasonable detail, and (d) Brut's Certified Cash Assets less the Outstanding Checks Amount ()."
Section 7.2.5.
Cash Asset Certification
Section 7.2.5
"Bank Held Cash"
"NSCC/Merrill Deposits"
"Brut's Certified Cash Assets"
"Outstanding Checks Amount"
"Estimated Seller's Assets"
 
k.             Each occurrence of the phrase "the Closing Date" in Section 9.1 of the Purchase Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced with the phrase "the day immediately preceding the Closing Date".
 
l.              The final occurrence of the phrase "the Closing Date" in Section 9.2 of the Purchase Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced with the phrase "the day immediately preceding the Closing Date".
 
m.            The phrase "after the Closing Date" in Section 9.3 of the Purchase Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced with the phrase "on or after the Closing Date".
 
n.             The first occurrence of the phrase "the Closing Date" in Section 9.4 of the Purchase Agreement is hereby deleted and replaced with the phrase "the day immediately preceding the Closing Date" and the final occurrence of the phrase "after the Closing Date" is hereby deleted and replaced with the phrase "on or after the Closing Date".
o.             Section 9.5 of the Purchase Agreement is hereby deleted in its entirety and replaced with the following:
 
Tax Indemnity
"
9.5. 
.
 
           Seller shall indemnify and hold harmless Buyer Indemnities from and against:
(a)
 
any Taxes of each of the Toll Entities arising with respect to any period ending on or before the day immediately preceding the Closing Date and the portion of any other period ending on the day immediately preceding the Closing Date;
(i)           
 
any Taxes or Losses incurred or suffered by Buyer as a result of or arising out of any breach or any representation or warranty of Seller contained in ;
(ii)          
Section 3.15
 
any Taxes imposed on Brut Inc as a member of the "affiliated group" (within the meaning of Section 1504(a) of the Code) of which Seller (or any predecessor or successor thereof) is the common parent that arises under Treasury Regulation Section 1.1502-6(a) and any similar provisions under state or local Law including Brut Inc as a member in a unitary business as that term has been defined in U.S. Supreme Court jurisprudence;
(iii)        
"
"
 
the breach by Seller or the failure by Seller to perform (or cause to have performed) any of the covenants made by it or agreements entered into contained in this ; and
(iv)         
Section 9
 
any Taxes or Losses incurred or suffered by the Buyer Indemnitees as a result of the application of Section 280G(a) or Section 4999(a) of the Code to any Sale Bonus Amount or any other payment made pursuant to any agreement with Seller or its Affiliates that may be deemed a "parachute payment" within the meaning of Section 280G(b)(2) of the Code (collectively, ""), provided, however, that the indemnity provisions of this shall only be applicable if Section 280G(a) or Section 4999(a) of the Code would apply solely to the Seller Parachute Payments, without aggregation of any "parachute payments" made pursuant to any agreement with Buyer (other than this Agreement).
(v)           
Seller Parachute Payments
Section 9.5(a)(v)
 
           Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the obligations of the parties set forth in this shall: (i) remain in full force and effect until thirty (30) days following the expiration of the applicable statute of limitations (taking into account all extensions thereof); and (ii) not be subject to .  In the event of a conflict between this and any other provision of this Agreement, this shall govern and control."
(b)
Section 9
Section 10
Section 9
Section 9
 
3.             .  This Amendment may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be an original hereof.
Counterparts
 
4.             .  No amendment or modification of this Amendment shall be effective unless in writing and signed by the party against whom enforcement is sought.
Modifications
 
5.             .  THIS AMENDMENT IS MADE UNDER, AND SHALL BE CONSTRUED AND ENFORCED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF DELAWARE
Controlling Law
APPLICABLE TO AGREEMENTS MADE AND TO BE PERFORMED SOLELY THEREIN, WITHOUT GIVING EFFECT TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW.
 
6.             .  Except as specifically provided in this Amendment, this Amendment shall not be deemed to amend or alter any other terms, obligations or conditions set forth in the Purchase Agreement or any of the documents referred to therein.  Wherever the Purchase Agreement is referred to in the Purchase Agreement or in any other agreements, documents, instruments, certificates, such reference shall be to the Purchase Agreement as amended hereby. Except as expressly amended hereby, the terms and conditions of the Purchase Agreement shall continue in full force and effect.
Miscellaneous
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have executed this Amendment as of the date first written above.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
Media Contacts:
Bethany Sherman
212-401-8714
Silvia Davi
646-441-5014
Investor Contact:
Vincent Palmiere, NASDAQ
212.401.8742
Jody Burfening/Carolyn Capaccio
Lippert/Heilshorn & Associates
212.838.3777
NEW YORK, NY, September 7, 2004  The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. ("NASDAQ"; OTCBB: NDAQ) today announced that it has completed its acquisition of Brut LLC, the owner and operator of the Brut ECN, from SunGard Data Systems Inc. (NYSE: SDS) for a total consideration of $190 million in cash.  NASDAQ has received all the necessary regulatory approvals and expects the transaction to be accretive to its shareholders within 12 months.
 
The completion of the Brut acquisition accelerates NASDAQ's growth initiatives and enhances NASDAQ's competitive position.  Effective September 1, Brut began to report its trades to the NASDAQ Market Center.  NASDAQ and Brut customers will benefit from a deeper pool of liquidity, enhanced execution quality and better depth-of-book information.  NASDAQ customers will also be able to access multiple destinations outside the NASDAQ Market Center through the use of Brut's sophisticated, smart-order router.
st
 
Bob Greifeld, president and chief executive officer of NASDAQ, stated, "This transaction is an important milestone for NASDAQ's growth plans and NASDAQ and Brut customers are the beneficiaries, with deeper liquidity, better connectivity and the addition of new execution services. As a result, we believe this transaction will complement our strategy to provide lower cost and more efficient trading, contributing to our mission to be the number one stock market for trading U.S. stocks."
Throughout 2004, NASDAQ has delivered its customers a trading platform with competitive pricing, FIX connectivity, new order types and complete anonymity.  With the Brut transaction, NASDAQ will continue to be the only neutral destination for trading NASDAQ-listed stocks.  As an unconflicted trading destination, NASDAQ offers deep pools of liquidity without competing with its customers for institutional order flow.
 
"The Brut ECN, like NASDAQ, has focused on innovation and attention to customer service.  As a result of this transaction, we will maximize our services to become a one-stop venue with deeper liquidity, advanced order routing and connectivity on one competitive low-cost platform.  We look forward to a smooth and efficient integration," added Mr. Greifeld.
 
The integration of Brut's services into NASDAQ will be seamless to both NASDAQ and Brut's customers.  Brut will continue to operate under the Brut name as a broker-dealer; however, it will operate as a part of The NASDAQ Stock Market.Brian Hyndman will continue to be President of Brut and will become Senior Vice President of NASDAQ Transaction Services, reporting directly to Chris Concannon, Executive Vice President of NASDAQ Transaction Services.William O'Brien will remain Chief Operating Officer of Brut reporting directly to David Warren, NASDAQ's Chief Financial Officer.
 
 
 
In connection with the transaction, NASDAQ and SunGard entered into a hosting and multi-year processing agreement for SunGard to provide a real-time securities clearance and settlement system for certain NASDAQ trades.
 
NASDAQ is the largest U.S. electronic stock market.  With approximately 3,300 companies, it lists more companies and, on average, trades more shares per day than any other U.S. market.  It is home to companies that are leaders across all areas of business including technology, retail, communications, financial services, transportation, media and biotechnology. NASDAQ is the primary market for trading NASDAQ-listed stocks. For more information about NASDAQ, visit the NASDAQ Web site at http://www.nasdaq.com or the NASDAQ Newsroom at http://www.nasdaq.com/newsroom/
SM
 
About Brut
 
Brut, LLC owns and operates the Brut ECN, an alternative trading system that offers a low-cost execution utility for the trading community without sacrificing technology, execution quality or customer service. Brut offers its customers participation in the NASDAQ market center for increased liquidity and enhanced order routing capabilities, and allows institutional clients to use the Brut Sponsorship Program to trade electronically while still maintaining their traditional brokerage relationships. (Member SIPC, NASD, CSE, BSE. 55 Broadway, 9th Floor, New York, NY 10006)
 
About SunGard
 
SunGard is a global leader in integrated software and processing solutions,
primarily for financial services. SunGard also helps information-dependent enterprises of all types to ensure the continuity of their business. SunGard serves more than 20,000 customers in more than 50 countries, including the world's 50 largest financial services companies. SunGard (NYSE:SDS) is a member of the S&P 500 and has annual revenue of $3 billion Visit SunGard at www.sungard.com
 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
The matters described herein may contain forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties or other factors beyond the control of The NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc. (the "Company"), which could cause actual results to differ materially from historical results, performance or other expectations and from any opinions or statements expressed or implied with respect to future periods. These factors include, but are not limited to, the Company's ability to implement its strategic initiatives, economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, government and industry regulation, interest rate risk, U.S. and global competition, and other factors detailed in the Company's annual report on Form 10-K, and periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to release any revisions to any forward-looking statements.


