FILE:NDAQ/NDAQ-8K-20041122162352.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
                                   
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
                                   
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR  240.14d-2(b))
o
                                   
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
                                   
 
This Current Report on Form 8-K/A ("Form 8-K/A") dated November 22, 2004, amends the Current Report on Form 8-K filed by The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. ("Nasdaq") on September 7, 2004, which disclosed Nasdaq's acquisition of Toll Associates LLC, and related entities, including Brut, LLC, owner and operator of the Brut electronic communication network, from SunGard Data Systems, Inc. The purpose of this Form 8-K/A is to provide financial disclosures required by Item 9.01 (Financial Statements and Exhibits) of Form 8-K with respect to the acquisition of Toll Associates LLC as follows:
 
Section 9  Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Financial Statements of Business Acquired.
(a)
         
 
Attached as Exhibit 99.1 hereto are the audited consolidated financial statements of Toll Associates LLC as of and for the year ended December 31, 2003, which includes the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of financial condition of Toll Associates LLC as of June 30, 2004, the related unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss) and cash flows for the six months ended June 30, 2004 and 2003 and the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of changes in member's equity as of June 30, 2004.
 
Pro Forma Financial Information.
(b)
        
 
Attached hereto is the:
 
Unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet as of June 30, 2004 and the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income for the six months ended June 30, 2004.
 - 
                 
Unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2003.
 - 
                 
Notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements.
 - 
                 
 
Exhibits
(c)
         
 
Exhibit 23.1  Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP.
 
s equity as of June 30, 2004.
Exhibit 99.1  Consolidated Financial Statements and Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm, -Toll Associates LLC  as of and for the year ended December 31, 2003, and the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of financial condition of Toll Associates LLC as of June 30, 2004, the related unaudited condensed consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income (loss) and cash flows for the six months ended June 30, 2004 and 2003 and the unaudited condensed consolidated statement of changes in member'
 
annual report on Form 10-K and periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission.   Except for Nasdaq's ongoing obligations to disclose material information under the Federal securities laws, Nasdaq undertakes no obligation to release publicly any revisions to any forward-looking statements, to report events or to report the occurrence of unanticipated events. For any forward-looking statements contained in any document, Nasdaq claims the protection of the safe harbor for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
This Form 8-K/A and attachments hereto contain forward-looking statements that are subject to known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause actual results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements were based on various factors and were derived utilizing numerous assumptions and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Most of these factors are difficult to predict accurately and are generally beyond Nasdaq's control. You should consider the areas of risk described in connection with any forward-looking statements that may be made herein. Readers are cautioned not to place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements and to carefully review the risk factors and other information detailed in Nasdaq's
 
Independent valuation specialists assisted Nasdaq management in determining the fair values of the net assets acquired and the intangible assets.  The work performed by the independent valuation specialists has been considered by management in determining the fair values reflected in these unaudited pro forma
condensed combined financial statements.   The valuation is based on the actual assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date and management's consideration of the independent valuation work.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented for informational purposes only.  The pro forma data is not necessarily indicative of what Nasdaq's financial position or results of operations actually would have been had Nasdaq completed the acquisition at the dates indicated.  In addition, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not purport to project the future financial position or operating results of the combined company.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
See Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements.
 
See Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements.
Toll Adjusted
 
 
See Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements.
(in thousands, except per share amounts)
 
 
See Notes to Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements.
Notes to the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Financial Statements of The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. ("Nasdaq").
 
Note 1.  Basis of Presentation
On September 7, 2004, Nasdaq completed its acquisition of Toll Associates LLC ("Toll") and affiliated entities from SunGard Data Systems Inc. ("SunGard") pursuant to the terms of a purchase agreement dated May 25, 2004 and amended as of September 7, 2004 (the "Purchase Agreement").  Toll is a holding company that owns a 99.8% interest in Brut, LLC ("Brut"), the owner and operator of the Brut electronic communication network, a broker-dealer registered pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  Toll also owns a 100.0% interest in Brut Inc. ("Brut Inc."), which owns the remaining 0.2% interest in Brut and serves as its manager pursuant to an operating agreement.  Brut also owns Brut Europe Limited ("Brut Europe"), a wholly-owned subsidiary set up to generate a European subscriber base, which is currently inactive.  Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, Nasdaq paid total cash consideration of $190.0 million, which is subject to certain post-closing adjustments.
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements are presented to illustrate the effects of the acquisition on the historical financial position and operating results of Nasdaq and Toll.  The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income combines the historical consolidated statements of income of Nasdaq and Toll, giving effect to the acquisition as if it had occurred on January 1, 2003.  The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet combines the historical consolidated balances sheets of Nasdaq and Toll, giving effect to the acquisition as if it had occurred on June 30, 2004.
 
and the remainder of $183.7 million was recorded as goodwill of $141.7 million and intangible assets of $42.0 million.  Independent valuation specialists assisted Nasdaq management in determining the fair values of the net assets acquired and the intangible assets.  The work performed by the independent valuation specialists has been considered by management in determining the fair values reflected in these unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements.  The valuation is based on the actual assets acquired and liabilities assumed at the acquisition date and management's consideration of the independent valuation work.
Nasdaq prepared the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information using the purchase method of accounting with Nasdaq treated as the acquirer.  Accordingly, Nasdaq's cost to acquire Toll of $190.0 million (which is subject to certain post-closing adjustments) has been allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed of $6.3 million
 
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented for informational purposes only.  The pro forma data is not necessarily indicative of what Nasdaq's financial position or results of operations actually would have been had Nasdaq completed the acquisition at the dates indicated.  In addition, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not purport to project the future financial position or operating results of the combined company.
 
Note 2.  Reclassifications
Certain reclassifications have been made to the Toll historical balances in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income and balance sheets in order to conform to the Nasdaq presentation.
 
Note 3.  Purchase Price
Nasdaq purchased Toll for a total consideration of $190.0 million in cash, subject to post-closing adjustments.  In addition, Nasdaq incurred direct costs of $3.3 million associated with the acquisition.
 
For the purpose of this pro forma analysis, the above estimated purchase price has been preliminarily allocated based on an estimate of the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed.  The final valuation of net assets will be completed as soon as possible but no later than one year from the acquisition date.  To the extent that Nasdaq's estimates need to be adjusted, Nasdaq will do so.
 
Adjustment to record identifiable intangible assets at fair value.
(1)
 
The following table presents details of the identifiable intangible assets acquired:
 
 
 
Note 4.  Pro Forma Adjustments
 
As of and for the Six Months Ended June 30, 2004
 
I. Adjustments included in the column under the heading "Pro Forma Adjustments" on the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income and adjustments included in the column under the headings "Pro Forma and Other Adjustments" and "Cash and Deposits Purchased" on the Toll Adjusted unaudited pro forma condensed balance sheet primarily relate to the following:
 
(a)   To eliminate transactions between Nasdaq and Toll, which upon completion of the acquisition would be considered intercompany transactions.
 
 
The entries include:
  the elimination of Nasdaq's revenues of $3.4 million from Brut for accessing liquidity on the Nasdaq Market Center;
 - 
  the elimination of Nasdaq's revenues of $0.6 million from Brut for the use of Nasdaq's systems to access the Nasdaq Market Center;
 - 
  the elimination of Brut's cost of revenues for the above intercompany transactions of $4.0 million as Nasdaq no longer charges Brut for accessing liquidity and accessing the Nasdaq Market Center;
 - 
the decrease in Unlisted Trading Privileges ("UTP") Plan revenue sharing of $2.3 million.  Assumes Brut reported trades to the Nasdaq Market Center for the six months ended June 30, 2004 rather than reporting to the Boston Stock Exchange; and
 - 
there were no intercompany receivables or payables between Nasdaq and Toll as of June 30, 2004.
 - 
 
(b)   To eliminate Nasdaq Market Center order delivery revenues of $1.7 million as Nasdaq no longer charges market participants for delivery of orders to Brut.
(c)   To record the reduction of Brut routing revenues of $1.2 million due to unified pricing for the Nasdaq Market Center and the Brut electronic communication network.
 
(d)   To recognize decrease in cost of revenues ($1.0 million) relating to the renegotiation of a clearing contract with a SunGard affiliate.
 
(e)   To eliminate acquired goodwill ($85.8 million) and acquired intangible assets ($0.9 million).
 
(f)    To eliminate amortization expense of $0.7 million related to the intangible assets recorded by Toll.
 
(g)   To eliminate Toll intercompany receivables ($0.4 million) and payables ($76.0 million) with affiliates as Nasdaq did not acquires these balances.
 
(h)   To record:
(1) cash and deposits purchased of $21.9 million recorded in cash and cash equivalents ($19.9 million) and other current assets ($2.0 million);
 - 
(2) the allocation of the estimated purchase price to reflect the net assets acquired.  See also Note 3 to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements;
 - 
(3) direct costs of $3.3 million associated with the acquisition.  See also Note 3 to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements;
 - 
(4) identifiable intangible assets of $42.0 million;
 - 
(5) goodwill of $141.7 million;
 - 
(6) amortization expense of $2.3 million related to the estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets which are being amortize over their estimate average useful life of 10 years; and
 - 
(7) tax benefit of $0.5 million based on the condensed combined statement of income pro forma adjustments noted above utilizing a 39.225% statutory tax rate.
 - 
 
(i)    To reflect the difference between the book value and the fair value of deferred tax assets ($6.2 million) and liabilities ($0.5 million).
 
(j)    To adjust stockholders' equity for the following:
to record historical Toll common stock and retained earnings balances to additional paid-in capital ($11.6 million decrease); and
 - 
to record the difference of $159.7 million in Nasdaq's investment in Toll ($190.0 million cash paid, subject to post-closing adjustments, plus cash and deposits purchased $21.9 million) and the total of Toll's historical equity accounts (excluding accumulated other comprehensive income).
 - 
 
II. Adjustments included in the column under the heading "Nasdaq Pro Forma Adjustments" relate to the following:
 
(k)   To record:
purchase of Toll (cash paid of $190.0 million, subject to post-closing adjustments, plus cash and deposits purchased of $21.9 million); and
 - 
the elimination of Nasdaq's investment in Toll.
 - 
 
For the Year Ended December 31, 2003
Adjustments included in the column under the heading "Pro Forma Adjustments" primarily relate to the following:
 
(l)    To eliminate transactions between Nasdaq and Toll, which upon completion of the acquisition would be considered intercompany transactions.
 
 
The entries include:
the elimination of Nasdaq's revenues of $7.1 million from Brut for accessing liquidity on the Nasdaq Market Center;
 - 
the elimination of Nasdaq's revenues of $2.1 million from Brut for the use of Nasdaq's systems to access the Nasdaq Market Center;
 - 
the elimination of Brut's cost of revenues for the above intercompany transactions of $9.2 million as Nasdaq no longer charges Brut for accessing liquidity and accessing the Nasdaq Market Center; and
 - 
the decrease in UTP Plan revenue sharing of $1.4 million.  Assumes Brut reported trades to the Nasdaq Market Center for year ended December 31, 2003 rather than reporting to the National and Boston Stock Exchanges.
 - 
(m)  To eliminate Nasdaq Market Center order delivery revenues of $1.9 million as Nasdaq no longer charges market participants for delivery of orders to Brut.
 
(n)   To record the reduction of Brut routing revenues of $1.4 million due to unified pricing for the Nasdaq Market Center and the Brut electronic communication network.
 
(o)   To recognize decrease in cost of revenues ($2.0 million) relating to the renegotiation of a clearing contract with a SunGard affiliate.
 
(p)   To eliminate amortization expense of $1.2 million related to the intangible assets recorded by Toll.
 
(q)   To record:
amortization expense of $4.8 million related to the estimated fair value of identifiable intangible assets which are being amortize over their estimate average useful life of 10 years; and
 - 
increase in tax benefit of $1.3 million based on the condensed combined statement of income pro forma adjustments noted above utilizing a 39.225% statutory tax rate.
 - 

Exhibit 23.1
 
 
We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 333-70992, 333-72852, 333-76064, 333-106945, and 333-110602 of The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. on Form S-8 of our report dated November 16, 2004, relating to the consolidated financial statements of Toll Associates LLC as of and for the year ended December 31, 2003, appearing in the Current Report on Form 8-K/A of The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. filed on November 22, 2004.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM
 
To the Members of
Toll Associates LLC
 
We have audited the accompanying consolidated statement of financial condition of Toll Associates LLC and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31, 2003, and the related consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss, cash flows and changes in member's equity, for the year then ended.  These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit.
 
We conducted our audit in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Toll Associates LLC and subsidiaries at December 31, 2003, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the year then ended in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
 
 
TOLL ASSOCIATES LLC
 
Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm
 
Consolidated Financial Statements
 
As of and for the year ended December 31, 2003 and
As of June 30, 2004 and the six months ended
June 30, 2004 and 2003 (unaudited)
TOLL ASSOCIATES LLC
 
TABLE OF CONTENTS
 
TOLL ASSOCIATES LLC
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
 
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
TOLL ASSOCIATES LLC
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
 
 
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
TOLL ASSOCIATES LLC
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
 
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
TOLL ASSOCIATES LLC
 
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN MEMBER'S EQUITY
 
 
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
TOLL ASSOCIATES LLC
 
NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 AND SIX MONTHS ENDED JUNE 30, 2004 AND 2003 (UNAUDITED)
 
ORGANIZATION AND DESCRIPTION OF THE BUSINESS
1.
                     
 
is also a holding company that owns a 99.8% interest in Brut, LLC ("Brut").  Toll also has a 100.0% interest in Brut Inc. ("Brut Inc."), which owns the remaining 0.2% interest in Brut and serves as Brut's manager pursuant to an operating agreement.  Brut also owns Brut Europe Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary set up to generate a European subscriber base which is currently inactive.
The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Toll Associates LLC and its subsidiaries  (collectively "Toll").  Toll is a wholly-owned subsidiary of SunGard Data Systems Inc. ("SunGard") and
 
Brut, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company, is a registered broker-dealer and operator of The BRUT ECN System (the "System"), and electronic communications network ("ECN") that allows its subscribers to enter orders for display, view and execution against the orders entered by other subscribers, view the trading interest of other market participants, and route orders through the System to trade with said participants.  Subscribers primarily use the System for transactions activity in securities traded on The Nasdaq Stock Market ("Nasdaq"), although the System also offers similar capabilities with respect to securities traded on the New York and American Stock Exchanges.  Brut, LLC and Brut Europe Limited, are collectively referred to herein as "Brut."
 
Brut charges transaction fees to subscribers and other market participants that execute transactions against System orders, or for subscriber orders which route through the System for execution against other market participants.  Transaction fees are determined on a per share basis and are billed monthly, net of any rebates.  Brut clears and settles all trading activities that take place on the System except for institutional trades and DOT-processed listed securities.
 
Brut participates, through the National Stock Exchange and the Boston Stock Exchange, in the Unlisted Trading Privilege Plan, which is a joint program between and among Nasdaq and all regional stock exchanges.  Under the plan, the revenue collected from the sale of quote and trade information to market data vendors is distributed to plan members based on the amount of market data contributed to each member.
 
Subsequent to December 31, 2003, Toll Associates LLC and subsidiaries was acquired by Nasdaq (see Note 11).
 
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
2.
                     
 
The consolidated financial statements are prepared in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America, which requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting period.  Actual results could differ materially from those estimates.
 
All material intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation.
- Transaction fees from securities transactions are recorded on trade date.  Included in transaction fees is $24,354,736 for participant orders which were routed through the System for execution against other markets participants.  The execution charges from other market participants are recorded in clearance and execution fees and approximated fees earned for the year ended December 31, 2003.  Also included in transaction fees is $1,547,176 from institutional investors which are shown net of repatriated commissions to Sponsoring Broker-Dealers.  Sponsoring Broker-Dealers are identified by the relevant institutional investor as the broker-dealer sponsor of identified transaction activity.
Transaction Fees
 
 Market data revenue are recorded as earned.  Revenue is based on both share and trade volumes.
Market data revenue
 
 Toll considers all money market instruments and highly liquid debt instruments purchased with an original maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents.  At December 31, 2003, cash equivalents represent investments in money market funds.
Cash and Cash Equivalents
 
- Furniture and equipment are being depreciated on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of three to five years.  Leasehold improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over the lesser of their estimated useful lives or the life of the lease.
Furniture, Equipment and Leasehold Improvements
 
- Toll and its eligible subsidiaries file all applicable U.S. federal and state and local income tax returns. Toll uses the asset and liability method required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes", to provide income taxes on all transactions recorded in the consolidated financial statements. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined based on differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and the tax basis of existing assets and liabilities (i.e., temporary differences) and are measured at the enacted rates that will be in effect when these differences are realized. If necessary, a valuation allowance is established to reduce deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized.
Income Taxes
 
 The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements have been prepared by Toll Associates LLC pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding interim financial reporting. Accordingly, the unaudited interim condensed consolidated financial statements do not include all of the information and footnotes required by generally accepted accounting principles for complete financial statements and should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements and related notes thereto. The accompanying unaudited condensed consolidated financial statements reflect all adjustments that are, in the opinion of management, necessary for a fair presentation of results for the interim periods presented. Preparing financial statements requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts that are reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying disclosures. Although these estimates are based on management's best knowledge of current events and actions that Toll may undertake in the future, actual results may be different from the estimates. The results of operations for the six months ended June 30, 2004 are not necessarily indicative of the results to be expected for any future period or the full fiscal year.
Unaudited Interim Financial Information
 
- In May 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS No. 150, "Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity," which establishes standards for how an issuer classifies and measures certain financial instruments with characteristics of both liabilities and equity. Financial instruments that are within the scope of this statement, which previously were often classified as equity, must now be classified as liabilities. This statement is effective for financial instruments entered into or modified
New Accounting Pronouncements
May 31, 2003 and otherwise is effective at the beginning of the first interim period beginning after June 15, 2003. Adoption of SFAS No. 150 did not have an effect on Toll's consolidated financial position and results of operations.
after
 
In January 2003, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 46, "Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities" ("FIN 46"), which clarifies the application of Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51, "Consolidated Financial Statements," to certain entities in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entity to finance its activities without additional subordinated financial support from other parties ("variable interest entities").  Variable interest entities ("VIEs") are required to be consolidated by their primary beneficiaries if they do not effectively disperse risks among parties involved.  Under FIN 46, the primary beneficiary of a VIE is the party that absorbs a majority of the entity's expected losses, receives a majority of its expected residual returns, or both, as a result of holding variable interests.  FIN 46 also requires new disclosures about VIEs.   The adoption of FIN 46 did not have an effect on Toll's consolidated financial position and result of operations.
 
In October 2003, the FASB agreed to defer the effective date of FIN 46 for arrangements with VIEs existing prior to February 1, 2003 to fiscal periods ending after December 15, 2003.  Subsequently in December 2003, the FASB issued a revision of FIN 46 ("FIN 46R"), which replaces FIN 46, to modify FIN 46 to address certain technical corrections and implementation issues that have arisen.  The adoption of FIN 46R does not have an effect on Toll's consolidated financial position and result of operations.
 
In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45 "Guarantor's Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others" ("FIN 45"). FIN 45 provides accounting and disclosure requirements for certain guarantees. The interpretation requires certain guarantees to be recorded at fair value versus the current practice of recording a liability only when a loss is probable and reasonably estimable. The accounting provisions of FIN 45 were effective for certain guarantees issued or modified beginning January 1, 2003. Adoption of this interpretation did not have an effect on Toll's consolidated financial position and result of operations.
 
RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
3.
                     
 
Toll pays for the utilization and development of the System to SunGard Trading Systems ("STS").   Expenses related to STS for the year were $1,777,197 and are included in systems and related support fees in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss with a related payable of $54,600 recorded in payables to affiliates in the consolidated statement of financial condition.
 
Toll pays for the utilization of the Phase3 clearance system to SunGard Financial Systems ("SFS").  SFS expenses for the year were $10,260,000 and are included in clearance and execution fees in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss with a related payable of $895,000 recorded in payables to affiliates in the consolidated statement of financial condition.
 
In 2003, Toll purchased computer equipment from SunGard Trading System VAR, LLC. and STS for $167,084 and $975,968, respectively.
 
Toll pays transaction fees to SunGard Global Execution Services ("SGES") for the routing of share volumes to the New York Stock Exchange.  For the year ended December 31, 2003, $145,264 of expenses related to SGES services were included in clearance and execution fees in the consolidated statements of income and comprehensive income.  At December 31, 2003, Toll had payables related to
expenses of $4,103 in clearance and execution fees payable in the consolidated statement of financial condition.
these
 
Toll pays SunGard Business Intergration ("SBI") for services related to trade reporting to the Cincinnati and Boston Stock Exchanges.  For the year ended December 31, 2003, $158,563 of expenses related to SBI were included in clearance and execution fees in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss.  At December 31, 2003, Toll had payables related to these expenses of $15,000 in payables to affiliates in the consolidated statement of financial condition.
 
Toll pays Automated Securities Clearance, LTD for hosting services.  At December 31, 2003, Toll had payables related to these expenses of $11,208,308 in payables to affiliates in the consolidated statement of financial condition.
 
Certain affiliates paid general, administrative and other expenses on behalf of Toll.  For the year ended December 31, 2003, $2,201,530 were included in other expenses in the consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive loss with related payables of $84,313 recorded in payables to affiliates in the consolidated statement of financial condition.
 
Certain costs in connection with SunGard's acquisition of Brut were incurred by various SunGard entities.  At December 31, 2003, Toll had payables related to these costs of $22,057,748 in payables to affiliates in the consolidated statement of financial condition.
 
In August 2002, Toll entered into a $41,950,100 note payable with SunGard Investment Ventures, Inc.  The note incurs interest at a rate of 4.75% per year and includes repayment terms of $20,975,050 plus interest in ten equal annual installments and a balloon payment of $20,975,050 plus interest due on August 20, 2012.  During 2003, principal amount of $2,097,005 was repaid by an affiliate and a corresponding payable to affiliate was recorded.  Interest expense on this note was $2,087,624 during the year ended December 31, 2003 and $946,499 and $996,315 for the six months ended June 30, 2004 and 2003, respectively.  The outstanding note balance is recorded in note payable with affiliate in the consolidated statement of financial condition.
 
Receivables from affiliates relate to payments made by Toll for taxes, business acquisition and other operating expenses.
 
All affiliates referred to above are wholly-owned subsidiaries of SunGard.
 
4.
GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS
                     
 
Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price and related costs over the value assigned to the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets of businesses acquired. Intangible assets are primarily comprised of customer lists with an estimated average useful life of 36 months. As a result of the adoption of SFAS 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets" ("SFAS 142") on January 1, 2002, goodwill is no longer amortized, but instead is tested for impairment at least annually.  The Company evaluates the recoverability of goodwill and takes into account events or circumstances that warrant revised estimates of useful lives for intangible assets or that indicate impairment exists.  No impairment was identified as a result of the impairment testing performed for the year ended December 31, 2003.
 
As of December 31, 2003, goodwill was $70,954,289 and included an increase of $29,934,380 related to the Brut earnout (see Note 6).  Intangible assets are comprised mostly of customer lists totaling $1,423,000 with an original cost basis of $3,000,000 and accumulated amortization of $1,577,000 at
December 31, 2003.  Intangible asset amortization expense was $1,200,000 for the year ended December 31, 2003 and $664,279 for the six months ended June 30, 2004.
 
.
5
                     
ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE LOSS
 
Accumulated other comprehensive loss represents cumulative gains that are not reflected in earnings.  The components of accumulated other comprehensive loss are as follows:
 
 
NET CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS AND MEMBER'S EQUITY
6.
                     
 
Brut is subject to the Securities and Exchange Commission's Uniform Net Capital Rule (the "Rule"), which requires the maintenance of minimum net capital.  Brut has elected to use the basic method permitted by the Rule, which requires that Brut maintain minimum net capital equal to the greater of $100,000 or 6 2/3% of aggregate indebtedness, as defined.  The Rule also requires that aggregate indebtedness not exceed 15 times net capital.  At December 31, 2003, Brut had net capital of $9,448,423, which was $8,597,854 in excess of its required net capital of $850,569.
 
Brut has an agreement with its clearing broker that enables Brut to include certain assets as allowable assets in its Net Capital Computation.
 
In August 2002, SunGard re-acquired 100.0% ownership in Brut with the aim of enhancing the technology platform to accelerate market share gains.  The buy-out included an upfront payment and a 2-year earnout aggregating not more than $55,000,000 based upon achieving certain thresholds.  During 2003, the earnout totaled $29,934,380.  During the six month period ended June 30, 2004, additional earnout payments were made totaling $15,000,000. The expected remaining earnout for 2004 is $10,000,000.
 
In January 2003, Brut received a $6,000,000 capital contribution from SunGard.
 
GUARANTEES, COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
7.
                     
 
A consolidated subsidiary of Toll provides guarantees to securities clearinghouses and exchanges under their standard membership agreements, which require members to guarantee the performance of other members.  If a member becomes unable to satisfy its obligations to the clearinghouses, other members would be required to meet its shortfalls.  To mitigate these performance risks, the exchanges and clearinghouses often require members to post collateral as well as meet certain minimum financial standards.  Toll's maximum potential liability under these arrangements cannot be quantified.  However, the potential for Toll to be required to make payments under these arrangements is unlikely.  Accordingly, no contingent liability is recorded in the consolidated statement of financial condition for these arrangements.
Brokerage Activities 
- - In the normal course of business, Toll may be named as a defendant in various lawsuits and may be involved in certain investigations and proceedings. Some of these matters may involve claims of substantial amounts.  It is the opinion of management, after consultation with outside counsel, that there are no matters pending against Toll that could have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of Toll at December 31, 2003 or its results of operations for the year then ended.
Litigation
 
- - As of December 31, 2003, Toll has non-cancelable operating leases through 2007 for office space.  At December 31, 2003, future minimum rental commitments under these leases are as follows:
Leases
 
 
The leases contain provisions for escalations based on certain costs incurred by the lessor.  For the year ended December 31, 2003, occupancy expenses totaled $349,521 and were included in other in the consolidated statements of income and other comprehensive income.
 
- Toll generates substantially all of its revenue from transaction fees charged to market participants that either execute transactions against buy or sell orders in the System or have transactions routed outside the System for execution, and from market data revenue collected through its participation in the Unlisted Trading Privilege plan.  As a result, Toll's revenue could vary based on transaction volume and transaction fee levels, and on continued participation in the Unlisted Trading Privilege plan.
Risks and Uncertainties
 
EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
8.
                     
 
Employees of Toll are eligible to participate in an affiliate's 401(k) plan under which they can contribute up to 15% of pre-tax compensation.  Toll matches 100% of the first 4% of employee pre-tax contributions.  All employer provided contributions are subject to change in future years.   Toll's total contribution expense was $152,191 for the year ended December 31, 2003.
 
9.
FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
                     
 
Substantially all of the Toll's financial assets and liabilities are carried at fair value or amounts that approximate fair value.
 
10.
INCOME TAXES
            
 
The income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2003 consists of the following amounts:
 
Toll has net deferred tax assets in the amount of $6,681,298 at December 31, 2003.  This balance consists primarily of book versus tax differences related to goodwill amortization.
 
11.
SUBSEQUENT EVENT
              
 
On September 7, 2004, Nasdaq acquired Toll from SunGard. Pursuant to the terms of the Purchase Agreement, Nasdaq paid total cash consideration of $190 million, which is subject to certain post-closing adjustments.  As part of the acquisition, all intercompany receivables, payables and debt were forgiven by SunGard and its affiliates.
 
******


