FILE:NDAQ/NDAQ-8K-20050209172407.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
 
 
Table of Contents
Table of Contents
 
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
 
On February 7, 2005, the Management Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors ("Nasdaq Board") of The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. ("Nasdaq") approved a form of letter agreement providing enhanced severance to certain Nasdaq executive officers ("Letter Agreement") terminated in connection with a Nasdaq change in control. The following summary is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the form of Letter Agreement a copy of which is filed as an exhibit to this report. The terms of the Letter Agreement, which are subject to the approval of the Nasdaq Board and to execution by the executives, will be entered into with executive vice presidents ("executives"). Six current executives would be eligible to enter into such Letter Agreements. Nasdaq will not enter into a Letter Agreement with either its Chief Executive Officer and President or one executive vice president as they will remain subject to the terms of their existing employment arrangements.
 
A change in control for purposes of the Letter Agreement generally consists of the first to occur of the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Under the Letter Agreement, if an executive is terminated by Nasdaq without cause or the executive resigns for "Good Reason" (as defined in the Letter Agreement), during (x) the 180 day period immediately prior to a change in control (if the executive can reasonably demonstrate that the termination or Good Reason event was at the request of a third party that does thereafter effect a change in control of Nasdaq) or (y) during the one year period after the change in control, then he or she is entitled to the following payments and benefits from Nasdaq:
 
 
 
 
Table of Contents
An executive is not entitled to benefits under the Letter Agreement if his or her termination is on account of death or disability.
 
The Letter Agreement does not change the terms of the executive's outstanding equity awards (which generally fully vest upon an executive's termination following a change in control) or retirement plan benefits, which continue to be governed by the terms of the respective arrangements. In addition, the Letter Agreement does not provide for indemnification of any "golden parachute" excise taxes that may be payable by an executive under Section 4999 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended in connection with the change in control. Rather, the Letter Agreement provides if any payments or benefits to an executive would be subject to a golden parachute excise tax under Section 4999 payments and/or benefits to the executive will be reduced or "cut back" so that no such golden parachute excise tax will be due.
 
The Letter Agreement contains restrictive covenants, including requiring the executive to maintain the confidentiality of Nasdaq's proprietary information and to refrain from disparaging Nasdaq. The Letter Agreement also prohibits the executive from soliciting Nasdaq employees or rendering services for a competing entity for a period of one year following termination in connection with a change in control. To receive severance benefits under the Letter Agreement, the executive must execute a general release of claims against Nasdaq. In addition, payments and benefits under the Letter Agreement are generally subject to discontinuation in the event an executive breaches the restrictive covenants.
 
The information set forth under "Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure" is intended to be furnished pursuant to Item 7.01. Such information shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
ITEM 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
The following exhibit is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
 
Table of Contents
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
DRAFT
 
 
February , 2005
    
 
[Name]
[Address]
[City, State ZIP]
 
Dear [Name]:
 
As you may be aware, the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors of The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. ("") has recently approved a new policy to provide enhanced severance payments and benefits to all Nasdaq Executive Vice Presidents in the event of certain terminations of employment connected with a change in control of Nasdaq. The terms herein are in recognition of the importance to Nasdaq of avoiding the distraction to key personnel that may occur in connection with a potential or actual change in control of Nasdaq. This letter agreement sets forth your rights under the new policy.
Nasdaq
 
Payments and benefits provided by this letter agreement are in lieu of any payments or benefits to which you may be entitled under any other Nasdaq severance program. Furthermore, this is not a contract of employment and nothing contained herein shall confer on you any right to be retained, in any position, as an employee, consultant or officer of Nasdaq or any of its affiliates (the ""), and you shall remain an employee-at-will.
Companies
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
consolidation of any direct or indirect subsidiary of Nasdaq with any other corporation, other than (A) a merger or consolidation that would result in the Voting Securities outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into Voting Securities of the surviving or parent entity) more than 50% of Nasdaq's then outstanding Voting Securities or more than 50% of the combined voting power of such surviving or parent entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation or (B) a merger or consolidation effected to implement a recapitalization of Nasdaq (or similar transaction) in which no Person, directly or indirectly, acquired more than 50% of Nasdaq's then outstanding Voting Securities (not including any securities acquired directly (or through an underwriter) from Nasdaq or the Companies); or
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Change in Control shall be deemed to occur as a result of (A) the redemption of Series B Preferred Stock of Nasdaq held by NASD upon the Securities Exchange Commission's approval of Nasdaq's application for registration as a national securities exchange pursuant to Section 19(a) of the Exchange Act or (B) any other transaction, sale, or other disposition or event which, following such transaction, sale, or other disposition or event, results in the NASD owning less than 50% of the Voting Securities and which would not otherwise constitute a Change in Control pursuant to clauses (i) through (iv) above.
not
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are terminated by Nasdaq without Cause, and such termination is not an Anticipatory Termination or does not occur within the 12 months following a Change in Control, then Nasdaq's regular severance policy (""), including health benefit continuation, shall apply in lieu of this Section 3. If any such termination is later deemed an Anticipatory Termination, the terms of this Section 3 shall apply, but the payments and benefits provided in this Section 3 shall be offset and reduced for any payments or benefits you have already received under the Regular Severance Policy.
Regular Severance Policy
 
 
 
Control a lump sum cash payment equal to the sum of (i) any unpaid Award which has been allocated or awarded to you for a completed Plan Year and (ii) 100% of your Individual Target Award for the Plan Year in which your Anticipatory Termination occurs, or if such Individual Target Award has not yet been established for such Plan Year, 100% of your Individual Target Award for the Plan Year prior to the year in which the Anticipatory Termination occurs.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
performed, or present or former employees of the Companies so long as such requests do not unreasonably interfere with any other job or important personal activity in which you are engaged. Nasdaq agrees to reimburse you for all reasonable out-of-pocket costs you incur in connection therewith.
 
 
 
 
The information described above shall be presumed to constitute "Proprietary Information," except to the extent that the same information: (i) was known to you prior to your employment with the Companies as evidenced by written records in your possession prior to such disclosure; (ii) was lawfully disclosed to you following the end of your employment with the Companies by a third party under no obligation of confidentiality; and (iii) is generally known and available to all persons in the securities industry.
 
 
 
agreement) between Nasdaq and customers or suppliers of Nasdaq. For purposes of this letter agreement, "" shall mean (x) any national securities exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, (y) any electronic communications network or (z) any other entity that engages in substantially the same business as Nasdaq, in each case in North America or in any other location in which Nasdaq operates.
Competitive Business
 
 
 
distributees, devisees and legatees. If you die while any amounts would be payable to you hereunder had you continued to live, all such amounts, unless otherwise provided herein, shall be paid in accordance with the terms of this letter agreement to such person or persons appointed in writing by you to receive such amounts or, if no person is so appointed, to your estate.
 
 
Please sign and date this letter agreement and return the signed copy to:.
                                                     
 
Sincerely,
 
[Name]
[Title]
 
 
EXHIBIT A
 
 
Reference is made to that certain Change in Control Severance Agreement (the "") entered into as of February , 2005, by and between The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. ("") and you. Capitalized terms not defined herein shall have the meaning ascribed to such terms in the CIC Agreement.
CIC Agreement
    
Nasdaq
 
, as set forth in the CIC Agreement (which is incorporated herein by reference as if set forth fully herein and made a part hereof), the receipt, sufficiency and adequacy of which is hereby acknowledged by your signature below, you agree as follows:
FOR GOOD AND VALUABLE CONSIDERATION
 
basis whatsoever regarding your status, pay, position, or title while employed by the Releasees. Excluded from this Release are claims which cannot be lawfully waived, including the right to file an administrative charge of discrimination with federal or state agencies. You are, however, waiving all rights to monetary recovery in connection with any such charge.
 
You specifically promise not to sue the Releasees in any forum for any of the above-mentioned claims, except that you may bring a lawsuit to challenge the validity of this letter agreement under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act ("ADEA"). If you violate this covenant, you will be required to pay the Releasees' defense costs, including its reasonable fees; alternatively, at Nasdaq's option, Nasdaq's remaining obligations to pay severance money and/or benefits under the CIC Agreement shall cease, and you will be required to repay to Nasdaq upon demand all but $100.00 (one hundred dollars) of the payments and other benefits you received under the CIC Agreement. The above payment/repayment provisions do not apply in the event you sue the Releasees under the ADEA.
 
 
The parties acknowledge that this, along with the CIC Agreement, and any award agreements you entered into under the Equity Plan, is our entire agreement. We further acknowledge that the headings in this Release are for convenience only and have no bearing on the meaning of this Release.
 
 
 
 
If you agree to the foregoing, please sign the enclosed copy of this Release in the space provided below and return it to me.
 
 
By signing below, I, , certify that I have read, carefully reviewed, fully understand, and agree to all the provisions of this Release, which, along with the CIC Agreement, any award agreements I entered into under the Equity Plan sets forth the entire agreement and understanding between Nasdaq and me. I acknowledge that I have not relied upon any representation or statement, written or oral, not set forth in such documents.
                                        
 
 
 


