FILE:NDAQ/NDAQ-8K-20051026164701.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
The information set forth under "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" is intended to be furnished pursuant to Item 2.02. Such information, including the Exhibit attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of a press release of The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. ("Nasdaq"), dated October 26, 2005, reporting Nasdaq's financial results for the third quarter of 2005.
 
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
The following exhibit is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: October 26, 2005
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
New York, N.Y.The NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc. ("NASDAQ
"; Nasdaq: NDAQ), today reported net income of $17.8 million, or $0.16 per diluted share, for the third quarter 2005, an increase of $23.3 million when compared to a net loss of $5.5 million, or $(0.08) per diluted share, for the third quarter 2004. Net income for the quarter increased 27.1%, or $3.8 million from net income of $14.0 million, or $0.13 per diluted share, for the second quarter of 2005.
 
Gross margin, which represents total revenues less cost of revenues, was $130.6 million for the third quarter 2005, an increase of 13.8% from $114.8 million in the year-ago period, and up slightly from $130.4 million in the second quarter 2005.
 
NASDAQ's Chief Executive Officer, Robert Greifeld, commented, "NASDAQ's third quarter results represent our fourth consecutive quarter of net income growth. This quarter we continued to demonstrate our ability to innovate through the introduction of new products and services, and remain committed to product enhancements that differentiate NASDAQ from the competition. With the organization focused, offering an array of innovative products, and continuing to improve our operating leverage, we believe that NASDAQ is well-positioned to succeed in a changing competitive landscape."
 
Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Charges Associated with Cost Reduction Program
 
Included in total expenses for the third quarter 2005 are pre-tax charges of $4.5 million as part of NASDAQ's continuing efforts to reduce operating expenses and improve the efficiency of its operations. NASDAQ took charges of $4.2 million in the quarter associated with its technology review, primarily for changing the estimated useful life of certain assets as it migrates to lower cost operating platforms and processes. The remaining $0.3 million charge represents severance taken in the quarter. Including $13.4 million of similar expenses taken in the first half of 2005, NASDAQ has recorded $17.9 million of pre-tax charges through the third quarter 2005.
 
2005 Outlook
 
NASDAQ has again revised upward its expectation of results for the full-year 2005:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The impact of these charges is expected to be in the range of $0.11 to $0.13 per diluted share for the year. These expenses do not include the $7.4 million pre-tax charge related to the debt restructuring in the second quarter 2005.
 
NASDAQ's Chief Financial Officer, David Warren, commented, "NASDAQ continues to benchmark well against our stated cost reduction plan, leading to another upward revision in our 2005 outlook. These expectations include, as we have previously discussed, lower fourth quarter revenues associated with the retirement of a legacy access services product and seasonally higher marketing spending."
 
Mr. Warren concluded, "Looking out to next year, we intend to move forward with our expense reduction plan while simultaneously developing the revenue growth opportunities inherent in NASDAQ's diverse revenue streams. We plan to provide a more specific 2006 outlook when the acquisition of INET is consummated."
 
Q3 Financial Review
 
 Prior to the second quarter 2005, NASDAQ's other execution revenues were reported net of liquidity rebates as NASDAQ does not act as principal. However, in the second quarter 2005, under NASDAQ's new Limitation of Liability Rule, NASDAQ has recorded all execution revenues from transactions executed through the Nasdaq Market Center on a gross basis in revenues and has recorded liquidity rebate payments from transactions executed through the NASDAQ Market Center as cost of
Total Revenues and Gross Margin
revenues as NASDAQ now has certain risk associated with trade execution subject to rule limitations. This change was made on a prospective basis beginning April 1, 2005 as required under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
 
For the third quarter 2005, gross margin was $130.6 million versus $114.8. million in the year ago period and $130.4 million in second quarter 2005.
 
 
 
 Total expenses decreased 19.7% to $99.3 million from $123.7 million in the year-ago quarter and decreased 4.6% from the prior quarter. Expense reductions are being driven by NASDAQ's continuing cost reduction program.
Total Expenses
 
Earnings Per Share
 
As stated above, third quarter earnings (loss) per diluted share were $0.16 versus $(0.08) per diluted share reported for the third quarter of 2004 and $0.13 per diluted share reported for the second quarter 2005. NASDAQ's weighted average shares outstanding used to calculate diluted earnings (loss) per share was 119.4 million in the quarter versus 78.6 million last year and 109.9 million last quarter, due primarily to the dilutive impact of the convertible notes and related warrants issued in April 2005 in connection with the pending acquisition of INET ECN.
 
NASDAQ is the largest electronic screen-based equity securities market in the United States, both in terms of number of listed companies and traded share volume. With approximately 3,200 listed companies, it is home to category-defining companies that are leaders across all areas of business including technology, retail, communications, financial services, transportation, media and biotechnology industries. For more information about NASDAQ, visit the NASDAQ Web site at www.nasdaq.com or the NASDAQ Newsroom
SM
at .
www.nasdaqnews.com
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
The matters described herein may contain forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc. ("NASDAQ") cautions that these statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements include projections which have not been reviewed by independent auditors of NASDAQ. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties or other factors beyond NASDAQ's control. These factors include, but are not limited to, NASDAQ's ability to implement its strategic initiatives, economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, government and industry regulation, interest rate risk, U.S. and global competition, and other factors detailed in NASDAQ's annual report on Form 10-K, and periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, these statements are based on a number of assumptions that are subject to change and do not include results of INET and are subject to change if the INET transaction is consummated. Accordingly, actual results may be materially higher or lower than those projected. The inclusion of such projections herein should not be regarded as a representation by NASDAQ that the projections will prove to be correct. We undertake no obligation to release any revisions to any forward-looking statements.
 
 


