FILE:NDAQ/NDAQ-8K-20050728171313.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition
 
The information set forth under "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" is intended to be furnished pursuant to Item 2.02. Such information, including the Exhibit attached hereto, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
Attached and incorporated herein by reference as Exhibit 99.1 is a copy of a press release of The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. ("Nasdaq"), dated July 28, 2005, reporting Nasdaq's financial results for the second quarter of 2005.
 
ITEM 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(c) Exhibits
 
The following exhibit is furnished as part of this Current Report on Form 8-K.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Date: July 28, 2005
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
New York, N.Y.The NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc. ("NASDAQ"; Nasdaq: NDAQ), today reported net income of $14.0 million, or $0.13 per diluted share, for the second quarter 2005, an increase of $9.2 million when compared to net income of $4.8 million, or $0.02 per diluted share, for the second quarter 2004, and an increase of 10.2% from net income of $12.7 million, or $0.13 per diluted share, for the first quarter 2005.
 
Gross margin, which represents total revenues less cost of revenues, was $130.4 million for the second quarter 2005, an increase of 8.7% from $120.0 million in the year ago period, and an increase of 3.2% from $126.3 million in the first quarter 2005.
 
Included in second quarter 2005 total expenses are $5.9 million of pre-tax charges associated with NASDAQ's continuing efforts to improve efficiencies and reduce operating expenses. Additionally, second quarter 2005 results included a pre-tax charge of $7.4 million related to the restructuring of the $240 million Subordinated Notes in connection with the financing of the INET acquisition. These items, in total, reduced diluted earnings per share by $0.08 for the second quarter 2005.
 
NASDAQ's Chief Executive Officer, Robert Greifeld, commented, "NASDAQ's consecutive string of strong quarters demonstrates the continued execution of our plan to improve profitability. For the third straight quarter we've been able to grow the top line and improve net income. And we've made these improvements while successfully integrating Brut into our operations, which has laid the groundwork for the acquisition of INET. Looking into the second half of the year, NASDAQ remains squarely focused on continuing to strengthen the competitiveness of our business model."
 
Second Quarter 2005 Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
Charges Associated with Cost Reduction Program
 
Included in total expenses for the second quarter 2005 are pre-tax charges of $5.9 million as part of NASDAQ's continuing efforts to reduce operating expenses and improve the efficiency of its operations:
 
 
 
 
Including $7.5 million of similar expenses taken in the first quarter, NASDAQ has recorded $13.4 million of pre-tax charges through the second quarter 2005.
 
2005 Outlook
 
NASDAQ has revised upward its expectation of the following results for the full-year 2005:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The impact of these charges is expected to be in the range of $0.12 to $0.14 per diluted share for the year. These expenses do not include the $7.4 million charge related to the debt restructuring taken this quarter.
 
NASDAQ's Chief Financial Officer, David Warren, commented, "NASDAQ's strong second quarter performance reflects the consistent implementation of our road map initiative to remove costs, streamline processes, and improve productivity. During the quarter we achieved further reductions in ongoing operating expenses, strengthening our operating model, increasing our competitiveness and delivering solid earnings growth. As a result of our positive first half performance we are revising our full-year guidance for 2005."
 
Q2 Financial Review
 
 Beginning with third quarter 2004 results, NASDAQ began reporting cost of revenues and gross margin associated with Brut's operations. Revenues from transactions executed through Brut were recorded on a gross basis in revenues and expenses such as liquidity rebate payments were recorded as cost of revenues as Brut acts as principal. Prior to the second quarter 2005, NASDAQ's other execution revenues were reported net of liquidity rebates as NASDAQ does not act as principal. However, in the second quarter 2005, as a result of NASDAQ's new Limitation of
Total Revenues and Gross Margin
Liability Rule, NASDAQ has recorded all execution revenues from transactions executed through the Nasdaq Market Center on a gross basis in revenues and has recorded liquidity rebate payments from transactions executed through the NASDAQ Market Center as cost of revenues as NASDAQ now has certain risk associated with trade execution subject to rule limitations. This change was made on a prospective basis beginning April 1, 2005 as required under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.
 
For the second quarter 2005, gross margin was $130.4 million versus $120.0 million in the year ago period and $126.3 million in first quarter 2005.
 
 
 
 Total expenses decreased 6.6% to $104.1 million from $111.4 million in the year-ago quarter and increased slightly from the prior quarter. Expense reductions when compared to the year-ago quarter are being driven by NASDAQ's cost reduction program. The expense increase from the prior quarter is driven by the previously noted $7.4 million charge related to the restructuring of the $240 million Subordinated Note, which is included in general and administrative expense in the Condensed Consolidated Statements of Income.
Total Expenses
 
Earnings Per Share
 
As stated above, second quarter earnings per diluted share of $0.13 are favorable when compared to $0.02 per diluted share reported for the second quarter of 2004, and flat with $0.13 per diluted share reported for the first quarter 2005. NASDAQ's weighted average shares outstanding used to calculate diluted earnings per share increased to 109.9 million from 78.9 million last year and 92.6 million last quarter, due primarily to the dilutive impact of the convertible notes and warrants issued in April 2005 in connection with the INET acquisition.
 
NASDAQ is the largest electronic screen-based equity securities market in the United States. With approximately 3,200 companies, it lists more companies and, on average, trades more shares per day than any other U.S. market. It is home to category-defining companies that are leaders across all areas of business including technology, retail, communications, financial services, transportation, media and biotechnology industries. For more information about NASDAQ, visit the NASDAQ Web site at www.nasdaq.com or the NASDAQ Newsroom
SM
at .
www.nasdaqnews.com
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
The matters described herein may contain forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The NASDAQ Stock market, Inc. ("NASDAQ") cautions that these statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Such forward-looking statements include projections which have not been reviewed by independent auditors of NASDAQ. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties or other factors beyond NASDAQ's control. These factors include, but are not limited to, NASDAQ's ability to implement its strategic initiatives, economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, government and industry regulation, interest rate risk, U.S. and global competition, and other factors detailed in NASDAQ's annual report on Form 10-K, and periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, these statements are based on a number of assumptions that are subject to change and generally do not include results of INET and are subject to change if the INET transaction is consummated. Accordingly, actual results may be materially higher or lower than those projected. The inclusion of such projections herein should not be regarded as a representation by NASDAQ that the projections will prove to be correct. We undertake no obligation to release any revisions to any forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 


