FILE:NDAQ/NDAQ-8K-20060420173133.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 20, 2006, The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. ("Nasdaq") issued a press release providing financial guidance for the first quarter of 2006 and for Nasdaq's 2006 fiscal year. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information set forth under "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" is intended to be furnished pursuant to Item 2.02. Such information, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any of Nasdaq's filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
New York, N.Y.The NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc. ("NASDAQ
"; Nasdaq: NDAQ), today reported first quarter 2006 net income of $18.0 million, or $0.16 per diluted share, an increase of 41.7% from $12.7 million or $0.13 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2005, and an increase of 5.3% from $17.1 million or $0.15 per diluted share in the fourth quarter of 2005. These favorable results are primarily driven by contributions from recent acquisitions, improvements in trading market share, and ongoing efforts to improve operational efficiency.
Gross margin, representing total revenues less cost of revenues, was $162.0 million in the first quarter of 2006, an increase of 28.3% from $126.3 million in the year-ago period, and an increase of 16.9% from $138.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2005.
NASDAQ's Chief Executive Officer, Robert Greifeld commented, "NASDAQ's strong first quarter performance demonstrates our ability to simultaneously execute our integration, cost reduction, and top-line growth initiatives. During the quarter we grew gross margin for the sixth consecutive quarter and witnessed market share gains in the trading of all U.S. listed equities. We also announced the creation of the Global Select Market, a listing tier with the world's highest standards, further broadening NASDAQ's value proposition to our issuers. As the premier equity marketplace, NASDAQ is extremely well positioned to compete aggressively and to capitalize on future growth opportunities. Our strong competitive position allows us to take the necessary strategic steps to enhance shareholder value in the rapidly evolving global capital markets."
Recent Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
Charges Associated with NASDAQ's Cost Reduction Program and INET Integration
Included in total expenses for the first quarter 2006 are pre-tax charges of $13.6 million relating to NASDAQ's continuing efforts to reduce operating expenses, improve the efficiency of its operations, and integrate the INET ECN. These charges include:
 
 
Follow-on Offering
To primarily pay down debt incurred to purchase the strategic stake in the London Stock Exchange, NASDAQ intends to proceed with a common stock offering. Information about the offering will be available in a prospectus supplement to be filed shortly with the SEC.
2006 Outlook
NASDAQ is raising guidance for the full-year 2006:
 
 
 
Included in 2006 total expense projections are approximately $65.0 million to $75.0 million of pre-tax charges associated with NASDAQ's continuing efforts to improve efficiencies and reduce operating expenses and to integrate the INET ECN. These charges include:
 
 
 
 
NASDAQ's Chief Financial Officer, David Warren, commented: "NASDAQ's integration of INET is proceeding well, allowing us to move forward as planned with the execution of our core business strategy and our cost reduction plan. Our revised 2006 outlook calls for gross margin and net income growth of approximately 20% and 10%, respectively, from prior year and reflects our confidence in attaining our operating objectives. We are targeting 2006 expenses, excluding charges associated with our debt restructuring, to be in the range of $460.0 million to $470.0 million and remain on track to reduce expenses 20.0% to 25.0% in 2007. We remain focused on continued execution as we finalize exchange status and aggressively pursue our growth strategy."
Q1 Financial Review
 First quarter results include NASDAQ's first full quarter of INET operations. First quarter results also include the impact of NASDAQ's Limitation of Liability Rule, which became effective on April 1, 2005, and required NASDAQ to record all execution revenues from transactions executed through The NASDAQ Market Center on a
Total Revenues and Gross Margin
 
gross basis in revenues and to record liquidity rebate payments from transactions executed through The NASDAQ Market Center as a cost of revenues. This change was made on a prospective basis beginning April 1, 2005.
Gross margin increased 28.3% in the first quarter to $162.0 million, up from $126.3 million in the year-ago quarter, and increased 16.9% from $138.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2005.
Market Services
During the quarter Market Services gross margin increased 44.5% to $102.9 million from prior year.
 
NM  Not meaningful. Denotes variances equal to or greater than 100%
 
 
 
 
Issuer Services
During the quarter Issuer Services revenues increased 7.3% to $58.9 million from prior year.
 
NM  Not meaningful. Denotes variances equal to or greater than 100%
 
 
- Total expenses increased 16.1% to $120.2 million from $103.5 million in the year-ago quarter and increased 14.0% from $105.4 million in the prior quarter. Expenses increased as a result of the continuing INET integration and recent acquisitions. First quarter 2006 results include $13.6 million in net pre-tax charges noted above. First quarter 2005 included $7.5 million of similar charges.
Total Expenses
Earnings Per Share
As stated above, first quarter earnings per diluted share were $0.16 versus $0.15 reported for the fourth quarter of 2005 and $0.13 per diluted share in the year-ago quarter. NASDAQ's weighted average shares outstanding used to calculate diluted earnings per share was 128.0 million in the quarter versus 92.6 million last year and 122.5 million last quarter. The increase from last year is due primarily to the dilutive impact of the convertible notes and related warrants issued in April 2005 as part of the acquisition of INET ECN, and to the shares issued in NASDAQ's February 2006 equity offering.
NASDAQ is the largest electronic equity securities market in the United States. With approximately 3,200 companies, it lists more companies and, on average, trades more shares per day than any other U.S. market. It is home to category-defining companies that are leaders across all areas of business including technology, retail, communications, financial services, transportation, media and biotechnology industries. For more information about NASDAQ, visit the NASDAQ Web site at www.nasdaq.com or the NASDAQ Newsroom
SM
at . NDAQF
www.nasdaqnews.com
 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
The matters described herein may contain forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The NASDAQ Stock market, Inc. cautions that these statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include projections which have not been reviewed by independent auditors of NASDAQ. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties or other factors beyond NASDAQ's control. These factors include, but are not limited to, NASDAQ's ability to implement its strategic initiatives, economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, government and industry regulation, interest rate risk, U.S. and global competition, and other factors detailed in NASDAQ's annual report on Form 10-K, and periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, these statements are based on a number of assumptions that are subject to change. Accordingly, actual results may be materially higher or lower than those projected. The inclusion of such projections herein should not be regarded as a representation by NASDAQ that the projections will prove to be correct. We undertake no obligation to release any revisions to any forward-looking statements.
 
 
 


