FILE:NDAQ/NDAQ-8K-20061221172407.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On December 20, 2006, The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC (Exchange), a wholly owned subsidiary of The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. (Nasdaq), entered into a transitional system and regulatory services agreement with National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. (NASD). As described further below, and until the effectiveness of the transitional system and regulatory services agreement, NASD maintained voting control over Nasdaq through its ownership of the one outstanding share of Nasdaq's Series D Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share.
Under the transitional system and regulatory services agreement, the Exchange will perform certain functions formerly delegated to Nasdaq by NASD through the Plan of Allocation and Delegation of Functions by NASD to Subsidiaries (Delegation Plan). These functions include the operation of certain quotation, transaction execution and trade reporting services for non-Nasdaq-listed securities and the administration of related SEC rules. As it had under the Delegation Plan, NASD will continue to provide certain regulatory functions related to the services provided by the Exchange under the transitional system and regulatory services agreement.
The Exchange shall retain all revenues received, and pay all costs incurred, in connection with the services provided to NASD under the transitional system and regulatory services agreement. The Exchange shall pay NASD for costs associated with NASD's performance of the regulatory functions described above. The agreement is not expected to have any effect on Nasdaq's costs or revenues.
The agreement will terminate upon the earlier of the date on which (i) the Exchange begins to operate, without providing regulatory services to NASD, certain technology that will allow NASD to provide a facility for quoting and trade reporting for non-Nasdaq-listed securities or (ii) NASD commences using alternate technology to provide such a facility.
A copy of the transitional system and regulatory services agreement is attached to this report as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 1.02. Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
Upon the effectiveness of the transitional system and regulatory services agreement as described in Item 1.01 above and the submission to the SEC of a related filing by NASD, Nasdaq was removed as a party to the Delegation Plan. See the description of the Delegation Plan in Item 1.01 above, which is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 3.03. Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders.
As discussed in Item 1.01 above, NASD previously owned the one outstanding share of Nasdaq's Series D Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share, which allowed NASD to maintain voting control over Nasdaq. As a result of the removal of Nasdaq as a party to the Delegation Plan, Nasdaq redeemed for $1.00 the one outstanding share of Series D Preferred Stock that had been issued to NASD.
The removal of Nasdaq from the Delegation Plan also satisfies the remaining condition to Nasdaq beginning to operate as an exchange for trading non-Nasdaq listed securities. Accordingly, as previously disclosed, Nasdaq expects to become operational as an exchange with respect to these securities in the first quarter of 2007.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
THIS TRANSITIONAL SYSTEM AND REGULATORY SERVICES AGREEMENT (the "Agreement") is effective as of December 20, 2006, (the "Effective Date"), by and between National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. ("NASD"), a Delaware corporation having its principal place of business located at 1735 K Street, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20006 and The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC ("Nasdaq"), a Delaware limited liability company having its principal place of business located at One Liberty Plaza, New York, New York, 10006.
WHEREAS, since 1998, Nasdaq's sole member within the meaning of the Delaware Limited Liability Company Act, The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. ("Nasdaq Inc.") has operated certain quotation, transaction execution, and trade reporting services and performed certain related regulatory functions pursuant to authority delegated by NASD through the Plan of Allocation and Delegation of Functions by NASD to Subsidiaries (the "Delegation Plan"); and
WHEREAS, in recognition of the registration of Nasdaq as a national securities exchange and its commencing operations for trading the securities that it lists on August 1, 2006, the Delegation Plan has been amended to limit the scope of authority delegated to Nasdaq Inc. to the operation of systems for quoting, trading, and trade reporting for non-Nasdaq exchange-listed securities and the administration of related NASD rules; and
WHEREAS, the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") has approved a proposal by NASD to remove Nasdaq Inc. from the Delegation Plan upon Nasdaq operating for the NASD as a technology vendor a version of the SuperIntermarket ("Modified SiM") System that will allow NASD to fulfill its regulatory obligation to provide a facility for quoting and trade reporting along with connectivity to the Intermarket Trading System ("ITS") for non-Nasdaq exchange-listed securities, and Nasdaq, NASD, and Nasdaq Technology Services, LLC have entered into the Modified SiM System License and Maintenance Agreement (as such agreement may be amended from time to time, the "Modified SiM Agreement"), which reflects Nasdaq's agreement to operate Modified SiM as a technology vendor to NASD; and
WHEREAS, in lieu of Modified SiM, NASD has indicated that it may commence using a version of its Alternative Display Facility ("Modified ADF") to fulfill its regulatory obligation to provide a facility for quoting and trade reporting for non-Nasdaq exchange-listed securities at such time as NASD is no longer subject to a regulatory obligation to provide connectivity to ITS; and
WHEREAS, the parties have concluded, in consultation with the staff of the SEC's Division of Market Regulation, that the removal of Nasdaq Inc. from the Delegation Plan may be effected in advance of the date on which Nasdaq operates Modified SiM pursuant to the Modified SiM Agreement or the date on which NASD operates Modified ADF if the parties enter into an agreement pursuant to which Nasdaq
 
undertakes a contractual obligation to perform the functions currently delegated to Nasdaq Inc. under the Delegation Plan in accordance with the same performance standards currently applicable to it, and the NASD has submitted a proposed rule change on an immediately effective basis to reflect the removal of Nasdaq Inc. from the Delegation Plan upon the Effective Date of this Agreement; and
WHEREAS, upon the removal of Nasdaq Inc. from the Delegation Plan, the share of Nasdaq Inc.'s Series D Preferred Stock owned by NASD will be redeemed and cancelled by its terms,
NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual covenants and conditions set forth in this Agreement and other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties agree as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(2). Upon request, and to the extent permitted by applicable law, the indemnifying party shall have the right to defend, settle, or compromise any such suit or proceeding, at its expense, provided that: (A) it demonstrates to the satisfaction of the party claiming indemnification that it is financially able to defend such action and to pay any settlement, award or judgment; (B) counsel retained by it are reasonably satisfactory to the party claiming indemnification; and (C) that no settlement shall be made which imposes any obligations on (other than the payment of money which is made by the indemnifying party on behalf of the indemnified party), or is prejudicial to, the party claiming indemnification, without the prior consent of the party claiming indemnification, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld.
(3). The party claiming indemnification shall cooperate with the other party in the defense of any such suit or proceeding, and the other party requesting such cooperation shall reimburse the party claiming indemnification for its reasonable expenses with respect thereto. Such cooperation shall include, but not be limited to, the making of statements and affidavits, attendance at hearings and trials, production of documents, assistance in securing and giving evidence and obtaining the attendance of witnesses. The party claiming indemnification shall not be required to waive its attorney-client or other privileges.
(4). Failure by the party claiming indemnification to promptly notify the other party as required by this subsection shall not invalidate the claim for indemnification, unless such failure has a material adverse effect on the settlement, defense, or compromise of the matter that is the subject of the claim for indemnification. In addition, the party claiming indemnification shall be responsible for any claims or losses that could have been avoided or mitigated by prompt notice as required by this subsection.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
each party has caused this Agreement to be executed on its behalf by its officers thereunto duly authorized on the day and year first above written.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF,
 
 


