FILE:NDAQ/NDAQ-8K-20060313173611.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On March 7, 2006, the Management Compensation Committee of our Board of Directors approved modifications to our Board Compensation Policy. Under the current policy, our non-employee directors receive annual compensation valued at $50,000, which they may elect to receive in cash, restricted stock, or a combination of the two. The modifications, to become effective immediately following our annual shareholders' meeting, provide for annual restricted stock grants valued at $50,000, for total annual director compensation valued at $100,000. In addition, the modifications implement meeting attendance fees for our directors of $1,000 per board meeting and $500 per committee meeting. The Chairman of the Board, directors who chair committees of the Board and directors serving on our Audit Committee receive additional compensation, detailed in our proxy statement filed on May 2, 2005, which is not affected by these modifications. A copy of the revised Policy is attached as Exhibit 10.1 to this Report and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
10.1    Board Compensation Policy
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
Annual Retainer Compensation for Non-Employee Directors
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Annual Non-Retainer Equity for Non-Employee Directors
 
 
 
 
 
Board and Committee Meeting Attendance Fees for Non-Employee Directors
 
 
Annual Committee Chair Fees
 
 
Audit Committee Member Fees
 
 
RSAs
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


