FILE:NDAQ/NDAQ-8K-20060720071944.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.    Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 20, 2006, The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. ("Nasdaq") issued a press release providing financial guidance for the second quarter of 2006. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information set forth under "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" is intended to be furnished pursuant to Item 2.02. Such information, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any of Nasdaq's filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01.    Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(c) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
New York, N.Y.The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. ("NASDAQ"; Nasdaq: NDAQ), today reported second quarter 2006 net income of $16.6 million, or $0.13 per diluted share versus $14.0 million or $0.13 per diluted share in the second quarter of 2005, and $18.0 million or $0.16 per diluted share in the first quarter of 2006.
Second quarter 2006 results include the following pre-tax items:
 
 
 
 
The impact of these items on net income was $13.0 million or $0.09 per diluted share.
Gross margin, representing total revenues less cost of revenues, was $171.1 million in the second quarter of 2006, an increase of 31.2% from $130.4 million in the year-ago period, and an increase of 5.6% from $162.0 million in the first quarter of 2006. Second quarter 2006 represents the seventh consecutive quarter of gross margin growth.
NASDAQ's Chief Executive Officer, Robert Greifeld commented, "Solid execution of our growth strategy throughout the organization drove NASDAQ's strong top line performance. During the quarter our trading systems continued to handle more market share and we further increased our potential for future growth through the introduction of new products and services such as the Global Select Market, the IPO Cross, and NASDAQ Market Velocity. This continued progress enhances our already strong competitive position. Looking into the second half of 2006, we are maintaining our consistent focus on innovation and execution that anticipates and responds to the needs of our customers."
Recent Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Charges Associated with NASDAQ's Cost Reduction Program and INET Integration
As mentioned above, included in total expenses for the second quarter 2006 are pre-tax charges of $17.9 million relating to NASDAQ's continuing efforts to reduce operating expenses and improve the efficiency of its operations, as well as to integrate the INET ECN. These charges include:
 
 
 
2006 Outlook
NASDAQ is raising guidance for the full-year 2006:
 
 
 
2006 total expense projections include approximately $60.0 million to $70.0 million of pre-tax charges associated with NASDAQ's continuing cost reduction efforts and INET integration. Also included are charges realized in the second quarter related to our investment in the London Stock Exchange. These charges include:
 
 
 
 
NASDAQ's Chief Financial Officer, David Warren, commented, "As this quarter's results clearly demonstrate, our business fundamentals remain strong as we grew revenue while driving down core operating expenses. As a result our operating income has improved when compared to both prior year and the first quarter. Excluding non-recurring charges, NASDAQ's operating income improved 21% from the first quarter 2006 and 69% when compared to second quarter 2005. The INET integration and our systems migration to a single book remain on schedule and we remain confident of achieving all of our milestones. Our execution to date and our confidence leads us to increase our 2006 outlook for both gross margin and net income."
Q2 Financial Review
Gross margin increased 31.2% in the second quarter to $171.1 million, up from $130.4 million in the year-ago quarter, and increased 5.6% from $162.0 million in the first quarter of 2006.
Total Revenues and Gross Margin
Market Services
Market Services gross margin increased to $107.7 million or 45.0% from prior year.
 
NM  Not meaningful. Denotes variances equal to or greater than 100%
 
 
 
Issuer Services
During the quarter Issuer Services revenues increased 13.0% to $63.4 million from prior year.
 
NM  Not meaningful. Denotes variances equal to or greater than 100%
 
 
- Total expenses increased 29.5% to $134.8 million from $104.1 million in the year-ago quarter and increased 12.1% from $120.2 million in the prior quarter. Second quarter 2006 expenses increased as a result of $30.6 million of pre-tax items noted above, including the early extinguishment of debt, the refinancing of a credit facility, the foreign currency gain, and costs associated with the continuing INET integration and cost reduction activities. Similar charges relating to the INET integration and cost reduction activities were included in previous quarters, including $5.9 million in the second quarter of 2005 and $13.6 million in the first quarter of 2006.
Total Expenses
Earnings Per Share
As stated above, second quarter earnings per diluted share were $0.13 versus $0.16 in the first quarter of 2006 and $0.13 per diluted share in the year-ago quarter. During the
 
second quarter NASDAQ completed a common stock offering in which it sold 18.5 million shares and used the proceeds to pay down debt incurred to purchase a stake in the London Stock Exchange. NASDAQ's weighted average shares outstanding used to calculate diluted earnings per share was 145.2 million in the quarter versus 109.9 million in the year ago quarter and 128.0 million in the first quarter 2006. The increase from last year is due primarily to the full quarter dilutive impact of the convertible notes and related warrants issued in April 2005 as part of the acquisition of INET ECN, and to the shares issued in NASDAQ's 2006 equity offerings.
NASDAQ is the largest electronic equity securities market in the United States. With approximately 3,200 companies, it lists more companies and, on average, trades more shares per day than any other U.S. market. It is home to category-defining companies that are leaders across all areas of business including technology, retail, communications, financial services, transportation, media and biotechnology industries. For more information about NASDAQ, visit the NASDAQ Web site at www.nasdaq.com or the NASDAQ Newsroom
SM
at www.nasdaqnews.com. NDAQF
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
The matters described herein may contain forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc. cautions that these statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include projections which have not been reviewed by independent auditors of NASDAQ. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties or other factors beyond NASDAQ's control. These factors include, but are not limited to, NASDAQ's ability to implement its strategic initiatives, economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, government and industry regulation, interest rate risk, U.S. and global competition, and other factors detailed in NASDAQ's annual report on Form 10-K, and periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, these statements are based on a number of assumptions that are subject to change. Accordingly, actual results may be materially higher or lower than those projected. The inclusion of such projections herein should not be regarded as a representation by NASDAQ that the projections will prove to be correct. We undertake no obligation to release any revisions to any forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Note:    In addition to disclosing results in accordance with GAAP, NASDAQ has also disclosed a Non-GAAP measure of operating income. Management believes this Non-GAAP measure of operating income is useful to investors because it shows a truer picture of our actual operating performance this quarter.
The Non-GAAP information may not be comparable to other companies and should not be viewed as a substitute for or superior to operating income or other data prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 


