FILE:NDAQ/NDAQ-8K-20061019073206.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 19, 2006, The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. issued a press release providing financial guidance for the third quarter of 2006. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information set forth under "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" is intended to be furnished pursuant to Item 2.02. Such information, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any of Nasdaq's filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

New York, N.Y.The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. ("NASDAQ
"; Nasdaq: NDAQ), today reported third quarter 2006 net income of $30.2 million, or $0.22 per diluted share, an increase of 69.7% from $17.8 million, or $0.16 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2005, and 81.9% from $16.6 million, or $0.13 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2006.
Gross margin, representing total revenues less cost of revenues, was $171.2 million in the third quarter of 2006, an increase of 31.1% from $130.6 million in the year-ago period, and up marginally from $171.1 million reported in the second quarter of 2006.
NASDAQ's Chief Executive Officer, Robert Greifeld commented, "Third quarter operating income grew an impressive 116.9% through the continued execution of our strategic plan. We've been able to improve profitability through successful acquisitions and gains in market share, while maintaining our expense control discipline. Significant gains in our share of trading in NYSE-listed stocks have been achieved, with our matched market sharing growing to 12.1% in the quarter, up from 4.7% in the year-ago quarter. We are on track to reach our 2006 objectives through continued innovation and consistent execution."
Recent Highlights
Charges Associated with NASDAQ's Cost Reduction Program and INET Integration
Included in total expenses for the third quarter 2006 are pre-tax charges of $4.8 million relating to NASDAQ's continuing efforts to reduce operating expenses and improve the efficiency of its operations, as well as to integrate INET. These charges include:
2006 Outlook
NASDAQ is raising guidance for the full-year 2006:
2006 total expense projections include approximately $55.0 million to $60.0 million of pre-tax charges associated with NASDAQ's continuing cost reduction efforts, INET integration and investment in the London Stock Exchange. These charges include:
NASDAQ's Chief Financial Officer, David Warren, commented: "NASDAQ's third quarter results highlight our ability to quickly and efficiently integrate acquisitions, allowing them to contribute to improved margins. When coupled with revenue growth derived from our product innovations and our ability to reduce legacy operating expenses, we have created an effective business model designed to drive growth in profitability. We are now in the final steps of our INET integration and, once completed, fully expect to realize all deal synergies. Our continued ability to execute to plan allows us to improve our outlook for the remainder of 2006."
Q3 Financial Review
 Gross margin increased 31.1% in the third quarter to $171.2 million, up from $130.6 million in the year-ago quarter, and is up marginally from $171.1 million reported in the second quarter of 2006.
Total Revenues and Gross Margin
 
Market Services
Market Services gross margin increased to $111.3 million or 48.8% from prior year, and increased 3.3% from prior quarter.
 
NM  Not meaningful. Denotes variances equal to or greater than 100%
 
 
Issuer Services
During the quarter Issuer Services revenues increased 7.2% to $59.8 million from the prior year quarter and declined 5.7% from prior quarter.
 
NM  Not meaningful. Denotes variances equal to or greater than 100%
 
 Total expenses increased 4.0% to $103.3 million from $99.3 million in the year-ago quarter and decreased 23.4% from $134.8 million in the prior quarter. Third quarter 2006 expenses increased from last year primarily due our recent acquisitions of INET, Carpenter Moore, Shareholder.com, and PrimeZone. Expenses declined from second quarter 2006 primarily due to higher charges in the prior quarter related to our cost reduction program and INET integration, the early extinguishment of debt, and the refinancing of a credit facility. Partially offsetting second quarter 2006 charges was the realization of a foreign currency gain related to our investment in the London Stock Exchange, also recognized in the second quarter 2006.
Total Expenses
Earnings Per Share
As stated above, third quarter earnings per diluted share was $0.22 versus $0.13 in the second quarter of 2006 and $0.16 per diluted share in the year-ago quarter. NASDAQ's weighted average shares outstanding used to calculate diluted earnings per share was 150.8 million in the quarter versus 145.2 million in the second quarter 2006 and 119.4 million in the year-ago quarter. The outstanding share count increased from the year-ago quarter and prior quarter primarily due to the issuance of approximately 26.5 million shares in equity offerings in the first and second quarters of 2006.
NASDAQ
is the largest electronic equity securities market in the United States. With approximately 3,200 companies, it lists more companies and, on average, trades more shares per day than any other U.S. market. It is home to category-defining companies that are leaders across all areas of business including technology, retail, communications, financial services, transportation, media and biotechnology industries. For more information
 
about NASDAQ, visit the NASDAQ Web site at or the NASDAQ Newsroom
www.nasdaq.com
SM
at .
www.nasdaqnews.com
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
The matters described herein may contain forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include projections about our future financial results, as well as the implementation dates and benefits of certain strategic initiatives. The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. cautions that these statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include projections which have not been reviewed by independent auditors of NASDAQ. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties or other factors beyond NASDAQ's control. These factors include, but are not limited to, NASDAQ's ability to implement its strategic initiatives, economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, government and industry regulation, interest rate risk, U.S. and global competition, and other factors detailed in NASDAQ's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, these statements are based on a number of assumptions that are subject to change. Accordingly, actual results may be materially higher or lower than those projected. The inclusion of such projections herein should not be regarded as a representation by NASDAQ that the projections will prove to be correct. We undertake no obligation to release any revisions to any forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 


