FILE:NDAQ/NDAQ-8K-20060222160927.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Triggering Events That Accelerate or Increase a Direct Financial Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement	Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
TEXT:
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Triggering Events That Accelerate or Increase a Direct Financial Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement
ITEM: Material Modifications to Rights of Security Holders
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.02. Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
On February 15, 2006, we redeemed all outstanding shares of our Series C Cumulative Preferred Stock. We were required to redeem the Series C after the closing of our common stock offering, which took place on the same date. At the time of redemption, the Series C accrued dividends at an annual rate of 3.0%, which would have increased to 10.6% after July 1, 2006. The total redemption price was $104.7 million, which also reflected accrued but unpaid dividends and a make-whole premium. We paid this entire amount to NASD, Inc., which was the sole holder of the Series C. As a result of the redemption, we are no longer bound by covenants contained in the Exchange Agreement between us and the NASD dated November 29, 2004 (which was disclosed in our Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 1, 2004). These covenants generally required us to obtain NASD's consent before we could incur certain debt obligations or make certain asset transfers. NASD remains our controlling shareholder.
Item 2.04. Triggering Events That Accelerate or Increase a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement.
Information contained in the response to Item 1.02 above is fully incorporated herein by reference.
Item 3.03. Material Modification to Rights of Security Holders.
Information contained in the response to Item 1.02 above is fully incorporated herein by reference.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


