FILE:NDAQ/NDAQ-8K-20071024072629.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 24, 2007, The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. ("Nasdaq") issued a press release providing financial results for the third quarter of 2007. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information set forth under "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" is intended to be furnished pursuant to Item 2.02. Such information, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any of Nasdaq's filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
New York, N.Y.The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. ("NASDAQ"; NASDAQ: NDAQ), today reported third quarter 2007 net income of $365.0 million, or $2.41 per diluted share, an increase of $334.8 million from $30.2 million, or $0.22 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2006, and an increase of $308.9 million from $56.1 million, or $0.39 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2007.
Included in third quarter results are pre-tax gains of $431.4 million associated with NASDAQ's sale of its share capital of the London Stock Exchange Group plc, and $35.2 million related to gains on foreign currency option contracts. Also included in third quarter 2007 results are the following pre-tax charges:
 
 
 
When excluding these items, net income on a non-GAAP basis was $62.1 million, or $0.42 per diluted share.
Revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees ("net exchange revenues") were $210.0 million in the third quarter of 2007, an increase of 22.7% from $171.2 million in the year-ago period, and up 5.7% from $198.7 million reported in the second quarter of 2007.
"We are pleased to have once again reported record operating results, built largely on the success of new highs in trading volume and market share," commented Bob Greifeld, NASDAQ's President and Chief Executive Officer. "Our growth and liquidity has firmly established NASDAQ as the leader in the U.S. equities marketplace, driven largely by the pace at which we introduce new products and services designed to meet the needs of our customers. We know firsthand that working closely with customers to develop innovative products distinguishes NASDAQ from the competition and is a key driver behind our strong financial performance."
Recent Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2007 Outlook
NASDAQ expects the following results for the full-year 2007:
 
 
 
These estimates include the impact of the pre-tax gain of $431.4 million and other non-recurring items noted above.
"NASDAQ is in its strongest financial condition since becoming a public company," commented NASDAQ's Chief Financial Officer, David Warren. "We've paid down our INET-bank debt in a little under two years and have $1.3 billion in cash on the balance sheet. Looking forward we will continue to focus on revenue growth and free cash flow generation, while maintaining our strict focus on cost control and leveraging our fixed-cost platform. The strength of our core businesses and our strong cash position give us the ability to continue to be opportunistic and invest in areas that will benefit our shareholders and customers."
Financial Review
Net exchange revenues increased 22.7% in the third quarter to $210.0 million, up from $171.2 million in the prior year quarter, and up 5.7% from $198.7 million reported in the second quarter of 2007.
Market Services
Market Services net exchange revenues increased to $136.7 million, up 22.8% from the prior year quarter, and up 6.9% from the prior quarter.
 
 
 
Issuer Services
During the third quarter Issuer Services revenues increased 22.4% to $73.2 million from the prior year quarter and increased 3.5% from prior quarter.
 
 
 
Total Operating Expenses
Total operating expenses increased 22.1% to $126.1 million from $103.3 million in the prior year quarter and increased 26.5% from $99.7 million in the prior quarter. Third quarter 2007 expenses increased from last year and prior quarter primarily due to a pre-tax charge of $19.5 million associated with tax benefits shared with strategic investors and a pre-tax charge of $5.8 million related to the early extinguishment of debt.
Earnings Per Share
Third quarter earnings per diluted share were $2.41 versus $0.22 per diluted share in the prior year quarter, and $0.39 in the second quarter of 2007. NASDAQ's weighted average shares outstanding used to calculate diluted earnings per share were 152.3 million in the quarter versus 150.8 million in the year-ago quarter and 152.0 million in the second quarter of 2007.
NASDAQ is the largest U.S. equities exchange. With over 3,100 companies, it lists more companies and, on average, trades more shares per day than any other U.S. market. It is home to companies that are leaders across all areas of business including technology, retail, communications, financial services, transportation, media and biotechnology. NASDAQ is the primary market for trading NASDAQ-listed stocks as well as a leading liquidity pool for trading NYSE-listed stocks. For more information about NASDAQ, visit the NASDAQ Web site at or the NASDAQ Newsroom at
www.nasdaq.com
www.nasdaq.com/newsroom/
Non-GAAP Information
In addition to disclosing results determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), NASDAQ also discloses certain non-GAAP results of operations, including total expenses, operating income, net income and diluted earnings per share, that exclude certain charges and gains that are described in the reconciliation table of non-GAAP to GAAP information provided at the end of this release.Management believes that this non-GAAP information provides investors with additional information to assess NASDAQ's operating performance by excluding these costs and gains and assists investors in comparing our operating performance to prior periods. Management uses this non-GAAP information, along with GAAP information, in evaluating its historical operating performance.
 
The non-GAAP information is not prepared in accordance with GAAP and may not be comparable to non-GAAP information used by other companies. The non-GAAP information should not be viewed as a substitute for, or superior to, other data prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Information set forth in this communication contains forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. NASDAQ cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, projections about our future financial results and statements about the implementation dates and benefits of certain strategic initiatives, including the transactions contemplated by NASDAQ's agreements with Borse Dubai, OMX AB and the Boston Stock Exchange, and other statements that are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties or other factors beyond NASDAQ's control. These factors include, but are not limited to, NASDAQ's ability to implement its strategic initiatives, economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, government and industry regulation, interest rate risk, U.S. and global competition, and other factors detailed in NASDAQ's filings with the U.S. Securities Exchange Commission, including its annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006 which is available on NASDAQ's website at http://www.nasdaq.com and the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. NASDAQ undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Notice to OMX shareholders
While NASDAQ's offer for OMX is being made to all holders of OMX shares, this document does not constitute an offer to purchase, sell or exchange or the solicitation of an offer to purchase, sell or exchange any securities of OMX or an offer to purchase, sell or exchange or the solicitation of an offer to purchase, sell or exchange any securities of NASDAQ in any jurisdiction in which the making of the offer or the acceptance of any tender of shares therein would not be made in compliance with the laws of such jurisdiction. In particular, NASDAQ's offer is not being made, directly or indirectly, in or into Australia, Canada, Japan or South Africa. While NASDAQ reserves the right to make the offer in or into the United Kingdom or any other jurisdiction pursuant to applicable exceptions or following appropriate filings and prospectus or equivalent document publication by NASDAQ in such jurisdictions, pending such filings or publications and in the absence of any such exception NASDAQ's offer is not made in any such jurisdiction.
Additional Information About the NASDAQ/OMX Transaction
On August 7, 2007, NASDAQ filed with the SEC a Registration Statement on Form S-4 that includes a preliminary proxy statement of NASDAQ that also constitutes a prospectus of NASDAQ. On October 12, 2007, NASDAQ filed with the SEC a preliminary proxy statement on Schedule 14A relating to the proposed transactions with Borse Dubai and OMX. Investors and security holders are urged to read the preliminary proxy statements, prospectus and the definitive proxy statement when it becomes available, as well as any amendments and other applicable documents regarding the proposed business combination because those documents contain, or will contain, important information. You may obtain a free copy of those documents and other related documents filed by NASDAQ with the SEC at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. The preliminary proxy statements and prospectus and the other documents may also be obtained for free by accessing NASDAQ's website at http://www.nasdaq.com.
 
NASDAQ and its directors and executive officers and other members of management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from NASDAQ stockholders in respect of the transactions described in this communication. You can find information about NASDAQ's executive officers and directors in NASDAQ's definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on April 20, 2007. You can obtain free copies of these documents and of the preliminary proxy statements and prospectus from NASDAQ by accessing NASDAQ's website at http://www.nasdaq.com. Additional information regarding the interests of such potential participants is included in the preliminary proxy statements and prospectus and may be included in the other relevant documents filed with the SEC when they become available.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


