FILE:NDAQ/NDAQ-8K-20070531070613.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On May 25, 2007, The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. ("Nasdaq") and OMX AB ("OMX") entered into a Transaction Agreement to combine the two companies through a cash and stock tender offer by Nasdaq for all outstanding shares of OMX (the "Offer"). Certain stockholders of OMX have entered into Irrevocable Undertakings with respect to the Offer. In addition, on May 25, 2007, Nasdaq entered into certain agreements with lenders for purposes of providing financing for the Offer.
Transaction Agreement
Pursuant to the Transaction Agreement, the consideration to be offered by Nasdaq in the Offer is equivalent to 0.502 shares of Nasdaq common stock plus SEK 94.3 in cash for each OMX share. Based on Nasdaq's closing price on May 23, 2007 and an exchange rate of SEK 6.83 per US$, the Offer valued OMX at SEK 208.1 per share. Nasdaq has agreed to apply for a secondary listing on the OMX Nordic Exchange.
The Transaction Agreement provides that the Offer is subject to satisfaction of the conditions set forth in the press release issued by Nasdaq and OMX on May 25, 2007, which is attached to the Transaction Agreement as Appendix 1.1. The conditions include, among others (i) that the Offer be accepted to such an extent that Nasdaq becomes the owner of shares representing more than 90 percent of the outstanding shares of OMX on a fully diluted basis (which percentage may be reduced to not less than 67 percent in Nasdaq's sole discretion), (ii) that Nasdaq's shareholders approve the issuance of the Nasdaq shares in connection with the Offer and (iii) the receipt of all required regulatory approvals. Subject to certain exceptions and the termination provisions discussed below, Nasdaq has agreed to extend the Offer if, at the scheduled expiration date of the Offer or any extension thereof, the conditions to the Offer have not been satisfied or waived.
Each of Nasdaq and OMX has agreed that it will not, among other things (i) solicit, initiate, encourage, induce or facilitate an alternative acquisition proposal for itself, (ii) furnish information regarding itself to a third party or (iii) engage in any discussions or negotiations with any third party with respect to an alternative acquisition proposal, unless, in the case of clauses (ii) and (iii), a party receives a bona fide unsolicited written alternative acquisition proposal and (a) such party and its representatives have not violated any of the non-solicitation provisions in the Transaction Agreement, (b) a majority of such party's board (after consultation with its financial advisors and outside legal counsel) determines that such proposal is or is reasonably likely to result in a superior proposal to the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Agreement and (c) such party's board concludes, after having taken into account the advice of its financial advisors and outside legal counsel, that a failure to take such action would reasonably be likely to be inconsistent with the party's board's fiduciary obligations to its stockholders.
The OMX board's recommendation of the Offer may only be withdrawn or substantially changed if (i) OMX has complied in all material respects with the non-solicitation provisions in the Transaction Agreement and a superior proposal to the Offer is made, (ii) a material adverse change has occurred with respect to Nasdaq or (iii) information made public by Nasdaq or disclosed by Nasdaq to OMX is materially misleading, or Nasdaq has failed to make public any material information which should have been made public by it, and in any such case the OMX board determines, after consultation with its outside financial and legal advisors, that not withdrawing or changing its recommendation of the Offer would reasonably be likely to be inconsistent with the OMX board's fiduciary obligations to its shareholders.
The Nasdaq board's recommendation that Nasdaq shareholders approve the issuance of the Nasdaq shares in connection with the Offer may only be withdrawn or substantially changed if a material adverse change has occurred with respect to OMX, and as a result the Nasdaq board determines, after consultation with its outside financial and legal advisors, that not withdrawing or changing its recommendation would reasonably be likely to be inconsistent with the Nasdaq board's fiduciary obligations to its shareholders.
Upon consummation of the Offer, the name of the combined company will be changed to The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc., subject to approval by Nasdaq's shareholders of an amendment to Nasdaq's certificate of incorporation to approve such change of name. Upon consummation of the Offer, the Nasdaq board will consist of fifteen directors, comprised of nine individuals from (or nominated by) the Nasdaq board as of immediately prior to consummation of the Offer, Nasdaq's CEO and five individuals from (or proposed for nomination by) the OMX board as of immediately prior to consummation of the Offer. With respect to the individuals from (or proposed for nomination by) the OMX board, such individuals must be reasonably acceptable to Nasdaq and four of such individuals must be "independent" for purposes of Nasdaq's director independence standards. Upon consummation of the Offer, Nasdaq's Chief Executive Officer (currently Robert Greifeld) will serve as Chief Executive Officer of the combined company and OMX's Chief Executive Officer (currently Magnus Bcker) will serve as President of the combined company.
The Chairman of the combined company will represent the global span of the merged Nasdaq and OMX. Nasdaq and OMX will utilize Nasdaq's recruitment tool "BoardRecruiting.com" and a well-reputed search firm to identify internal and external candidates, it being the belief of Nasdaq and OMX that the appropriate size of the Nasdaq board is 15 directors. OMX and Nasdaq will each have the right to nominate candidates for Chairman. The Deputy Chairman of the Nasdaq board will for the two years following the consummation of the Offer be one of the five individuals from (or proposed for nomination by) the OMX board as of immediately prior to the consummation of the Offer. As of the consummation of the Offer, OMX may elect to have one-third of the members of each committee of the Nasdaq board be selected from the directors selected from (or proposed for nomination by) the OMX board, subject to applicable law, regulation or stock exchange listing standard. As of the consummation of the Offer, three individuals nominated by OMX will become members of the Nominating Committee of Nasdaq. The composition of the local Board of OMX Exchanges Ltd. will remain unchanged following the consummation of the Offer. The Parties do not anticipate any changes to the governance of The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC as a result of the consummation of the Offer.
The Transaction Agreement (i) may be terminated by written consent of both Nasdaq and OMX, (ii) may be terminated by either OMX or Nasdaq if the Offer lapses or is withdrawn, (iii) may be terminated by either OMX or Nasdaq if the Offer is not declared unconditional by February 29, 2008 and (iv) will automatically terminate if either the OMX board recommendation (with respect to the Offer) or the Nasdaq board recommendation (with respect to approval of the issuance of the Nasdaq shares in connection with the Offer) is withdrawn in accordance with the Transaction Agreement.
If either party is in breach of its obligations under the Transaction Agreement (other than in immaterial respects), it must pay the other party's costs, fees and expenses up to a maximum of $15,000,000.
Pursuant to the Transaction Agreement, each of OMX and Nasdaq have agreed, among other things, not to acquire any shares or other securities in the other until the earlier of (i) 9 months following termination of the Transaction Agreement and (ii) December 31, 2008. The foregoing restriction does not apply to the Offer itself.
The foregoing description of the Transaction Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Transaction Agreement, a copy of which is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto and is hereby incorporated into this report by reference.
Irrevocable Undertakings
Investor AB, Nordea Bank AB and Magnus Bcker (the "Investors"), which own in the aggregate 19,094,698 shares of OMX, representing approximately 16.6% of the outstanding shares of OMX, have each entered into irrevocable undertakings with Nasdaq, pursuant to which each Investor has agreed to (i) accept the Offer and tender all of its shares in the Offer immediately prior to, but conditioned upon, the Offer being declared unconditional, (ii) elect to receive shares of Nasdaq common stock in the Offer if the Offer includes a mix and match facility which has an equalizing mechanism designed to achieve substantially similar value between the offered alternatives and (iii) support Nasdaq to a reasonable extent and where capable of doing so (including by exercising voting rights) in Nasdaq's implementation of the Offer and oppose the taking of any action which may prejudice or frustrate the Offer.
Additionally, each Investor has agreed not to (i) offer, sell, transfer, charge, pledge or grant any option over or otherwise dispose of any of its OMX shares, whether directly or indirectly, except to Nasdaq under the Offer, (ii) accept any other offer in respect of any of its OMX shares (iii) directly or indirectly solicit proposals or offers from third parties for the acquisition of all shares in OMX, (iv) propose or vote in favor of any resolution for payment of dividends or other value distributions by OMX (whether in cash or otherwise and whether to the shareholders of OMX or to a third party), or propose or vote in favor of any other resolution, or take any action or make any statement, which could prejudice or frustrate the Offer, or (v) withdraw its acceptance of the Offer.
Each Irrevocable Undertaking will automatically terminate under certain circumstances, including if (i) the Offer is not declared unconditional before December 15, 2007, (ii) a material adverse change has occurred with respect to Nasdaq, (iii) the recommendation of the Offer by the OMX board is withdrawn, (iv) prior to the Offer being declared unconditional, a bona fide unsolicited third party public offer is made for all of the shares of OMX which corresponds to an offer value in SEK equal to or exceeding SEK 220 per OMX share or (v) prior to the Offer being declared unconditional, the value of the Offer, as accepted by the Investors, would equate to less than SEK 190 per share during a period of 15 consecutive trading days, based upon the volume weighted average price of Nasdaq shares during such period.
Pursuant to the Irrevocable Undertakings, Nasdaq has agreed to certain restrictions on its ability to transfer shares of OMX acquired from the Investors for a period of nine months following the consummation of the Offer.
The foregoing description of the Irrevocable Undertakings does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Irrevocable Undertakings, copies of which are filed as Exhibits 10.2 through 10.4 hereto and which are hereby incorporated into this report by reference.
Financing for Offer
In connection with the Offer, Nasdaq has received a debt commitment letter, dated as of May 24, 2007 (the "Commitment Letter"), from Bank of America, N.A. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (collectively, the "Banks") for the commitment of debt financing in the aggregate amount of up to $3.445 billion consisting of: (i) a $750.0 million term loan facility, (ii) a $2.62 billion term loan facility and (iii) a revolving credit facility of $75.0 million (collectively, the "Credit Facilities"). The debt commitments expire on the earlier of the consummation of the Offer and February 29, 2008. The closing of the Credit Facilities is subject to customary closing conditions including, without limitation, the satisfaction of the conditions to the consummation of the Offer, payment of required fees and expenses and the negotiation, execution and delivery of definitive documentation.
The summary of terms attached to the Commitment Letter provides for the following terms and conditions. Loans under the Credit Facilities will bear interest, at Nasdaq's option, at a rate equal to the London interbank offer rate or an alternate base rate, in each case plus a spread. In addition, Nasdaq will pay customary commitment fees and letter of credit fees. Upon the initial funding of the Credit Facilities, Nasdaq has also agreed to pay an underwriting fee to the Banks. The proceeds of the Credit Facilities will be used to finance the cash consideration of the Offer, pay fees and expenses incurred in connection with the transaction and repay certain existing indebtedness of Nasdaq and OMX. The obligations under the Credit Facilities will be guaranteed by each of the existing and future direct and indirect material wholly-owned domestic subsidiaries, subject to exceptions to be agreed upon. The obligations of Nasdaq and the guarantors under the Credit Facilities will be secured, subject to certain exceptions, by all the capital stock of each of their present and future subsidiaries (limited, in the case of foreign subsidiaries, to 65% of the voting stock of such subsidiaries) and all of the present and future property and assets (real and personal) of Nasdaq and the guarantors. If the collateral (other than capital stock of domestic subsidiaries that is required to be pledged and assets over which a lien may be perfected by filing a financing statement under the uniform commercial code) is not provided on the closing date despite use of commercially reasonable efforts to do so, the delivery of the collateral will not be a condition precedent to the availability of the Credit Facilities on the closing date, but instead will be delivered following the closing date. The Credit Facilities will contain customary representations and warranties and customary affirmative and negative covenants, including, without limitation, restrictions on indebtedness, liens, investments, asset sales, acquisitions, dividends and other distributions. The Credit Facilities will also include customary events of default, including a change of control.
The Commitment Letter provides that if definitive, signed documentation is not negotiated and signed by the date the Offer is launched, Nasdaq and the Banks will execute and deliver an interim loan agreement in the form attached as an annex to the Commitment Letter and provide credit facilities in an aggregate amount of $3.37 billion thereunder on substantially the same terms as set forth above, other than that such interim loan will not include a revolving credit facility.
In connection with the Offer, affiliates of Hellman & Friedman, affiliates of Silver Lake Partners and Robert Greifeld (the "Voting Agreement Parties"), have each entered into voting agreements with OMX (the "Voting Agreements"), pursuant to which each Voting Agreement Party has agreed to (i) vote all of its Nasdaq securities in favor of the issuance of the Nasdaq shares in connection with the Offer and any other matter submitted to Nasdaq shareholders in connection with the Transaction Agreement and (ii) vote all of its Nasdaq securities against any and all actions that OMX advises such Voting Agreement Party would reasonably likely delay, prevent or frustrate the transactions contemplated by the Transaction Agreement or the satisfaction of any of the conditions set forth in the Offer.
Each Voting Agreement will automatically terminate under certain circumstances, including if (i) the Transaction Agreement is terminated, (ii) all of the securities subject to the Voting Agreement are transferred or (iii) the terms of the Offer are amended in a way that is adverse to Nasdaq's security holders, without the Voting Agreement Party's written consent. The Voting Agreements do not restrict in any way the transfer by the Voting Agreement Parties of their Nasdaq securities.
Pursuant to Nasdaq's governing documents, Nasdaq's board has approved the submission of an application to the Securities and Exchange Commission seeking to allow 12% of Nasdaq's voting power owned by the Voting Agreement Parties to be voted in accordance with the Voting Agreements. The Voting Agreements will not be legally effective until the time, if any, as such approval is granted.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 31, 2007
 

Exhibit 10.1
EXECUTION VERSION
 
EXECUTION VERSION
 
APPENDIX:
 
 
TRANSACTION AGREEMENT
This transaction agreement (this "Agreement") is made on May 25, 2007
BETWEEN:
 
 
Nasdaq and OMX are hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Parties" and individually as a "Party". In this Agreement, save where the context otherwise requires, words in the singular shall include the plural, and vice versa.
BACKGROUND:
 
 
 
IT IS AGREED as follows:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Except as contemplated by this Agreement, each Party will not and will procure that its Representatives and any person acting in concert with it will not, directly or indirectly, either alone or acting in concert with others, without the other Party's prior written consent at any time until the earlier of (i) nine months of termination of the Agreement pursuant to Section 11 of this Agreement, and (ii) December 31, 2008, acquire or offer to acquire, or cause another person to acquire or offer to acquire, an interest in any shares or other securities of the other Party or enter into an agreement or arrangement (whether or not legally binding) or do or omit to do any act as a result of which it or any person may acquire an interest in any shares or other securities of the other Party; provided, however, that this Section 7 (i) shall not be binding, and shall have no further force and effect, upon the consummation of the Offer, and (ii) shall not prevent Nasdaq from taking any of the foregoing actions (other than to acquire or offer to acquire, or cause another person to acquire or offer to acquire, an interest in any shares or other securities of OMX outside of a takeover offer) in connection with making and consummating a takeover offer for all of the Shares (including by way of a tender offer) and acquiring any Shares tendered or otherwise received in connection therewith following announcement by a third party of an Acquisition Proposal, or an intention to make an Acquisition Proposal, with respect to OMX (with all references in the definition of "Acquisition Proposal" to 20% deemed to be references to "two-thirds").
 
 
The Parties agree that after Closing, the corporate name of Nasdaq shall be changed to The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. ("Nasdaq OMX Group"). Nasdaq shall seek approval at the Nasdaq Shareholders' Meeting of an amendment to its certificate of incorporation to approve such change of name. If for any reason such change is not approved, Nasdaq shall take such actions as shall be reasonably requested by OMX to ensure that after the Closing Nasdaq trades under the name "Nasdaq OMX Group."
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
OMX shall take such action as necessary, including using reasonable efforts to obtain any consent that may be required from any holder of any option to purchase Shares (an "Option"), such that, immediately prior to the Closing, (x) each Option granted under OMX's Global Employee Stock Option Program for the 2000, 2001 and 2002 that is outstanding and unexercised immediately prior to the Closing shall vest and be exercisable immediately prior to the Closing and (y) any Option that has not been exercised on or prior to the Closing shall be canceled as of the Closing, and Nasdaq shall, on the later of January 31, 2008 and 30 days after Closing, and subject to the option holder not having been terminated for cause or having voluntarily terminated his or her employment with the Nasdaq OMX Group prior thereto, pay the holder thereof, in consideration for such cancellation, an amount in cash, without interest and less withholdings specified under "Consideration Per Share Under Option" for the applicable program year:
 
 
Each holder of a Share purchased as a result of the exercise of any Option prior to Closing shall be entitled to elect to receive the same consideration as offered to any holder of a Share.
The OMX Board shall take all such actions necessary under OMX's Share Match Plan 2006 ("2006 Plan") and Share Match Plan 2007 ("2007 Plan") such that each Share subject to vesting or other lapse restrictions pursuant to the 2006 Plan or the 2007 Plan (collectively, "Restricted Shares") immediately prior to the Closing shall vest and become free of restrictions as of the Closing and become entitled, subject to the terms of this Section 8.4, in respect of each individual Share to receive an amount of cash equal to the Cash Consideration (as defined in the Offer Announcement) for (A) 3.75 Shares in respect of each Restricted Share under the 2006 Plan and (B) the number of Restricted Shares subject to each award granted under the 2007 Plan that equals the maximum number of Invested Shares (as such term is used in the 2007 Plan) each holder was entitled to purchase in accordance with the current terms of the 2007 Plan. Subject to the option holder not having been terminated for cause or having voluntarily terminated his or her employment with Nasdaq OMX Group prior thereto, the holder shall receive such equivalent Cash Consideration amount on the later of January 31, 2008 and 30 days after Closing. The Cash Consideration with respect to any Restricted Shares with respect to which all of the foregoing conditions are not satisfied will be deemed forfeited as of the Closing and will not be paid to such Restricted Share holder.
 
Nasdaq and OMX shall prior to issuing and filing the Offer Document agree on the organization and senior management positions for the Nasdaq OMX group.
 
The Parties agree that after Closing, Nasdaq shall apply for a secondary listing on the OMX Nordic Exchange.
 
 
The Parties shall cooperate with each other and use, and shall cause their Affiliates to use, their respective reasonable best efforts to take or cause to be taken all actions, and do or cause to be done all things necessary, proper or advisable on its part under this Agreement and applicable law and stock exchange regulation, including, but not limited to, the Takeover Rules, to consummate and make effective the Offer and the transaction contemplated by this Agreement as soon as practicable. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, neither Party shall take any action to the extent such action would reasonably be expected to prevent, materially impede or materially delay the consummation of the Offer.
 
From and after the Closing, Nasdaq shall (i) indemnify and hold harmless, and provide advancement of expenses to (subject to (a) repayment if indemnification is not required under this provision and (b) a written undertaking by each person covered under this provision to provide such repayment), all current directors and senior officers of OMX to the fullest extent permitted by law in each case for acts or omissions occurring at or prior to the Closing in connection with the approval of this Agreement and the consummation of the transactions contemplated hereby (but in no case for acts or omissions resulting from gross negligence or willful misconduct), and (ii) for a period of six (6) years from the Closing, Nasdaq shall, at its sole option, either (x) (a) cause to be maintained in effect the current policies of directors' and officers' liability insurance and fiduciary liability insurance maintained by OMX or (b) substitute therefore third-party policies of at least the same coverage and amounts containing terms and conditions that are not materially less advantageous in the aggregate than the current policies or (y) purchase a "tail policy" of at least the same coverage and amounts containing terms and conditions that are not materially less advantageous in the aggregate than the current policies, in each case with respect to matters arising on or before the Closing; , , that after the Closing, Nasdaq shall not be required to pay in respect of any one policy year more than 200% of the last annual premium paid by OMX prior to the date hereof in respect of the coverages required to be obtained pursuant hereto, but in such case shall purchase as much coverage as reasonably practicable for 200% of such last annual premium; and further provided that if Nasdaq elects to purchase a "tail policy" and the same coverage costs more than 200% of such last annual premium, Nasdaq shall purchase the maximum amount of coverage that can be obtained for 200% of such last annual premium. This Section 10.2 is intended to benefit, and shall be enforceable by, each current director and senior officer of OMX. This Section 10.2 shall apply only to the extent permissible under applicable laws, stock exchange regulations and the Takeover Rules.
provided
however
 
Each of Nasdaq and OMX shall promptly notify the other Party orally and in writing of the occurrence or existence of any circumstance or event which may affect the satisfaction of any of the Offer Conditions or which may otherwise affect the consummation of the Offer and the transaction contemplated by this Agreement.
 
Neither Nasdaq, OMX nor any of their respective Affiliates shall issue or cause the publication of any press release or other public announcement with respect to the Offer, this Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby without the prior written consent of the other Party (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld), except (a) as may be required by applicable law or stock exchange regulation, including, but not limited to, the Takeover Rules, in which case reasonable efforts to consult between the Parties is required to the extent practicable, or (b) in the ordinary course in connection with the investor relations practices of Nasdaq or OMX.
 
In each case to the extent permitted by applicable law and at Nasdaq's expense, OMX and its subsidiaries shall use reasonable best efforts, and shall use reasonable best efforts to cause each of their Representatives, to assist and cooperate with Nasdaq in connection with their efforts to obtain the proceeds of any financing that Nasdaq seeks in connection with the Offer, including (i) causing appropriate Representatives to be available on reasonable advance notice to meet and cooperate with prospective lenders, investors and rating agencies, (ii) assisting with the preparation of materials required for the financing of the Offer (including those required by the SEC), (iii) causing its independent accountants to provide reasonable assistance to Nasdaq, including providing consent to Nasdaq to use their audit reports and any reviews of interim period financial statements and to provide any necessary "comfort letters," (iv) using reasonable efforts to cause its attorneys to provide reasonable assistance to Nasdaq, including to provide any necessary and customary legal opinions, (v) requesting any necessary rating agencies' confirmations or approvals and (vi) executing and delivering any other requested certificates or documents. OMX shall provide to Nasdaq (a) within 90 days after the most recent fiscal year-end, the audited consolidated balance sheets and related statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows of OMX and (b) as soon as reasonably possible, unaudited consolidated balance sheets and related statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows of OMX for each fiscal quarter of the then current fiscal year ending more than 60 days prior to the Closing, in both cases in accordance with IFRS.
 
Each of Nasdaq and OMX undertakes to comply with applicable law and stock exchange regulation, including, but not limited to, the Takeover Act, the Takeover Rules, the Securities Council's rulings regarding interpretation and application of the Takeover Rules, the Securities Act and the Exchange Act.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Each of the Parties to this Agreement confirms that this Agreement represents the entire understanding and constitutes the whole agreement between the Parties in relation to its subject matter and supersedes all prior agreements, covenants, arrangements, communications, representations or warranties, whether oral or written, by any Representative of either of the Parties, except the Confidentiality Agreement between the Parties, dated March 12, 2007, as amended.
 
This Agreement may only be amended by an instrument in writing duly executed by the Parties. No change, termination, modification or waiver of any provision, term or condition of this Agreement shall be binding on the Parties, unless it is made in writing.
 
 
 
 
This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the successors of the Parties but shall not be assignable by any of the Parties without the prior written consent of the other Party.
 
The headings in this Agreement are for convenience only and shall not affect the interpretation of any provision of this Agreement.
 
Except as otherwise provided in Sections 8.4 and 10.2, this Agreement is not intended to, and does not, confer upon any person other than the Parties hereto any rights or remedies hereunder.
 
If any provision of this Agreement or the application of it shall be declared or deemed void, invalid or unenforceable in whole or in part for any reason, the Parties shall amend this Agreement as shall be necessary to give effect to the spirit of this Agreement so far as possible. If the Parties fail to amend this Agreement, the provision which is void, invalid or unenforceable, shall be deleted and the remaining provisions of this Agreement shall continue in full force and effect.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Agreement has been duly executed in two (2) original copies, of which each of the Parties has taken one (1) copy.
Friday May 25, 2007
 
 
 
Joint Press Release, 25 May, 2007
The boards of directors of The NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc. ("NASDAQ") and OMX AB (publ) ("OMX") jointly announce that they have entered into an agreement (the "Transaction Agreement") to combine the two companies (the "Combination" or the "Transaction"), creating the world's premier exchange and technology company. The Combination will create the largest global network of exchanges and exchange customers linked by technology. The Combination will provide significant benefits for customers, shareholders and other stakeholders in both companies.
The new group, to be called The NASDAQ OMX Group (the "Combined Group"), brings together two companies with a common culture and vision of innovation, competitiveness and pioneering technological expertise. NASDAQ OMX Group combines two highly complementary businesses, uniting NASDAQ's leading global brand, highly efficient electronic trading platform and track record of customer focused innovation with OMX's global technology services platform and customer base, efficient Nordic Exchange, derivatives capabilities and track record of successful cross-border exchange integrations.
The Combination will be effected through a cash and stock tender offer (the "Offer") by NASDAQ for all outstanding shares in OMX. The consideration offered is equivalent to 0.502 new NASDAQ shares plus SEK94.3 in cash for each OMX share. Based on NASDAQ's closing price on 23 May, 2007, the Offer values OMX at SEK208.1 per share
1
, equivalent to SEK25.1 billion ($3.7 billion) and represents a premium of 19 percent to the closing price of SEK174.5 per OMX share on 23 May, 2007, the last full trading day prior to the announcement of the Offer
 
1
Based on NASDAQ's closing share price of $33.19 on 23 May, 2007, the last full trading day prior to the announcement of the Offer, and a SEK/$ exchange rate of 6.83
 
and a premium of 25 percent to the volume weighted average price of SEK165.9 per OMX share over the 20 trading days up to and including 23 May, 2007.
Robert Greifeld, Chief Executive Officer of NASDAQ, commented:
"The future of exchanges is about technology, flexibility and scale. NASDAQ and OMX together deliver all of these benefits. Our technology leadership and track record in linking trading platforms means we will offer issuers and investors unique benefits which were not available in one company until now. This combination provides our organizations with the ability to grow and accelerate the global flow of equity capital. At the same time, it provides us with an excellent platform for further expansion into derivatives and other asset classes. Our organizations bring together very complementary businesses, and we see many new opportunities for growth in an era of unprecedented change and development for exchanges."
Magnus Bcker, Chief Executive Officer of OMX, commented:
"
This combination creates a new leader in the exchange industry. By utilizing the combined entities' joint expertise and competencies we will create an outstanding platform for future growth. Issuers, members, information vendors and investors on both NASDAQ and OMX Nordic Exchange will all benefit from its new global context. The combination also provides benefits for OMX's global technology customer base, as it enables an increased focus on research and product development in the most important and fastest growing areas of the exchange technology market."
H. Furlong Baldwin, Chairman of NASDAQ, commented:
"We are each coming at this combination from a position of strength. At NASDAQ, we are privileged to be partnering with such a reputable institution as the OMX."
Urban Bckstrm, Chairman of OMX, commented:
"For OMX, as a company that has always been known for its innovative and ground-breaking approach within the exchange industry, this is the natural next step. This will also strengthen the Nordic region as a financial center."
The Combined Group will have 2,349 employees in 22 countries with pro forma revenues for the financial year 2006 of more than $1.2 billion (SEK8.3 billion). The relative values of the companies under the terms of the Offer and based on NASDAQ's closing share price as of 23 May, 2007 are 58 percent NASDAQ and 42 percent OMX. The pro forma market capitalization of The NASDAQ OMX Group will be approximately $7.1 billion (SEK48.6 billion)
2
, of which NASDAQ shareholders will own approximately 72 percent and OMX shareholders will hold approximately 28 percent as a result of the cash component of the Offer.
3
The Combined Group will be governed by representatives from both NASDAQ and OMX under the leadership of Robert Greifeld, who will serve as Chief Executive Officer and Magnus
 
3
Pro forma ownership assumes full subscription of the Offer
 
Bcker, who will serve as President. The board of directors of the Combined Group will consist of 15 members, including nine representatives from NASDAQ, five representatives from OMX and the Chief Executive Officer of the Combined Group. The NASDAQ OMX share will be listed on NASDAQ and on OMX Nordic Exchange.
The Combination is unanimously recommended by the boards of directors of each of OMX and NASDAQ. Investor AB, Nordea Bank AB and Magnus Bcker, together representing approximately 16.6 percent of OMX's current issued ordinary share capital, have entered into irrevocable undertakings to accept the Offer and, if a mix and match facility is included in the Offer, depending on the structure and the terms of the facility, they will elect to receive all shares, subject to proration. Olof Stenhammar & Company, representing approximately 1.6 percent of OMX's current issued ordinary share capital, has expressed its support for the Combination and its intention to become a long term shareholder in the Combined Group. In addition, Hellman & Friedman, Silver Lake Partners, and Robert Greifeld have each agreed to vote their shares in favor of certain matters related to the Offer at the related NASDAQ shareholders' meeting, subject to the terms of NASDAQ's certificate of incorporation.
The Combination will create:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Combination is expected to create substantial value for shareholders and to be accretive to earnings per share in 2009.
This summary should be read in conjunction with the text of the attached full announcement.
A joint press and analyst conference regarding the Offer and Combination of NASDAQ and OMX will be held today at 10.00am CET at OMX Headquarters, Tullvaktsvgen 15, Stockholm. If you are unable to attend the meeting in person, you can listen via:
Sweden: +46(0)850520270
UK: +44(0)2088179301
US: +1 7183541226
The presentation will also be webcast and can be found on www.omxgroup.com and on www.nasdaq.com
In addition NASDAQ and OMX will host a second conference call for the benefit of US based analysts and investors, to be held at 8.00am EDT:
Title: NASDAQ Conference Call
Domestic dial-in: 866-765-6327
International dial-in: +1 913-312-6621
And at 9.00am EDT, there will be a press call:
Title: NASDAQ Conference Call
Domestic dial-in: 800 810-0924
International Q&A: +1 913 981-4900
 
A presentation on the Combination will be available today on NASDAQ's (www.nasdaq.com) and OMX's (www.omxgroup.com) websites.
For further information please contact:
OMX Contacts
Jonas Rodny, Senior Communications Manager
+46 8 405 72 67
jonas.rodny@omxgroup.com
Heidi Wendt, Vice President, Corporate Communications
+46 8 405 72 93
heidi.wendt@omxgroup.com
NASDAQ Contacts
Bethany Sherman, Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications
+1 212 401 8714
+1 917 836 1724
bethany.sherman@nasdaq.com
Vince Palmiere, Vice President, Investor Relations
+1 212-401-8742
vincent.palmiere@nasdaq.com
 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Information set forth in this filing contains forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. OMX and NASDAQ caution readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the Offer, the proposed business combination transaction involving NASDAQ and OMX, including estimated revenue and cost synergies, the Combined Group's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts. Additional risks and factors are identified in NASDAQ's filings with the U.S. Securities Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), including its Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006 which is available on NASDAQ's website at http://www.NASDAQ.com and the SEC's website at SEC's website at www.sec.gov. and in OMX's filings with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority (Sw. Finansinspektionen) (the "SFSA") including its annual report for 2006, which is available on OMX's website at http://www.omxgroup.com. The parties undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Notice to OMX shareholders
While the Offer is being made to all holders of OMX shares, this document does not constitute an offer to purchase, sell or exchange or the solicitation of an offer to purchase, sell or exchange any securities of OMX or an offer to purchase, sell or exchange or the solicitation of an offer to purchase, sell or exchange any securities of NASDAQ in any jurisdiction in which the making of the Offer or the acceptance of any tender of shares therein would not be made in compliance with the laws of such jurisdiction. In particular, the Offer is not being made, directly or indirectly, in or into Australia, Canada, Japan or South Africa. While NASDAQ reserves the right to make the Offer in or into the United Kingdom or any other jurisdiction pursuant to applicable exceptions or following appropriate filings and prospectus or equivalent document publication by NASDAQ in such jurisdictions, pending such filings or publications and in the absence of any such exception the Offer is not made in any such jurisdiction.
Additional Information about this Transaction
In connection with the proposed business combination transaction, OMX and NASDAQ expect that NASDAQ will file with the SEC a Registration Statement on Form S-4 that will include a proxy statement of NASDAQ that also constitutes a prospectus of NASDAQ. You may obtain a free copy of those documents (if and when available) and other related documents filed by NASDAQ with the SEC at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. The proxy statement/prospectus (if and when it becomes available) and the other documents may also be obtained for free by accessing NASDAQ's website at http://www.nasdaq.com and OMX's website at http://www.omxgroup.com.
Investors and security holders are urged to read the proxy statement/prospectus and any amendments and other applicable documents regarding the proposed business combination transaction if and when they become available because they will contain important information.
NASDAQ and its directors and executive officers and other members of management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from NASDAQ stockholders in respect of the transactions described in this communication. You can find information about NASDAQ's executive officers and directors in NASDAQ's definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on April 20, 2007. You can obtain free copies of these documents and of the proxy statement prospectus (when it becomes available) from NASDAQ by accessing its website at http://www.nasdaq.com. Additional information regarding the interests of such potential participants will be included in the proxy statement/prospectus and the other relevant documents filed with the SEC when they become available.
 
The boards of directors of The NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc. and OMX AB (publ) hereby jointly announce that they have entered into a Transaction Agreement to combine the two companies, creating the world's premier exchange and technology company. The Combination will be effected through a cash and stock tender offer by NASDAQ for all outstanding shares in OMX.
1. Background to and Reasons for the Offer and the Combination between NASDAQ and OMX
The exchange industry is undergoing a period of unprecedented change. These changes emanate from every aspect of our businesses, including an increasingly competitive environment, significant opportunities stemming from regulatory change, and the continued globalization of the investment industry. NASDAQ and OMX each have the strategic vision to be at the forefront of these changes, with a culture of innovation and flexibility, and the ambition to be an agile and global force in the rapidly growing and developing exchange industry.
Each of NASDAQ and OMX is an innovator of electronic trading with technology as the foundation of their businesses. The Combination brings together two companies with a common culture and vision of innovation, competitiveness and pioneering technological expertise. The NASDAQ OMX Group combines two highly complementary businesses, uniting NASDAQ's leading global brand, highly efficient electronic trading platform and track record of customer focused innovation with OMX's global technology services platform and customer base, efficient Nordic Exchange, multi-asset class capabilities and track record of successful cross-border exchange integrations.
NASDAQ and OMX have been drivers of competition in the exchange industry. NASDAQ has experienced 25 percent growth in matched trading volume across all US equities in the past year as regulatory developments have resulted in an increase in client demand for fast, efficient electronic trading. OMX has experienced 38 percent average annual growth in trading volumes in its cash markets business over the past three years, has substantially increased its market share in globally listed shares such as Nokia and Ericsson, and is providing technology platforms to new players in established markets. The Combination will leverage NASDAQ's and OMX's experiences to capitalize on new opportunities in the increasingly competitive exchange trading sector.
The Combined Group is expected to be the partner of choice for future cooperation and consolidation opportunities with increased financial and managerial resources. The Combined Group will be well positioned to drive organic growth and to continue to take a proactive role in sector consolidation, in Europe, emerging markets, the Americas and Asia.
OMX has been a pioneer in creating a truly integrated cross-border stock market. OMX has also created a world-renowned technology customer base of equities, debt, and derivatives exchanges with 60 clients in 50 countries worldwide, including Hong Kong, Singapore, Australia, and the US. NASDAQ pioneered electronic trading, and has continued to innovate over the last thirty years and now has the fastest, most efficient trading platform in the US. Together, we will provide the technology for the world's increasingly competitive and demanding capital markets. In addition, each company has a proven track record of participation in industry consolidation with successful integration of exchanges and trading platforms resulting in strong revenue and cost synergies.
 
This compelling Combination forms:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please see section 3 below for more information on synergies.
In summary, NASDAQ and OMX believe the Combined Group will create the world's premier global exchange technology company.
2. Benefits to Customers and Other Stakeholders
Both NASDAQ and OMX support the view that capital markets growth and development are promoted by transparent and efficient trading and technology development. This is achieved through close cooperation and collaboration between exchanges, issuers, members, investors and regulators. The efficiencies resulting from the Combination will be reflected in greater liquidity, reduced costs of trading, lower fees for members and investors and lower cost of capital for issuers. NASDAQ and OMX each have a track record of reducing operational costs while simultaneously improving customer service.
 
will benefit from deeper pools of liquidity and higher trading volumes, a common IT infrastructure and interface for both exchange companies, access to more products and positive portfolio diversification.
Investors and members
will benefit from increased visibility and direct access to the largest investor base in the world. Increased trading activity and liquidity is also expected to reduce the cost of capital for issuers.
Issuers
will continue to benefit from the market insight the Combined Group derives from its direct participation in capital markets. Combined expertise will accelerate the development of the next generation of exchange technology at a time when investors and members are increasingly demanding multi-asset class trading platforms.
Technology customers
will receive richer content and improved global distribution. The market data will allow NASDAQ OMX to leverage its product expertise and develop a range of combined indices incorporating complementary stocks and derivatives from existing indices.
Data providers and vendors
The Combination also provides a unique opportunity for the Nordic markets by placing them at the heart of the rapid consolidation of the exchange sector and becoming a key component of a world-leading company in the exchange industry. The OMX regulatory model will be unaffected by the Combination and the Combined Group will be well-positioned as an attractive partner with the capacity to compete effectively with other exchanges and continue consolidation across Europe and globally.
3. Benefits to Shareholders
NASDAQ and OMX have significant experience in integrating exchanges domestically and cross-border and delivering synergies. The Combination is expected to create significant value for both companies' shareholders through the realisation of pre-tax annual cost and revenue synergies of approximately $150 million (SEK1,025 million) from 2010. Annual pre-tax cost synergies are estimated at approximately $100 million (SEK683 million) in 2010. The Combination is expected to be accretive to earnings per share in 2009.
Based on their successful integration track records, NASDAQ and OMX believe that they will deliver the following cost synergies:
 
 
 
 
Both OMX and NASDAQ have established track records of delivering increased revenues through their acquisitions of other exchanges and trading platforms and valued-added service providers. Identified pre-tax annual revenue synergies are expected to amount to $50 million (SEK342 million) achieved over three years.
 
 
 
 
Non-recurring pre-tax costs to achieve these synergies are expected to be $150 million (SEK1,025 million), which would be incurred in the two years following completion of the Transaction.
4. Company Structure and Branding
The Combined Group will be structured as a US holding company, named The NASDAQ OMX Group Inc., the shares of which will be listed on NASDAQ and on OMX Nordic Exchange.
The Combined Group's headquarters will be located in New York, which will also be the centre of operations for the group's US cash trading business. The Combined Group's technology business and Nordic trading business will continue to be managed as today. The Combined Group will establish a new London presence to capitalize on international growth opportunities.
The name and branding of the existing local exchanges within the Combined Group will remain unchanged.
5. Governance and Management
The board of directors of the Combined Group will consist of 15 members, including nine representatives from NASDAQ, five representatives from OMX and the Chief Executive Officer of the Combined Group. The Chairman will be elected by the board of directors of the Combined Group. The Deputy Chairman will be designated by OMX.
It is proposed that Robert Greifeld, currently President and Chief Executive Officer of NASDAQ, will serve as Chief Executive Officer of the Combined Group. It is proposed that Magnus Bcker, currently President and Chief Executive Officer of OMX, will become President of the Combined Group.
The Combined Group will have a balanced management team and organization reflecting the experience, expertise and activities that each party brings to the Combination.
6. Employees
OMX and NASDAQ each operate strong exchange companies which are recognized as being among the best for employees in the market. Following the proposed Transaction, the Combined Group's strategy will be to grow volume and broaden its customer base, combining the strengths of both companies. In this context, the proposed Transaction will create enhanced career opportunities for employees of the Combined Group. All existing contracts will be honored.
 
Separately from the Offer, NASDAQ and OMX will offer participants of OMX's existing stock option plans and share match plans fair treatment in respect of their entitlements under the respective plans.
7. Regulatory Issues
The Combination of NASDAQ and OMX will require consent or approval from relevant financial supervisory authorities and competition authorities.
Each of the Combined Group's markets will continue to be regulated in accordance with local requirements. Specifically, OMX's markets will continue to be regulated by their existing regulators, and the SEC will continue to regulate NASDAQ's US markets only. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act will continue to be exclusively applicable to companies registered in the US.
8. Dividend Policy
The dividend policy of the Combined Group will be determined by the board of the Combined Group.
9. Financial Effects of the Offer
The Transaction is expected to create substantial shareholder value and be accretive to earnings per share in 2009.
10. Financing of the Offer
Assuming full acceptance of the Offer, approximately 60.6 million new NASDAQ shares will be issued pursuant to the Offer and the total cash consideration amount payable by NASDAQ to OMX shareholders will be approximately $1.7 billion (SEK11.4 billion).
The Offer will not be subject to any conditions concerning the availability of financing. Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (the "Banks") have agreed to finance the cash consideration of the Offer pursuant to a commitment letter subject to all parties entering into definitive documentation. However, if definitive documentation is not entered into by the date on which the Offer is launched, the Banks will finance the cash consideration of the Offer by means of an interim loan agreement (the "Interim Loan Agreement") which provides for committed funds and which is attached as an exhibit to the commitment letter.
Drawdown pursuant to the Interim Loan Agreement is subject to the conditions of the Offer being satisfied or waived (where such waiver requires consents from the Banks in certain cases and under certain circumstances). The additional conditions to drawdown under the Interim Loan Agreement, which NASDAQ and its owners in practice control, are essentially that:
 
 
 
 
11. Key Terms and Conditions of the Offer
11.1 The Offer
The Offer to the OMX shareholders consists of a mixture of cash and new NASDAQ shares as consideration which values each OMX share at SEK208.1 based on the assumptions set out in section 11.2 below. For every 100 OMX shares tendered, each OMX shareholder will receive SEK9,430 in cash and 50.2 new NASDAQ shares, equivalent to 0.502 NASDAQ shares and SEK94.3 in cash per OMX share.
NASDAQ is offering each OMX shareholder:
4
 
 
As an alternative, OMX shareholders with 200 or fewer OMX shares are entitled to elect to receive a guaranteed Cash Consideration of SEK208.1 per OMX share.
NASDAQ reserves the right to introduce a mix and match facility which will enable OMX shareholders to elect to tender a higher proportion of their OMX shares in return for the Cash Consideration or to tender a higher proportion of their OMX shares in exchange for the Share Consideration, subject to matching elections by other OMX shareholders. The total number of new NASDAQ shares to be issued under the Offer would not be varied as a result of elections made under such mix and match facility. If NASDAQ introduces a mix and match facility, the details of such facility will be presented in the offer document.
No commission will be charged in respect of settlement of the Offer.
NASDAQ does not own any shares or other financial instruments in OMX.
11.2 Offer Value and Premium
Based on a closing price for NASDAQ shares of $33.19 on NASDAQ on 23 May, 2007 and a SEK/$ exchange rate of 6.83, the Offer value and Offer premium are the following:
 
 
 
 
 
 
Assuming full acceptance of the Offer, a maximum amount of approximately SEK11.4 billion ($1.7 billion) in cash is payable and a maximum number of approximately 60.6 million new NASDAQ shares will be issued under the Offer.
11.3 Fractional Entitlements
Fractions of the new NASDAQ shares will not be issued to accepting OMX shareholders. Such fractions will be sold in the market and the net proceeds will be distributed proportionally between the OMX shareholders concerned.
11.4 Completion Conditions of the Offer
Completion of the Offer is conditional upon:
 
 
 
 
 
 
5
The Swedish Securities Council (Sw Aktiemarknadsnmnden) has in the ruling AMN 2007:18 stated completion conditions of this kind are consistent with good stock market practice under certain circumstances. NASDAQ and OMX agree that such circumstances are at hand.
 
 
 
 
NASDAQ reserves the right to withdraw the Offer in the event that it is clear that any of the above conditions is not fulfilled or cannot be fulfilled. However, the Offer may only be withdrawn with reference to the non-fulfillment of the conditions 3-9 above if the non-fulfillment is of material importance for NASDAQ's acquisition of the Shares in OMX.
NASDAQ reserves the right to waive, in whole or in part, one, several or all of the conditions set out above, including with respect to condition 1 above, to complete the Offer at a lower level of acceptance; provided, however, that any waiver of conditions 1, 3 or 6 shall require the prior written consent of OMX (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed), except that no waiver of condition 1 shall require such prior written consent of OMX if, when the condition is waived, the Offer is accepted to such an extent that NASDAQ becomes the owner of shares representing at least 67 percent of the outstanding shares of OMX on a fully diluted basis.
11.5 Transaction Agreement between NASDAQ and OMX
NASDAQ and OMX have entered into a Transaction Agreement in connection with the Offer. The Transaction Agreement contains, inter alia, provisions on cooperation in regard of the offer document, the registration statement and filings with the relevant authorities, provisions on corporate governance and organizational issues post closing of the Transaction and provisions on treatment of OMX employees' option and share match plans. The
 
Transaction Agreement also contains customary provisions on board recommendations, so called non-solicitation and related provisions. The full Transaction Agreement will be available in the offer document.
11.6 Irrevocable Undertakings from OMX Shareholders
Investor AB, Nordea Bank AB and Magnus Bcker, together representing approximately 16.6 percent of OMX's current issued ordinary share capital, have entered into irrevocable undertakings to accept the Offer and, if a mix and match election facility is included in the Offer, depending on the structure and the terms of the facility, they will elect to receive all shares, subject to proration. The irrevocable undertakings will or could lapse in certain circumstances including:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.7 Approval from NASDAQ Shareholders
Hellman & Friedman, Silver Lake Partners, and Robert Greifeld have each agreed to vote their shares in favor of certain matters related to the Offer at the related NASDAQ shareholders' meeting, subject to the terms of NASDAQ's certificate of incorporation.
11.8 Board Recommendations
The board of directors of OMX unanimously recommends to OMX shareholders to accept the Offer. The board of directors of OMX has received fairness opinions from Morgan Stanley & Co. Limited ("Morgan Stanley") and Credit Suisse, concluding that, in their opinion and subject to the qualifications and assumptions set out therein, the Offer consideration is fair from a financial point of view to the shareholders of OMX. The full opinion of the board and the fairness opinions will be included in the offer document.
The board of directors of NASDAQ consider the terms of the Offer to be in the best interests of NASDAQ and the NASDAQ shareholders as a whole, and unanimously recommends that the NASDAQ shareholders vote in favor of the resolutions to be proposed at the shareholders' meeting of NASDAQ to be held in connection with the Offer.
 
11.9 Due Diligence
After approval by the board of directors of OMX, NASDAQ has conducted a limited due diligence review of certain business, financial and legal information relating to OMX.
OMX has conducted a limited due diligence review of certain business, financial and legal information relating to NASDAQ.
11.10 Governing Law
The Offer shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Sweden. The Takeover Rules issued by the Stockholm Stock Exchange and the Swedish Securities Council's rulings regarding interpretation and application of the Takeover Rules (including its rulings with respect to the Rules on Public Offers for the Acquisition of Shares issued by the Swedish Industry and Commerce Stock Exchange Committee) apply in relation to the Offer. Furthermore, in accordance with the Swedish Takeover Act, NASDAQ has contractually agreed with the Stockholm Stock Exchange to comply with the foregoing and to submit to any sanctions imposed by the Stockholm Stock Exchange upon breach of the Takeover Rules. The courts of Sweden shall have exclusive jurisdiction over any dispute arising out of or in connection with the Offer and the City Court of Stockholm shall be the court of first instance.
12. Listing of and Trading in the NASDAQ OMX share
The NASDAQ OMX share will be listed on NASDAQ and on the OMX Nordic Exchange.
Further details on listing, admission to trading and dealings in the NASDAQ share will be included in the offer document.
13. Compulsory Acquisition and Delisting
In the event that NASDAQ (whether in connection with the Offer or otherwise) obtains more than 90 percent of OMX's issued share capital on a fully diluted basis, NASDAQ intends to commence a compulsory acquisition procedure under the Swedish Companies Act to acquire all remaining OMX shares. In connection therewith, NASDAQ intends to promote a de-listing of the OMX share from the Stockholm Stock Exchange and the marketplaces where there is a secondary listing of the OMX share.
14. Indicative Timetable
An offer document regarding the Offer and a retail shareholder information brochure will be published. These documents are expected to be published during the third quarter of 2007.
6
The acceptance period will commence promptly following the publishing of the offer document, and will last for no less than 20 business days. NASDAQ reserves the right to extend the acceptance period and to defer the date for settlement subject to applicable law and the Transaction Agreement.
The completion of the Offer is conditional upon the satisfaction of certain conditions as set out in section 11.4 above, including expiration of the Hart-Scott-Rodino waiting period and
6
The Swedish Securities Council (Sw "Aktiemarknadsnmnden") has extended the time period for preparing and filing the Swedish offer document from 4 weeks to 10 weeks due primarily to extensive filing requirements in the US, see ruling AMN 2007:19. Further extensions may be granted if necessary
 
receipt of anti-trust and full regulatory approvals and NASDAQ shareholder approval. NASDAQ and OMX expects the Offer is to be completed by year-end 2007. Further details regarding the publication of these documents and the timetable for the Offer period will follow in a separate press release in due course.
15. Advisors
JPMorgan is acting as exclusive financial advisor to NASDAQ in relation to the transaction and will not be responsible for providing the protections afforded to their client to any other person. Advokatfirman Cederquist and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP are serving as legal advisors to NASDAQ in relation to the Transaction. Morgan Stanley, Lenner & Partners and Credit Suisse are acting as financial advisors to OMX in relation to the transaction and will not be responsible for providing the protections afforded to their client to any other person. Advokatfirman Vinge and Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP are serving as legal advisors to OMX in relation to the Transaction.
16. Information on OMX
OMX is a leading expert in the exchange industry. Through the Nordic Exchange, OMX offers access to approximately 80 percent of the Nordic and Baltic securities market. The Nordic Exchange is a term used for marketing purposes and is not a legal entity. It describes the common offering from the Helsinki Stock Exchange, Copenhagen Stock Exchange, Stockholm Stock Exchange, Iceland Stock Exchange, Tallinn Stock Exchange, Riga Stock Exchange and Vilnius Stock Exchange. OMX integrated technology solutions cross the transaction chain enabling efficient securities transactions for over 60 exchange organizations in more than 50 countries. OMX is a Nordic Large Cap company in the Financials sector on the OMX Nordic Exchange.
OMX key statistics as of Q1, 2007:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17. Information on NASDAQ
NASDAQ is the largest US electronic stock market. With approximately 3,200 companies, it lists more companies and, on average, trades more shares per day than any other US market. It is home to companies that are leaders across all areas of business including technology, retail, communications, financial services, transportation, media and biotechnology. NASDAQ is the primary market for trading NASDAQ-listed stocks.
NASDAQ key statistics as of Q1, 2007:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Information set forth in this filing contains forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. OMX and NASDAQ caution readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the Offer, the proposed business combination transaction involving NASDAQ and OMX, including estimated revenue and cost synergies, the Combined Group's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts. Additional risks and factors are identified in NASDAQ's filings with the U.S. Securities Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), including its Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006 which is available on NASDAQ's website at http://www.NASDAQ.com and the SEC's website at SEC's website at www.sec.gov. and in OMX's filings with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority (Sw. Finansinspektionen) (the "SFSA") including its annual report for 2006, which is available on OMX's website at http://www.omxgroup.com. The parties undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Notice to OMX shareholders
While the Offer is being made to all holders of OMX shares, this document does not constitute an offer to purchase, sell or exchange or the solicitation of an offer to purchase, sell or exchange any securities of OMX or an offer to purchase, sell or exchange or the solicitation of an offer to purchase, sell or exchange any securities of NASDAQ in any jurisdiction in which the making of the Offer or the acceptance of any tender of shares therein would not be made in compliance with the laws of such jurisdiction. In particular, the Offer is not being made, directly or indirectly, in or into Australia, Canada, Japan or South Africa. While NASDAQ reserves the right to make the Offer in or into the United Kingdom or any other jurisdiction pursuant to applicable exceptions or following appropriate filings and prospectus or equivalent document publication by NASDAQ in such jurisdictions, pending such filings or publications and in the absence of any such exception the Offer is not made in any such jurisdiction.
Additional Information About this Transaction
In connection with the proposed business combination transaction, OMX and NASDAQ expect that NASDAQ will file with the SEC a Registration Statement on Form S-4 that will include a proxy statement of NASDAQ that also constitutes a prospectus of NASDAQ. You may obtain a free copy of those documents (if and when available) and other related documents filed by NASDAQ with the SEC at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. The proxy statement/prospectus (if and when it becomes available) and the other documents may also be obtained for free by accessing NASDAQ's website at http://www.nasdaq.com and OMX's website at http://www.omxgroup.com.
Investors and security holders are urged to read the proxy statement/prospectus and any amendments and other applicable documents regarding the proposed business combination transaction if and when they become available because they will contain important information.
NASDAQ and its directors and executive officers and other members of management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from NASDAQ stockholders in respect of the transactions described in this communication. You can find information about NASDAQ's executive officers and directors in NASDAQ's definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on April 20, 2007. You can obtain free copies of these documents and of the proxy statement prospectus (when it becomes available) from NASDAQ by accessing NASDAQ's website. Additional information regarding the interests of such potential participants will be included in the proxy statement/prospectus and the other relevant documents filed with the SEC when they become available.
 

Exhibit 10.2
EXECUTION VERSION
IRREVOCABLE UNDERTAKING
This irrevocable undertaking (this "Undertaking") is made on May 25, 2007
BETWEEN:
 
 
Nasdaq and Shareholder are hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Parties" and individually as a "Party".
BACKGROUND:
 
 
IT IS AGREED as follows:
 
 
 
 
It is understood that Shareholder undertakings are not applicable to or bind any of the individual board members of OMX acting in such capacity.
 
 
 
 
A condition precedent for this Undertaking to enter into force is that:
(a) the Offer is made through a public announcement of the Offer Announcement on or before 25 May, 2007 and
(b) the Offer is recommended by the board of directors of OMX, and
(c) Nordea Bank AB and Magnus Bcker entering into irrevocable undertakings similar to this one; in the absence of which Shareholder will have no obligations hereunder.
 
 
 
 
(a) the Registration Statement on Form S-4 in relation to the Offer not being completed and submitted to Securities and Exchange Commission on or before August 15, 2007;
(b) Nasdaq waives the acceptance level condition and declares the Offer unconditional without the Shareholder's consent and at the time of such waiver has not reached an acceptance level of 2/3 of the OMX shares (including shares subject to irrevocable undertakings, whether yet delivered for acceptance or not);
 
(c) during the term of this Agreement, any dividend is declared by Nasdaq without the Shareholder's consent prior to the Offer being completed or having lapsed or been withdrawn;
(d) the recommendation of the Offer by the board of OMX being withdrawn;
(e) the Offer is not being declared unconditional before December 15, 2007;
(f) if a material adverse change in Nasdaq's financial position or operation, which could not have been reasonably known or anticipated by Shareholder at the time of entering into this undertaking, has become known to the Shareholder and could have a materially adverse effect on Nasdaq's liquidity, sales, results, equity or stock price; or
(h) any information made public by Nasdaq or disclosed by Nasdaq to Shareholder or OMX is materially inaccurate, incomplete or misleading.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Undertaking shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Sweden. Any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of, or in connection with, this
 
Undertaking, or the breach, termination or invalidity of the Undertaking, shall be settled by arbitration in accordance with the Rules of the Arbitration Institute of the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce. The place of arbitration shall be Stockholm, Sweden. The language to be used in the arbitral proceedings shall be English.
 
This Undertaking has been duly executed in two (2) original copies, of which each of the Parties has taken one (1) copy.
Friday, May 25, 2007
 
 

Exhibit 10.3
EXECUTION VERSION
IRREVOCABLE UNDERTAKING
This irrevocable undertaking (this "Undertaking") is made on May 25, 2007
BETWEEN:
 
 
Nasdaq and Shareholder are hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Parties" and individually as a "Party".
BACKGROUND:
 
 
IT IS AGREED as follows:
 
 
 
 
It is understood that Shareholder undertakings are not applicable to or bind any of the individual board members of OMX acting in such capacity.
 
 
 
 
A condition precedent for this Undertaking to enter into force is that:
(a) the Offer is made through a public announcement of the Offer Announcement on or before 25 May, 2007 and
(b) the Offer is recommended by the board of directors of OMX, and
(c) Investor AB and Magnus Bcker entering into irrevocable undertakings similar to this one; in the absence of which Shareholder will have no obligations hereunder.
 
 
 
 
(a) the Registration Statement on Form S-4 in relation to the Offer not being completed and submitted to Securities and Exchange Commission on or before August 15, 2007;
(b) Nasdaq waives the acceptance level condition and declares the Offer unconditional without the Shareholder's consent and at the time of such waiver has not reached an acceptance level of 2/3 of the OMX shares (including shares subject to irrevocable undertakings, whether yet delivered for acceptance or not);
 
(c) during the term of this Agreement, any dividend is declared by Nasdaq without the Shareholder's consent prior to the Offer being completed or having lapsed or been withdrawn;
(d) the recommendation of the Offer by the board of OMX being withdrawn;
(e) the Offer is not being declared unconditional before December 15, 2007;
(f) if a material adverse change in Nasdaq's financial position or operation, which could not have been reasonably known or anticipated by Shareholder at the time of entering into this undertaking, has become known to the Shareholder and could have a materially adverse effect on Nasdaq's liquidity, sales, results, equity or stock price; or
(h) any information made public by Nasdaq or disclosed by Nasdaq to Shareholder or OMX is materially inaccurate, incomplete or misleading.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Undertaking shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Sweden. Any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of, or in connection with, this
 
Undertaking, or the breach, termination or invalidity of the Undertaking, shall be settled by arbitration in accordance with the Rules of the Arbitration Institute of the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce. The place of arbitration shall be Stockholm, Sweden. The language to be used in the arbitral proceedings shall be English.
 
This Undertaking has been duly executed in two (2) original copies, of which each of the Parties has taken one (1) copy.
Friday, May 25, 2007
 
 

Exhibit 10.4
EXECUTION VERSION
IRREVOCABLE UNDERTAKING
This irrevocable undertaking (this "Undertaking") is made on May 25, 2007
BETWEEN:
 
 
Nasdaq and Shareholder are hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Parties" and individually as a "Party".
BACKGROUND:
(A) Nasdaq intends to make a public tender offer to the holders of shares in OMX AB, a company duly incorporated and organized under the laws of Sweden, with corporate registration number 556243-8001 ("OMX"), to tender all of the shares in OMX on the terms and conditions set forth in the press release (the "Offer") attached as (the "Offer Announcement").
Appendix A
(B) Shareholder is the owner of 140.822 shares (the "Shares") in OMX, and has, in order to encourage Nasdaq ("the Offeror") to make the offer, agreed to make the irrevocable undertaking contemplated herein.
IT IS AGREED as follows:
 
 
 
to exercise all voting rights attaching to the Shares in such manner as to enable the Offer to become unconditional and to oppose the taking of any action or approval of any resolution which may result in any condition of the Offer not being satisfied or which may otherwise prejudice or frustrate the Offer and (v) to the extent that any of the Shares are not registered in its name, to procure the registered holder(s) to act in accordance with the terms of this Undertaking.
 
It is understood that Shareholder undertakings are not applicable to or bind any of the individual board members of OMX acting in such capacity.
 
 
 
 
A condition precedent for this Undertaking to enter into force is that:
(a) the Offer is made through a public announcement of the Offer Announcement on or before 25 May, 2007 and
(b) the Offer is recommended by the board of directors of OMX, and
(c) Nordea Bank AB and Investor AB entering into irrevocable undertakings similar to this one; in the absence of which Shareholder will have no obligations hereunder.
 
 
 
 
(a) the Registration Statement on Form S-4 in relation to the Offer not being completed and submitted to Securities and Exchange Commission on or before August 15, 2007;
(b) Nasdaq waives the acceptance level condition and declares the Offer unconditional without the Shareholder's consent and at the time of such waiver has not reached an acceptance level of 2/3 of the OMX shares (including shares subject to irrevocable undertakings, whether yet delivered for acceptance or not);
 
(c) during the term of this Agreement, any dividend is declared by Nasdaq without the Shareholder's consent prior to the Offer being completed or having lapsed or been withdrawn;
(d) the recommendation of the Offer by the board of OMX being withdrawn;
(e) the Offer is not being declared unconditional before December 15, 2007;
(f) if a material adverse change in Nasdaq's financial position or operation, which could not have been reasonably known or anticipated by Shareholder at the time of entering into this undertaking, has become known to the Shareholder and could have a materially adverse effect on Nasdaq's liquidity, sales, results, equity or stock price; or
(h) any information made public by Nasdaq or disclosed by Nasdaq to Shareholder or OMX is materially inaccurate, incomplete or misleading.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
This Undertaking shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Sweden. Any dispute, controversy or claim arising out of, or in connection with, this
 
Undertaking, or the breach, termination or invalidity of the Undertaking, shall be settled by arbitration in accordance with the Rules of the Arbitration Institute of the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce. The place of arbitration shall be Stockholm, Sweden. The language to be used in the arbitral proceedings shall be English.
 
This Undertaking has been duly executed in two (2) original copies, of which each of the Parties has taken one (1) copy.
Friday, May 25, 2007
 
 


