FILE:NDAQ/NDAQ-8K-20070525061201.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01. Other Events.
On May 25, 2007, The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. ("Nasdaq") and OMX AB ("OMX") issued a press release announcing that they have entered into an agreement to combine the two companies through a cash and stock tender offer by Nasdaq for all outstanding shares of OMX. A copy of the press release is attached to this Current Report on Form 8-K as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: May 25, 2007
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Joint Press Release, 25 May, 2007
The boards of directors of The NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc. ("NASDAQ") and OMX AB (publ) ("OMX") jointly announce that they have entered into an agreement (the "Transaction Agreement") to combine the two companies (the "Combination" or the "Transaction"), creating the world's premier exchange and technology company. The Combination will create the largest global network of exchanges and exchange customers linked by technology. The Combination will provide significant benefits for customers, shareholders and other stakeholders in both companies.
The new group, to be called The NASDAQ OMX Group (the "Combined Group"), brings together two companies with a common culture and vision of innovation, competitiveness and pioneering technological expertise. NASDAQ OMX Group combines two highly complementary businesses, uniting NASDAQ's leading global brand, highly efficient electronic trading platform and track record of customer focused innovation with OMX's global technology services platform and customer base, efficient Nordic Exchange, derivatives capabilities and track record of successful cross-border exchange integrations.
The Combination will be effected through a cash and stock tender offer (the "Offer") by NASDAQ for all outstanding shares in OMX. The consideration offered is equivalent to 0.502 new NASDAQ shares plus SEK94.3 in cash for each OMX share. Based on NASDAQ's closing price on 23 May, 2007, the Offer values OMX at SEK208.1 per share
1
, equivalent to SEK25.1 billion ($3.7 billion) and represents a premium of 19 percent to the closing price of SEK174.5 per OMX share on 23 May, 2007, the last full trading day prior to the announcement of the Offer and a premium of 25 percent to the volume weighted average price of SEK165.9 per OMX share over the 20 trading days up to and including 23 May, 2007.
Robert Greifeld, Chief Executive Officer of NASDAQ, commented:
"The future of exchanges is about technology, flexibility and scale. NASDAQ and OMX together deliver all of these benefits. Our technology leadership and track record in linking trading platforms means we will offer issuers and investors unique benefits which were not available in one company until now. This combination provides our organizations with the ability to grow and accelerate the global flow of equity capital. At the same time, it provides us with an excellent platform for further expansion into derivatives and other asset classes. Our organizations bring together very complementary businesses, and we see many new opportunities for growth in an era of unprecedented change and development for exchanges."
Magnus Bcker, Chief Executive Officer of OMX, commented:
"This combination creates a new leader in the exchange industry. By utilizing the combined entities' joint expertise and competencies we will create an outstanding platform for future growth. Issuers, members, information vendors and investors on both NASDAQ and OMX Nordic Exchange will all benefit from its new global context. The combination also provides benefits for OMX's global technology customer base, as it enables an increased focus on research and product development in the most important and fastest growing areas of the exchange technology market."
H. Furlong Baldwin, Chairman of NASDAQ, commented:
"We are each coming at this combination from a position of strength. At NASDAQ, we are privileged to be partnering with such a reputable institution as the OMX."
Urban Bckstrm, Chairman of OMX, commented:
"For OMX, as a company that has always been known for its innovative and ground-breaking approach within the exchange industry, this is the natural next step. This will also strengthen the Nordic region as a financial center."
The Combined Group will have 2,349 employees in 22 countries with pro forma revenues for the financial year 2006 of more than $1.2 billion (SEK8.3 billion). The relative values of the companies under the terms of the Offer and based on NASDAQ's closing share price as of 23 May, 2007 are 58 percent NASDAQ and 42 percent OMX. The pro forma market capitalization of The NASDAQ OMX Group will be approximately $7.1 billion (SEK48.6 billion)
2
, of which NASDAQ shareholders will own approximately 72 percent and OMX shareholders will hold approximately 28 percent as a result of the cash component of the Offer.
3
The Combined Group will be governed by representatives from both NASDAQ and OMX under the leadership of Robert Greifeld, who will serve as Chief Executive Officer and Magnus
 
Bcker, who will serve as President. The board of directors of the Combined Group will consist of 15 members, including nine representatives from NASDAQ, five representatives from OMX and the Chief Executive Officer of the Combined Group. The NASDAQ OMX share will be listed on NASDAQ and on OMX Nordic Exchange.
The Combination is unanimously recommended by the boards of directors of each of OMX and NASDAQ. Investor AB, Nordea Bank AB and Magnus Bcker, together representing approximately 16.6 percent of OMX's current issued ordinary share capital, have entered into irrevocable undertakings to accept the Offer and, if a mix and match facility is included in the Offer, depending on the structure and the terms of the facility, they will elect to receive all shares, subject to proration. Olof Stenhammar & Company, representing approximately 1.6 percent of OMX's current issued ordinary share capital, has expressed its support for the Combination and its intention to become a long term shareholder in the Combined Group. In addition, Hellman & Friedman, Silver Lake Partners, and Robert Greifeld have each agreed to vote their shares in favor of certain matters related to the Offer at the related NASDAQ shareholders' meeting, subject to the terms of NASDAQ's certificate of incorporation.
The Combination will create:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The Combination is expected to create substantial value for shareholders and to be accretive to earnings per share in 2009.
This summary should be read in conjunction with the text of the attached full announcement.
A joint press and analyst conference regarding the Offer and Combination of NASDAQ and OMX will be held today at 10.00am CET at OMX Headquarters, Tullvaktsvgen 15, Stockholm. If you are unable to attend the meeting in person, you can listen via:
Sweden: +46(0)850520270
UK: +44(0)2088179301
US: +1 7183541226
The presentation will also be webcast and can be found on
www.omxgroup.com
and on
www.nasdaq.com
In addition NASDAQ and OMX will host a second conference call for the benefit of US based analysts and investors, to be held at 8.00am EDT:
Title: NASDAQ Conference Call
Domestic dial-in: 866-765-6327
International dial-in: +1 913-312-6621
And at 9.00am EDT, there will be a press call:
Title: NASDAQ Conference Call
Domestic dial-in: 800 810-0924
International Q&A: +1 913 981-4900
 
A presentation on the Combination will be available today on NASDAQ's (
www.nasdaq.com
) and OMX's (
www.omxgroup.com
) websites.
For further information please contact:
OMX Contacts
Jonas Rodny, Senior Communications Manager
+46 8 405 72 67
jonas.rodny@omxgroup.com
Heidi Wendt, Vice President, Corporate Communications
+46 8 405 72 93
heidi.wendt@omxgroup.com
NASDAQ Contacts
Bethany Sherman, Senior Vice President, Corporate Communications
+1 212 401 8714
+1 917 836 1724
bethany.sherman@nasdaq.com
Vince Palmiere, Vice President, Investor Relations
+1 212-401-8742
vincent.palmiere@nasdaq.com
 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Information set forth in this filing contains forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. OMX and NASDAQ caution readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the Offer, the proposed business combination transaction involving NASDAQ and OMX, including estimated revenue and cost synergies, the Combined Group's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts. Additional risks and factors are identified in NASDAQ's filings with the U.S. Securities Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), including its Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006 which is available on NASDAQ's website at
http://www.NASDAQ.com
and the SEC's website at SEC's website at
www.sec.gov.
and in OMX's filings with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority (Sw. Finansinspektionen) (the "SFSA") including its annual report for 2006, which is available on OMX's website at
http://www.omxgroup.com
. The parties undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Notice to OMX shareholders
While the Offer is being made to all holders of OMX shares, this document does not constitute an offer to purchase, sell or exchange or the solicitation of an offer to purchase, sell or exchange any securities of OMX or an offer to purchase, sell or exchange or the solicitation of an offer to purchase, sell or exchange any securities of NASDAQ in any jurisdiction in which the making of the Offer or the acceptance of any tender of shares therein would not be made in compliance with the laws of such jurisdiction. In particular, the Offer is not being made, directly or indirectly, in or into Australia, Canada, Japan or South Africa. While NASDAQ reserves the right to make the Offer in or into the United Kingdom or any other jurisdiction pursuant to applicable exceptions or following appropriate filings and prospectus or equivalent document publication by NASDAQ in such jurisdictions, pending such filings or publications and in the absence of any such exception the Offer is not made in any such jurisdiction.
Additional Information about this Transaction
In connection with the proposed business combination transaction, OMX and NASDAQ expect that NASDAQ will file with the SEC a Registration Statement on Form S-4 that will include a proxy statement of NASDAQ that also constitutes a prospectus of NASDAQ. You may obtain a free copy of those documents (if and when available) and other related documents filed by NASDAQ with the SEC at the SEC's website at
Investors and security holders are urged to read the proxy statement/prospectus and any amendments and other applicable documents regarding the proposed business combination transaction if and when they become available because they will contain important information.
www.sec.gov
. The proxy statement/prospectus (if and when it becomes available) and the other documents may also be obtained for free by accessing NASDAQ's website at 
http://www.nasdaq.com
and OMX's website at
http://www.omxgroup.com
.
NASDAQ and its directors and executive officers and other members of management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from NASDAQ stockholders in respect of the transactions described in this communication. You can find information about NASDAQ's executive officers and directors in NASDAQ's definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on April 20, 2007. You can obtain free copies of these documents and of the proxy statement prospectus (when it becomes available) from NASDAQ by accessing its website at
http://www.nasdaq.com
. Additional information regarding the interests of such potential participants will be included in the proxy statement/prospectus and the other relevant documents filed with the SEC when they become available.
 
The boards of directors of The NASDAQ Stock Market, Inc. and OMX AB (publ) hereby jointly announce that they have entered into a Transaction Agreement to combine the two companies, creating the world's premier exchange and technology company. The Combination will be effected through a cash and stock tender offer by NASDAQ for all outstanding shares in OMX.
1. Background to and Reasons for the Offer and the Combination between NASDAQ and OMX
The exchange industry is undergoing a period of unprecedented change. These changes emanate from every aspect of our businesses, including an increasingly competitive environment, significant opportunities stemming from regulatory change, and the continued globalization of the investment industry. NASDAQ and OMX each have the strategic vision to be at the forefront of these changes, with a culture of innovation and flexibility, and the ambition to be an agile and global force in the rapidly growing and developing exchange industry.
Each of NASDAQ and OMX is an innovator of electronic trading with technology as the foundation of their businesses. The Combination brings together two companies with a common culture and vision of innovation, competitiveness and pioneering technological expertise. The NASDAQ OMX Group combines two highly complementary businesses, uniting NASDAQ's leading global brand, highly efficient electronic trading platform and track record of customer focused innovation with OMX's global technology services platform and customer base, efficient Nordic Exchange, multi-asset class capabilities and track record of successful cross-border exchange integrations.
NASDAQ and OMX have been drivers of competition in the exchange industry. NASDAQ has experienced 25 percent growth in matched trading volume across all US equities in the past year as regulatory developments have resulted in an increase in client demand for fast, efficient electronic trading. OMX has experienced 38 percent average annual growth in trading volumes in its cash markets business over the past three years, has substantially increased its market share in globally listed shares such as Nokia and Ericsson, and is providing technology platforms to new players in established markets. The Combination will leverage NASDAQ's and OMX's experiences to capitalize on new opportunities in the increasingly competitive exchange trading sector.
The Combined Group is expected to be the partner of choice for future cooperation and consolidation opportunities with increased financial and managerial resources. The Combined Group will be well positioned to drive organic growth and to continue to take a proactive role in sector consolidation, in Europe, emerging markets, the Americas and Asia.
OMX has been a pioneer in creating a truly integrated cross-border stock market. OMX has also created a world-renowned technology customer base of equities, debt, and derivatives exchanges with 60 clients in 50 countries worldwide, including Hong Kong, Singapore, Australia, and the US. NASDAQ pioneered electronic trading, and has continued to innovate over the last thirty years and now has the fastest, most efficient trading platform in the US. Together, we will provide the technology for the world's increasingly competitive and demanding capital markets. In addition, each company has a proven track record of participation in industry consolidation with successful integration of exchanges and trading platforms resulting in strong revenue and cost synergies.
 
This compelling Combination forms:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Please see section 3 below for more information on synergies.
In summary, NASDAQ and OMX believe the Combined Group will create the world's premier global exchange technology company.
2. Benefits to Customers and Other Stakeholders
Both NASDAQ and OMX support the view that capital markets growth and development are promoted by transparent and efficient trading and technology development. This is achieved through close cooperation and collaboration between exchanges, issuers, members, investors and regulators. The efficiencies resulting from the Combination will be reflected in greater liquidity, reduced costs of trading, lower fees for members and investors and lower cost of capital for issuers. NASDAQ and OMX each have a track record of reducing operational costs while simultaneously improving customer service.
 
will benefit from deeper pools of liquidity and higher trading volumes, a common IT infrastructure and interface for both exchange companies, access to more products and positive portfolio diversification.
Investors and members
will benefit from increased visibility and direct access to the largest investor base in the world. Increased trading activity and liquidity is also expected to reduce the cost of capital for issuers.
Issuers
will continue to benefit from the market insight the Combined Group derives from its direct participation in capital markets. Combined expertise will accelerate the development of the next generation of exchange technology at a time when investors and members are increasingly demanding multi-asset class trading platforms.
Technology customers
will receive richer content and improved global distribution. The market data will allow NASDAQ OMX to leverage its product expertise and develop a range of combined indices incorporating complementary stocks and derivatives from existing indices.
Data providers and vendors
The Combination also provides a unique opportunity for the Nordic markets by placing them at the heart of the rapid consolidation of the exchange sector and becoming a key component of a world-leading company in the exchange industry. The OMX regulatory model will be unaffected by the Combination and the Combined Group will be well-positioned as an attractive partner with the capacity to compete effectively with other exchanges and continue consolidation across Europe and globally.
3. Benefits to Shareholders
NASDAQ and OMX have significant experience in integrating exchanges domestically and cross-border and delivering synergies. The Combination is expected to create significant value for both companies' shareholders through the realisation of pre-tax annual cost and revenue synergies of approximately $150 million (SEK1,025 million) from 2010. Annual pre-tax cost synergies are estimated at approximately $100 million (SEK683 million) in 2010. The Combination is expected to be accretive to earnings per share in 2009.
Based on their successful integration track records, NASDAQ and OMX believe that they will deliver the following cost synergies:
 
 
 
 
Both OMX and NASDAQ have established track records of delivering increased revenues through their acquisitions of other exchanges and trading platforms and valued-added service providers. Identified pre-tax annual revenue synergies are expected to amount to $50 million (SEK342 million) achieved over three years.
 
 
 
 
Non-recurring pre-tax costs to achieve these synergies are expected to be $150 million (SEK1,025 million), which would be incurred in the two years following completion of the Transaction.
4. Company Structure and Branding
The Combined Group will be structured as a US holding company, named The NASDAQ OMX Group Inc., the shares of which will be listed on NASDAQ and on OMX Nordic Exchange.
The Combined Group's headquarters will be located in New York, which will also be the centre of operations for the group's US cash trading business. The Combined Group's technology business and Nordic trading business will continue to be managed as today. The Combined Group will establish a new London presence to capitalize on international growth opportunities.
The name and branding of the existing local exchanges within the Combined Group will remain unchanged.
5. Governance and Management
The board of directors of the Combined Group will consist of 15 members, including nine representatives from NASDAQ, five representatives from OMX and the Chief Executive Officer of the Combined Group. The Chairman will be elected by the board of directors of the Combined Group. The Deputy Chairman will be designated by OMX.
It is proposed that Robert Greifeld, currently President and Chief Executive Officer of NASDAQ, will serve as Chief Executive Officer of the Combined Group. It is proposed that Magnus Bcker, currently President and Chief Executive Officer of OMX, will become President of the Combined Group.
The Combined Group will have a balanced management team and organization reflecting the experience, expertise and activities that each party brings to the Combination.
6. Employees
OMX and NASDAQ each operate strong exchange companies which are recognized as being among the best for employees in the market. Following the proposed Transaction, the Combined Group's strategy will be to grow volume and broaden its customer base, combining the strengths of both companies. In this context, the proposed Transaction will create enhanced career opportunities for employees of the Combined Group. All existing contracts will be honored.
 
Separately from the Offer, NASDAQ and OMX will offer participants of OMX's existing stock option plans and share match plans fair treatment in respect of their entitlements under the respective plans.
7. Regulatory Issues
The Combination of NASDAQ and OMX will require consent or approval from relevant financial supervisory authorities and competition authorities.
Each of the Combined Group's markets will continue to be regulated in accordance with local requirements. Specifically, OMX's markets will continue to be regulated by their existing regulators, and the SEC will continue to regulate NASDAQ's US markets only. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act will continue to be exclusively applicable to companies registered in the US.
8. Dividend Policy
The dividend policy of the Combined Group will be determined by the board of the Combined Group.
9. Financial Effects of the Offer
The Transaction is expected to create substantial shareholder value and be accretive to earnings per share in 2009.
10. Financing of the Offer
Assuming full acceptance of the Offer, approximately 60.6 million new NASDAQ shares will be issued pursuant to the Offer and the total cash consideration amount payable by NASDAQ to OMX shareholders will be approximately $1.7 billion (SEK11.4 billion).
The Offer will not be subject to any conditions concerning the availability of financing. Bank of America and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (the "Banks") have agreed to finance the cash consideration of the Offer pursuant to a commitment letter subject to all parties entering into definitive documentation. However, if definitive documentation is not entered into by the date on which the Offer is launched, the Banks will finance the cash consideration of the Offer by means of an interim loan agreement (the "Interim Loan Agreement") which provides for committed funds and which is attached as an exhibit to the commitment letter.
Drawdown pursuant to the Interim Loan Agreement is subject to the conditions of the Offer being satisfied or waived (where such waiver requires consents from the Banks in certain cases and under certain circumstances). The additional conditions to drawdown under the Interim Loan Agreement, which NASDAQ and its owners in practice control, are essentially that:
 
 
 
 
11. Key Terms and Conditions of the Offer
11.1 The Offer
The Offer to the OMX shareholders consists of a mixture of cash and new NASDAQ shares as consideration which values each OMX share at SEK208.1 based on the assumptions set out in section 11.2 below. For every 100 OMX shares tendered, each OMX shareholder will receive SEK9,430 in cash and 50.2 new NASDAQ shares, equivalent to 0.502 NASDAQ shares and SEK94.3 in cash per OMX share.
NASDAQ is offering each OMX shareholder:
4
 
 
As an alternative, OMX shareholders with 200 or fewer OMX shares are entitled to elect to receive a guaranteed Cash Consideration of SEK208.1 per OMX share.
NASDAQ reserves the right to introduce a mix and match facility which will enable OMX shareholders to elect to tender a higher proportion of their OMX shares in return for the Cash Consideration or to tender a higher proportion of their OMX shares in exchange for the Share Consideration, subject to matching elections by other OMX shareholders. The total number of new NASDAQ shares to be issued under the Offer would not be varied as a result of elections made under such mix and match facility. If NASDAQ introduces a mix and match facility, the details of such facility will be presented in the offer document.
No commission will be charged in respect of settlement of the Offer.
NASDAQ does not own any shares or other financial instruments in OMX.
11.2 Offer Value and Premium
Based on a closing price for NASDAQ shares of $33.19 on NASDAQ on 23 May, 2007 and a SEK/$ exchange rate of 6.83, the Offer value and Offer premium are the following:
 
 
 
 
 
Assuming full acceptance of the Offer, a maximum amount of approximately SEK11.4 billion ($1.7 billion) in cash is payable and a maximum number of approximately 60.6 million new NASDAQ shares will be issued under the Offer.
11.3 Fractional Entitlements
Fractions of the new NASDAQ shares will not be issued to accepting OMX shareholders. Such fractions will be sold in the market and the net proceeds will be distributed proportionally between the OMX shareholders concerned.
11.4 Completion Conditions of the Offer
Completion of the Offer is conditional upon:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
NASDAQ reserves the right to withdraw the Offer in the event that it is clear that any of the above conditions is not fulfilled or cannot be fulfilled. However, the Offer may only be withdrawn with reference to the non-fulfillment of the conditions 3-9 above if the non-fulfillment is of material importance for NASDAQ's acquisition of the Shares in OMX.
NASDAQ reserves the right to waive, in whole or in part, one, several or all of the conditions set out above, including with respect to condition 1 above, to complete the Offer at a lower level of acceptance; provided, however, that any waiver of conditions 1, 3 or 6 shall require the prior written consent of OMX (such consent not to be unreasonably withheld or delayed), except that no waiver of condition 1 shall require such prior written consent of OMX if, when the condition is waived, the Offer is accepted to such an extent that NASDAQ becomes the owner of shares representing at least 67 percent of the outstanding shares of OMX on a fully diluted basis.
11.5 Transaction Agreement between NASDAQ and OMX
NASDAQ and OMX have entered into a Transaction Agreement in connection with the Offer. The Transaction Agreement contains, inter alia, provisions on cooperation in regard of the offer document, the registration statement and filings with the relevant authorities, provisions on corporate governance and organizational issues post closing of the Transaction and provisions on treatment of OMX employees' option and share match plans. The
 
Transaction Agreement also contains customary provisions on board recommendations, so called non-solicitation and related provisions. The full Transaction Agreement will be available in the offer document.
11.6 Irrevocable Undertakings from OMX Shareholders
Investor AB, Nordea Bank AB and Magnus Bcker, together representing approximately 16.6 percent of OMX's current issued ordinary share capital, have entered into irrevocable undertakings to accept the Offer and, if a mix and match election facility is included in the Offer, depending on the structure and the terms of the facility, they will elect to receive all shares, subject to proration. The irrevocable undertakings will or could lapse in certain circumstances including:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
11.7 Approval from NASDAQ Shareholders
Hellman & Friedman, Silver Lake Partners, and Robert Greifeld have each agreed to vote their shares in favor of certain matters related to the Offer at the related NASDAQ shareholders' meeting, subject to the terms of NASDAQ's certificate of incorporation.
11.8 Board Recommendations
The board of directors of OMX unanimously recommends to OMX shareholders to accept the Offer. The board of directors of OMX has received fairness opinions from Morgan Stanley & Co. Limited ("Morgan Stanley") and Credit Suisse, concluding that, in their opinion and subject to the qualifications and assumptions set out therein, the Offer consideration is fair from a financial point of view to the shareholders of OMX. The full opinion of the board and the fairness opinions will be included in the offer document.
The board of directors of NASDAQ consider the terms of the Offer to be in the best interests of NASDAQ and the NASDAQ shareholders as a whole, and unanimously recommends that the NASDAQ shareholders vote in favor of the resolutions to be proposed at the shareholders' meeting of NASDAQ to be held in connection with the Offer.
 
11.9 Due Diligence
After approval by the board of directors of OMX, NASDAQ has conducted a limited due diligence review of certain business, financial and legal information relating to OMX.
OMX has conducted a limited due diligence review of certain business, financial and legal information relating to NASDAQ.
11.10 Governing Law
The Offer shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of Sweden. The Takeover Rules issued by the Stockholm Stock Exchange and the Swedish Securities Council's rulings regarding interpretation and application of the Takeover Rules (including its rulings with respect to the Rules on Public Offers for the Acquisition of Shares issued by the Swedish Industry and Commerce Stock Exchange Committee) apply in relation to the Offer. Furthermore, in accordance with the Swedish Takeover Act, NASDAQ has contractually agreed with the Stockholm Stock Exchange to comply with the foregoing and to submit to any sanctions imposed by the Stockholm Stock Exchange upon breach of the Takeover Rules. The courts of Sweden shall have exclusive jurisdiction over any dispute arising out of or in connection with the Offer and the City Court of Stockholm shall be the court of first instance.
12. Listing of and Trading in the NASDAQ OMX share
The NASDAQ OMX share will be listed on NASDAQ and on the OMX Nordic Exchange.
Further details on listing, admission to trading and dealings in the NASDAQ share will be included in the offer document.
13. Compulsory Acquisition and Delisting
In the event that NASDAQ (whether in connection with the Offer or otherwise) obtains more than 90 percent of OMX's issued share capital on a fully diluted basis, NASDAQ intends to commence a compulsory acquisition procedure under the Swedish Companies Act to acquire all remaining OMX shares. In connection therewith, NASDAQ intends to promote a de-listing of the OMX share from the Stockholm Stock Exchange and the marketplaces where there is a secondary listing of the OMX share.
14. Indicative Timetable
An offer document regarding the Offer and a retail shareholder information brochure will be published. These documents are expected to be published during the third quarter of 2007.
6
The acceptance period will commence promptly following the publishing of the offer document, and will last for no less than 20 business days. NASDAQ reserves the right to extend the acceptance period and to defer the date for settlement subject to applicable law and the Transaction Agreement.
The completion of the Offer is conditional upon the satisfaction of certain conditions as set out in section 11.4 above, including expiration of the Hart-Scott-Rodino waiting period and
 
receipt of anti-trust and full regulatory approvals and NASDAQ shareholder approval. NASDAQ and OMX expects the Offer is to be completed by year-end 2007. Further details regarding the publication of these documents and the timetable for the Offer period will follow in a separate press release in due course.
15. Advisors
JPMorgan is acting as exclusive financial advisor to NASDAQ in relation to the transaction and will not be responsible for providing the protections afforded to their client to any other person. Advokatfirman Cederquist and Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP are serving as legal advisors to NASDAQ in relation to the Transaction. Morgan Stanley, Lenner & Partners and Credit Suisse are acting as financial advisors to OMX in relation to the transaction and will not be responsible for providing the protections afforded to their client to any other person. Advokatfirman Vinge and Cleary Gottlieb Steen & Hamilton LLP are serving as legal advisors to OMX in relation to the Transaction.
16. Information on OMX
OMX is a leading expert in the exchange industry. Through the Nordic Exchange, OMX offers access to approximately 80 percent of the Nordic and Baltic securities market. The Nordic Exchange is a term used for marketing purposes and is not a legal entity. It describes the common offering from the Helsinki Stock Exchange, Copenhagen Stock Exchange, Stockholm Stock Exchange, Iceland Stock Exchange, Tallinn Stock Exchange, Riga Stock Exchange and Vilnius Stock Exchange. OMX integrated technology solutions cross the transaction chain enabling efficient securities transactions for over 60 exchange organizations in more than 50 countries. OMX is a Nordic Large Cap company in the Financials sector on the OMX Nordic Exchange.
OMX key statistics as of Q1, 2007:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
17. Information on NASDAQ
NASDAQ is the largest US electronic stock market. With approximately 3,200 companies, it lists more companies and, on average, trades more shares per day than any other US market. It is home to companies that are leaders across all areas of business including technology, retail, communications, financial services, transportation, media and biotechnology. NASDAQ is the primary market for trading NASDAQ-listed stocks.
 
NASDAQ key statistics as of Q1, 2007:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Information set forth in this filing contains forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. OMX and NASDAQ caution readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the Offer, the proposed business combination transaction involving NASDAQ and OMX, including estimated revenue and cost synergies, the Combined Group's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts. Additional risks and factors are identified in NASDAQ's filings with the U.S. Securities Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), including its Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006 which is available on NASDAQ's website at
http://www.NASDAQ.com
and the SEC's website at SEC's website at
www.sec.gov.
and in OMX's filings with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority (Sw. Finansinspektionen) (the "SFSA") including its annual report for 2006, which is available on OMX's website at
http://www.omxgroup.com
. The parties undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Notice to OMX shareholders
While the Offer is being made to all holders of OMX shares, this document does not constitute an offer to purchase, sell or exchange or the solicitation of an offer to purchase, sell or exchange any securities of OMX or an offer to purchase, sell or exchange or the solicitation of an offer to purchase, sell or exchange any securities of NASDAQ in any jurisdiction in which the making of the Offer or the acceptance of any tender of shares therein would not be made in compliance with the laws of such jurisdiction. In particular, the Offer is not being made, directly or indirectly, in or into Australia, Canada, Japan or South Africa. While NASDAQ reserves the right to make the Offer in or into the United Kingdom or any other jurisdiction pursuant to applicable exceptions or following appropriate filings and prospectus or equivalent document publication by NASDAQ in such jurisdictions, pending such filings or publications and in the absence of any such exception the Offer is not made in any such jurisdiction.
Additional Information About this Transaction
In connection with the proposed business combination transaction, OMX and NASDAQ expect that NASDAQ will file with the SEC a Registration Statement on Form S-4 that will include a proxy statement of NASDAQ that also constitutes a prospectus of NASDAQ. You may obtain a free copy of those documents (if and when available) and other related documents filed by NASDAQ with the SEC at the SEC's website at
Investors and security holders are urged to read the proxy statement/prospectus and any amendments and other applicable documents regarding the proposed business combination transaction if and when they become available because they will contain important information.
www.sec.gov
. The proxy statement/prospectus (if and when it becomes available) and the other documents may also be obtained for free by accessing NASDAQ's website at 
http://www.nasdaq.com
and OMX's website at
http://www.omxgroup.com
.
NASDAQ and its directors and executive officers and other members of management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from NASDAQ stockholders in respect of the transactions described in this communication. You can find information about NASDAQ's executive officers and directors in NASDAQ's definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on April 20, 2007. You can obtain free copies of these documents and of the proxy statement prospectus (when it becomes available) from NASDAQ by accessing NASDAQ's website. Additional information regarding the interests of such potential participants will be included in the proxy statement/prospectus and the other relevant documents filed with the SEC when they become available.
 


