FILE:NDAQ/NDAQ-8K-20070719092431.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On July 19, 2007, The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. ("Nasdaq") issued a press release providing financial results for the second quarter of 2007. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information set forth under "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" is intended to be furnished pursuant to Item 2.02. Such information, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any of Nasdaq's filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
New York, N.Y.The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. ("NASDAQ
"; Nasdaq: NDAQ), today reported second quarter 2007 net income of $56.1 million, or $0.39 per diluted share, an increase of $39.5 million from $16.6 million, or $0.13 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2006, and an increase of $37.8 million from $18.3 million, or $0.14 per diluted share, in the first quarter 2007.
Operating income was $99.0 million for the second quarter of 2007, an increase of $62.7 million when compared to $36.3 million for the second quarter of 2006, and up $17.6 million, or 21.6% from $81.4 million reported in the first quarter of 2007.
Revenues, less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees ("net exchange revenues") were $198.7 million in the second quarter of 2007, an increase of 16.1% from $171.1 million in the year-ago period, and up 3.4% from $192.1 million reported in the first quarter of 2007.
"In the second quarter of 2007 NASDAQ's core business operated on all cylinders, reaching record operating earnings on the back of new product innovation and customer service initiatives. In addition, we are pleased with the pace of our integration planning efforts with our prospective merger partner OMX and are confident that together we will create the strongest global marketplace and technology platform," commented Bob Greifeld, President and Chief Executive Officer of NASDAQ. "Our ability to capture market share has grown NASDAQ into the largest single pool of liquidity for trading cash equities, creating a robust platform for growth. To that end, we believe our business is poised to deliver strong results over the second half of the year through continued product innovation and diversification."
Recent Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
2007 Outlook
NASDAQ expects the following results for the full-year 2007:
 
 
 
"Operating margins for the quarter were 49.8%, demonstrating our ability to deliver synergies from acquisitions while simultaneously introducing innovative customer products and services," commented NASDAQ's Chief Financial Officer, David Warren. "Our focus on operating efficiency is yielding positive results. This focus will continue to drive value for our shareholders as we introduce new services such as our Options and Portal markets, and strive to complete our planned combination with OMX."
Financial Review
Net exchange revenues increased 16.1% in the second quarter to $198.7 million, up from $171.1 million in the prior year quarter, and up 3.4% from $192.1 million reported in the first quarter of 2007.
Market Services
Market Services net exchange revenues increased to $127.9 million, or 18.8%, from prior year quarter, and increased 1.8% from the prior quarter.
 
 
NM  Not meaningful. Denotes variances equal to or greater than 100%
 
 
Issuer Services
During the quarter Issuer Services revenues increased 11.5% to $70.7 million from the prior year quarter and increased 6.5% from prior quarter.
 
 
 
Total Operating Expenses
Total operating expenses decreased 26.0% to $99.7 million from $134.8 million in the prior year quarter and decreased 9.9% from $110.7 million in the prior quarter. Second quarter 2007 expenses decreased from last year due to the completion of the INET acquisition integration, which resulted in NASDAQ migrating all trading to a single trading platform. Also contributing to the decline from prior year were charges incurred in the second quarter 2006 associated with the extinguishment of a credit facility, costs associated with NASDAQ's continuing efforts to reduce operating expenses and improve the efficiency of its operations, offset somewhat by a foreign currency gain. Expenses decreased from first quarter 2007 primarily due to charges incurred in the prior quarter related to a NASDAQ clearing contract, offset somewhat by the recording of a gain associated with freezing the employee pension plan and SERP.
Earnings Per Share
Second quarter earnings per diluted share were $0.39 versus $0.13 per diluted share in the prior year quarter, and $0.14 in the first quarter of 2007. NASDAQ's weighted average shares outstanding used to calculate diluted earnings per share were 152.0 million in the quarter versus 145.2 million in the year-ago quarter and 151.8 million in the first quarter 2007.
NASDAQ is the largest electronic equity securities market in the United States. With approximately 3,200 companies, it lists more companies and, on average, trades more shares per day than any other U.S. market. It is home to category-defining companies that are leaders across all areas of business including technology, retail, communications, financial services, transportation, media and biotechnology industries. For more information about NASDAQ, visit the NASDAQ Web site at or the NASDAQ Newsroom
www.nasdaq.com
SM
at . NDAQF
www.nasdaqnews.com
Non-GAAP Information
In addition to disclosing results determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), NASDAQ also discloses certain non-GAAP results of operations, including total expenses, operating income, net income and diluted earnings per share, that exclude certain charges that are described in the reconciliation table of non-GAAP to GAAP information provided at the end of this release. Management believes that this non-GAAP information provides investors with additional information to assess NASDAQ's operating performance by excluding these costs and assists investors in comparing our operating performance to prior periods. Management uses this non-GAAP information, along with GAAP information, in evaluating its historical operating performance.
The non-GAAP information is not prepared in accordance with GAAP and may not be comparable to non-GAAP information used by other companies. The non-GAAP information should not be viewed as a substitute for, or superior to, other data prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Information set forth in this communication contains forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. NASDAQ and OMX caution readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, projections about our future financial results and statements about the implementation dates and benefits of certain strategic initiatives, including the proposed business combination transaction involving NASDAQ and OMX AB, including estimated revenue and cost synergies, the Combined Group's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties or other factors beyond NASDAQ's control. These factors include, but are not limited to, NASDAQ's ability to implement its strategic initiatives, economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, government and industry regulation, interest rate risk, U.S. and global competition, and other factors detailed in NASDAQ's filings with the U.S. Securities Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), including its Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006 which is available on NASDAQ's website at http://www.nasdaq.com and the SEC's website at SEC's website at www.sec.gov. and in OMX's filings with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority (Sw. Finansinspektionen) (the "SFSA") including its annual report for 2006, which is available on OMX's website at http://www.omxgroup.com. The parties undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Notice to OMX shareholders
While the Offer is being made to all holders of OMX shares, this document does not constitute an offer to purchase, sell or exchange or the solicitation of an offer to purchase, sell or exchange any securities of OMX or an offer to purchase, sell or exchange or the solicitation of an offer to purchase, sell or exchange any securities of NASDAQ in any jurisdiction in which the making of the Offer or the acceptance of any tender of shares therein would not be made in compliance with the laws of such jurisdiction. In particular, the Offer is not being made, directly or indirectly, in or into Australia, Canada, Japan or South Africa. While NASDAQ reserves the right to make the Offer in or into the United Kingdom or any other jurisdiction pursuant to applicable exceptions or following appropriate filings and prospectus or equivalent document publication by NASDAQ in such jurisdictions, pending such filings or publications and in the absence of any such exception the Offer is not made in any such jurisdiction.
Additional Information About the Nasdaq/OMX Transaction
In connection with the proposed business combination transaction, OMX and NASDAQ expect that NASDAQ will file with the SEC a Registration Statement on Form S-4 that will include a proxy statement of NASDAQ that also constitutes a prospectus of NASDAQ. Investors and security holders are urged to read the proxy statement/prospectus and any amendments and other applicable documents regarding the proposed business combination transaction if and when they become available because they will contain important information. You may obtain a free copy of those documents (if and when available) and other related documents filed by NASDAQ with the SEC at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. The proxy statement/prospectus (if and when it becomes available) and the other documents may also be obtained for free by accessing NASDAQ's website at http://www.nasdaq.com and OMX's website at http://www.omxgroup.com.
 
 
 
 
 


