FILE:NDAQ/NDAQ-8K-20070809142838.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 9, 2007, The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. ("NASDAQ") issued a press release containing a statement regarding OMX AB. This press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Information set forth in this communication contains forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. OMX and NASDAQ caution readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about the benefits of the Offer, the proposed business combination transaction involving NASDAQ and OMX, including estimated revenue and cost synergies, the Combined Group's plans, objectives, expectations and intentions and other statements that are not historical facts. Additional risks and factors are identified in NASDAQ's filings with the U.S. Securities Exchange Commission (the "SEC"), including its Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006 which is available on NASDAQ's website at http://www.nasdaq.com and the SEC's website at SEC's website at www.sec.gov. and in OMX's filings with the Swedish Financial Supervisory Authority (Sw. Finansinspektionen) (the "SFSA") including its annual report for 2006, which is available on OMX's website at http://www.omxgroup.com. The parties undertake no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
Notice to OMX shareholders
While the Offer is being made to all holders of OMX shares, this document does not constitute an offer to purchase, sell or exchange or the solicitation of an offer to purchase, sell or exchange any securities of OMX or an offer to purchase, sell or exchange or the solicitation of an offer to purchase, sell or exchange any securities of Nasdaq in any jurisdiction in which the making of the Offer or the acceptance of any tender of shares therein would not be made in compliance with the laws of such jurisdiction. In particular, the Offer is not being made, directly or indirectly, in or into Australia, Canada, Japan or South Africa. While NASDAQ reserves the right to make the Offer in or into the United Kingdom or any other jurisdiction pursuant to applicable exceptions or following appropriate filings and prospectus or equivalent document publication by NASDAQ in such jurisdictions, pending such filings or publications and in the absence of any such exception the Offer is not made in any such jurisdiction.
Additional Information About this Transaction
On August 7, 2007, NASDAQ filed with the SEC a Registration Statement on Form S-4 that includes a preliminary proxy statement of NASDAQ that also constitutes a prospectus of NASDAQ.
Investors and security holders are urged to read the preliminary proxy statement/prospectus and the definitive proxy statement/prospectus when it becomes available, as well as other applicable documents regarding the proposed business combination transaction, because those documents contain, or will contain, important information. You may obtain a free copy of those documents and other related documents filed by NASDAQ with the SEC at the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. The proxy statement/prospectus and the other documents may also be obtained for free by accessing NASDAQ's website at http://www.nasdaq.com and OMX's website at http://www.omxgroup.com.
NASDAQ and its directors and executive officers and other members of management and employees may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies from NASDAQ stockholders in respect of the transactions described in this communication. You can find information about NASDAQ's executive officers and directors in NASDAQ's definitive proxy statement filed with the SEC on April 20, 2007. You can obtain free copies of these documents and of the proxy statement prospectus from NASDAQ by accessing NASDAQ's website at http://www.nasdaq.com. Additional information regarding the interests of such potential participants will be included in the proxy statement/prospectus and the other relevant documents filed with the SEC when they become available.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
Nasdaq notes the conditional offer by Borse Dubai for at least 25% of OMX AB.
Nasdaq remains fully committed to its recommended offer for 100% of OMX.
The combination of Nasdaq and OMX will provide significant benefits for customers, shareholders and stakeholders in both companies, strengthen the Nordic region as a financial center and provide enhanced opportunities for economic growth throughout the Nordic region.
The Nasdaq offer includes a substantial portion of Nasdaq shares, providing shareholders the opportunity to benefit from the long term value creation opportunity of the combined group, which brings together two companies with a common culture and vision of innovation, competitiveness and pioneering technology expertise.
Nasdaq urges OMX shareholders to take no action with respect to the conditional offer by Dubai for a minority stake in OMX.
Media Contacts:
NASDAQ
Bethany Sherman
212-401-8714
Maitland
Emma Burdett
+44 20 7379 5151
+44 7900 000 777


