FILE:NDAQ/NDAQ-8K-20070419071425.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
On April 19, 2007, The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. ("Nasdaq") issued a press release providing financial results for the first quarter of 2007. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information set forth under "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" is intended to be furnished pursuant to Item 2.02. Such information, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any of Nasdaq's filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
(c) Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
New York, N.Y.The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. ("NASDAQ
"; Nasdaq: NDAQ), today reported first quarter 2007 net income of $18.3 million, or $0.14 per diluted share, an increase of $0.3 million from $18.0 million, or $0.16 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2006.
First quarter 2007 results include the following pre-tax items:
Excluding the above items and an additional $2.1 million in other charges, net income calculated on a non-GAAP basis was $41.8 million versus $26.2 million for the first quarter 2006 and $33.0 million for the fourth quarter 2006. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per common share were $0.29 for the quarter versus $0.22 for the first quarter 2006 and $0.23 for the fourth quarter 2006.
Operating income was $81.4 million for the first quarter of 2007, an increase of $39.6 million, or 94.7%, when compared to $41.8 million for the first quarter of 2006.
Gross margin, representing total revenues less cost of revenues, was $192.1 million in the first quarter of 2007, an increase of 18.6% from $162.0 million in the year-ago period, and up 4.9% from $183.1 million reported in the fourth quarter of 2006.
NASDAQ's Chief Executive Officer, Robert Greifeld commented, "Our first quarter results demonstrate our ability to improve profitability by focusing on the execution of our business plan. Gross margin increased for the 10
th
consecutive quarter and operating income reached the highest level ever recorded at NASDAQ. Share volume matched in our systems reached record highs and NASDAQ had its strongest performance in IPO listings since the height of the market in 2000. We are extremely confident in our ability to continue to grow our business and remain excited about the future."
Recent Highlights
2007 Outlook
NASDAQ expects the following results for the full-year 2007:
"We're extremely proud of our first quarter operating results," commented NASDAQ's Chief Financial Officer, David Warren. "By migrating trading to a single platform we've effectively completed the INET integration and have demonstrated our disciplined approach to integrating acquisitions. I'm pleased to say that all revenue and cost objectives identified at the time of the INET acquisition have been achieved. This success is clearly illustrated in the strong growth in operating income."
Financial Review
Gross margin increased 18.6% in the first quarter to $192.1 million, up from $162.0 million in the year-ago quarter, and up 4.9% from $183.1 million reported in the fourth quarter of 2006.
Total Revenues and Gross Margin
Market Services
Market Services gross margin increased to $125.6 million, or 22.1%, from prior year, and increased 8.3% from prior quarter.
 
 
NM  Not meaningful. Denotes variances equal to or greater than 100%
 
Issuer Services
During the quarter Issuer Services revenues increased 12.7% to $66.4 million from the prior year quarter and decreased 0.9% from prior quarter.
 
 
 
Increases from prior quarter are primarily driven by the revised annual fees, offset somewhat by cyclically lower Corporate Client services.
Total Operating Expenses
Total operating expenses decreased 7.9% to $110.7 million from $120.2 million in the year-ago quarter and decreased 3.7% from $115.0 million in the prior quarter. First quarter 2007 expenses decreased from last year primarily due to the completion of the integration of the INET acquisition, which resulted in NASDAQ migrating all trading to a single trading platform. Expenses decreased from fourth quarter 2006 primarily due to integration savings and the recording of a gain associated with freezing the employee pension plan and SERP, offset somewhat by the charge related to a NASDAQ clearing contract.
Loss on Foreign Currency Option Contracts
Included in first quarter 2007 results is a $7.8 million loss on foreign currency option contracts that NASDAQ entered into to hedge the foreign exchange exposure on the bid for the London Stock Exchange. A $48.4 million gain was recorded in the fourth quarter 2006 for foreign currency option contracts. As a result NASDAQ's cumulative gain on foreign currency contracts is approximately $40.6 million.
Strategic Initiative Costs
Included in first quarter 2007 results is a $24.9 million charge associated with NASDAQ's offer for the London Stock Exchange. These charges include $18.4 million of capitalized costs as of December 31, 2006 and subsequent expenses of approximately $6.5 million.
Earnings Per Share
First quarter earnings per diluted share were $0.14 versus $0.16 per diluted share in the year-ago quarter, and $0.43 in the fourth quarter of 2006. NASDAQ's weighted average shares outstanding used to calculate diluted earnings per share was 151.8 million in the quarter versus 128.0 million in the year-ago quarter and 152.1 million in the fourth quarter 2006. The outstanding share count increased from the year-ago quarter primarily due to the issuance of approximately 18.5 million shares in equity offerings in the second quarter of 2006.
NASDAQ
is the largest electronic equity securities market in the United States. With approximately 3,200 companies, it lists more companies and, on average, trades more shares per day than any other U.S. market. It is home to category-defining companies that are leaders across all areas of business including technology, retail, communications, financial services, transportation, media and biotechnology industries. For more information about NASDAQ, visit the NASDAQ Web site at or the NASDAQ Newsroom
www.nasdaq.com
SM
at . NDAQF
www.nasdaqnews.com
Non-GAAP Information
In addition to disclosing results determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), NASDAQ also discloses certain non-GAAP results of operations, including total operating expenses, operating income, net income and diluted earnings per share, that exclude certain charges that are described further in this press release and in the reconciliation table of non-GAAP to GAAP information provided at the end of this release.Management believes that this non-GAAP information provides investors with additional information to assess NASDAQ's operating performance by excluding these costs and assists investors in comparing our operating performance to prior periods.
 
Management uses this non-GAAP information, along with GAAP information, in evaluating its historical operating performance.
The non-GAAP information is not prepared in accordance with GAAP and may not be comparable to non-GAAP information used by other companies. The non-GAAP information should not be viewed as a substitute for, or superior to, other data prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
The matters described herein may contain forward-looking statements that are made pursuant to the Safe Harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These forward-looking statements include projections about our future financial results, as well as the implementation dates and benefits of certain strategic initiatives. The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. cautions that these statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include projections which have not been reviewed by independent auditors of NASDAQ. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties or other factors beyond NASDAQ's control. These factors include, but are not limited to, NASDAQ's ability to implement its strategic initiatives, economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, government and industry regulation, interest rate risk, U.S. and global competition, and other factors detailed in NASDAQ's annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, and periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. In addition, these statements are based on a number of assumptions that are subject to change. Accordingly, actual results may be materially higher or lower than those projected. The inclusion of such projections herein should not be regarded as a representation by NASDAQ that the projections will prove to be correct. We undertake no obligation to release any revisions to any forward-looking statements.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


