FILE:NDAQ/NDAQ-8K-20080415084838.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On April 15, 2008, The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, a wholly owned subsidiary of The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc., is sending a notice to head traders and others announcing pricing changes, which must be filed with the SEC. A copy of the notice is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
The matters described herein contain forward-looking statements that are made under the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These statements include, but are not limited to, statements about pricing changes. We caution that these statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward-looking statements. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties or other factors beyond our control. These factors include, but are not limited to, factors detailed in our annual report on Form 10-K and periodic reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We undertake no obligation to release any revisions to any forward-looking statements.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: April 15, 2008

Exhibit 99.1
 
Head Traders; Technical Contacts; Compliance Officers
Please Route To:
What you need to know:
 
at 800.846.0477
Who you should contact:
NASDAQ Market Sales
 
 
What are the pricing changes?
Effective , pending filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), NASDAQ plans to introduce pricing changes for all U.S. equities. The new unified pricing for Tape A, Tape B and Tape C securities will be as follows:
May 1, 2008
 
The rebate for non-display orders will be $0.0015 for adding greater than 35 million shares and $0.0010 for adding 35 millions shares or less.
NASDAQ plans to discontinue the liquidity provider credit program for select Tape B securities. The rebates above will apply for all securities traded on Tape B. The Data Revenue Share Plan will be at 50% for all Tape B securities.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Where can I get additional information?
 
 
 
 
The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. is the world's largest exchange company. It delivers trading, exchange technology and public company services across six continents, and with over 3,900 companies, it is number one in worldwide listings among major markets. NASDAQ OMX offers multiple capital raising solutions to companies around the globe, including its U.S. listings market; the OMX Nordic Exchange, including First North; and the 144A PORTAL Market. The company offers trading across multiple asset classes including equities, derivatives, debt, commodities, structured products and ETFs. NASDAQ OMX technology supports the operations of over 60 exchanges, clearing organizations and central securities depositories in more than 50 countries. OMX Nordic Exchange is not a legal entity but describes the common offering from NASDAQ OMX exchanges in Helsinki, Copenhagen, Stockholm, Iceland, Tallinn, Riga, and Vilnius. For more information about NASDAQ OMX, visit .
www.nasdaqomx.com
 Copyright 2008 The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. All Rights Reserved.


