FILE:NDAQ/NDAQ-8K-20080131072523.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 31, 2008, The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. ("Nasdaq") issued a press release providing financial results for the fourth quarter of 2007. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
The information set forth under "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" is intended to be furnished pursuant to Item 2.02. Such information, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any of Nasdaq's filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
New York, N.Y.The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. ("NASDAQ"; NASDAQ: NDAQ), today reported fourth quarter 2007 net income of $79.0 million, or $0.52 per diluted share, an increase of $16.0 million from $63.0 million, or $0.43 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2006. Net income for the fourth quarter 2007 declined when compared to $365.0 million, or $2.41 per diluted share, reported in the third quarter 2007. Net income for the full year 2007 increased to $518.4 million, or $3.46 per diluted share, when compared to net income applicable to common stockholders of $127.2 million, or $0.95 per diluted share, for the full year 2006. Included in third quarter and full year 2007 results are pre-tax gains of $431.4 million associated with NASDAQ's sale of its share capital of the London Stock Exchange Group plc, which had the impact of increasing diluted earnings per share by $1.95 for both periods.
Fourth quarter 2007 results include pre-tax gains of $18.2 million related to foreign currency option contracts, as well as pre-tax charges of $1.1 million related to the early extinguishment of debt and $0.6 million in workforce reduction expenses. When excluding these items net income on a non-GAAP basis was $69.1 million, or $0.46 per diluted share. This represents an increase when compared to non-GAAP net income of $32.5 million, or $0.23 per diluted share for the fourth quarter of 2006, and $62.1 million, or $0.42 per diluted share for the third quarter of 2007.
Revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees ("net exchange revenues") were $211.6 million in the fourth quarter of 2007, an increase of 15.6% from $183.1 million in the year-ago period, and up $1.6 million from $210.0 million reported in the third quarter of 2007.
"Our fourth quarter results cap off a truly defining year for NASDAQ," commented Bob Greifeld, NASDAQ's President and Chief Executive Officer. "During 2007 we were able to dramatically improve our financial and operational performance, leaving us stronger and better positioned for future success. We solidified our global footprint with the agreement to combine with OMX and invest strategically into the emerging markets of the Middle East. Additionally, we took steps to diversify our business into derivatives, clearing and other new products through the planned acquisitions of both the Philadelphia and Boston Stock Exchanges and through OMX's announced acquisition of NordPool. As we enter 2008, we are even more excited about the opportunities in front of us as we execute our plans for geographic expansion and product diversification."
Recent Highlights
"NASDAQ's financial performance continued to be strong during the quarter," commented NASDAQ's Chief Financial Officer, David Warren. "Net exchange revenues, which have grown for thirteen consecutive quarters, were up 15.6% over last year's fourth quarter, while operating income increased nearly 50%. Our ability to increase our operating leverage afforded us the flexibility to invest in key growth initiatives, while at the same time delivering exceptional results. We plan to utilize this same operating philosophy as we complete our previously announced transactions with OMX, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, and the Boston Stock Exchange, to ensure that we continue to achieve all of our strategic and financial goals."
2008 Guidance
NASDAQ has decided to forgo providing guidance as a standalone entity at this time given the transactions that are expected to close during the first half of 2008 and the contributions that each will have on the financial results of the consolidated organization.
Financial Review
Net exchange revenues increased 15.6% in the fourth quarter to $211.6 million, up from $183.1 million in the prior year quarter, and up $1.6 million from $210.0 million reported in the third quarter of 2007.
Market Services
Market Services net exchange revenues increased to $137.9 million, up 18.9% from the prior year quarter, and up 0.9% from the prior quarter.
 
 
 
Issuer Services
During the fourth quarter Issuer Services revenues increased 9.9% to $73.6 million from the prior year quarter and increased 0.5% from the prior quarter.
 
 
Total Operating Expenses
Total operating expenses declined 4.3% to $110.0 million from $115.0 million in the prior year quarter and declined 12.8% from $126.1 million in the prior quarter. Third quarter 2007 expenses include a charge of $19.5 million for a tax sharing payment for the benefit of a strategic investor and a charge of $5.8 million related to the early extinguishment of debt.
Net interest income
Net interest income was $12.4 million for the fourth quarter of 2007, compared with net interest expense of $18.3 million for the fourth quarter of 2006, representing an increase of $30.7 million. This increase was primarily due to additional interest income on higher cash balances due to the cash proceeds received from the sale of our share capital of the London Stock Exchange plc and lower interest expense on debt due to a lower outstanding balance. In September 2007, NASDAQ used $1.1 billion of the $1.8 billion of proceeds from the sale of our share capital of the London Stock Exchange Group plc to repay in full and terminate outstanding debt obligations.
Earnings Per Share
Fourth quarter earnings per diluted share were $0.52 versus $0.43 per diluted share in the prior year quarter, and $2.41 in the third quarter of 2007. Included in third quarter 2007 results are pre-tax gains associated with NASDAQ's sale of its share capital of the London Stock Exchange Group plc, noted above. NASDAQ's weighted average shares outstanding used to calculate diluted earnings per share were 154.0 million in the fourth quarter of 2007 versus 152.1 million in the year-ago quarter and 152.3 million in the third quarter of 2007.
NASDAQ is the largest U.S. equities exchange. With over 3,100 companies, it lists more companies and, on average, trades more shares per day than any other U.S. market. It is home to companies that are leaders across all areas of business including technology, retail, communications, financial services, transportation, media and biotechnology. NASDAQ is the primary market for trading NASDAQ-listed stocks as well as a leading liquidity pool for trading NYSE-listed stocks. For more information about NASDAQ, visit the NASDAQ Web site at or the NASDAQ Newsroom at
www.nasdaq.com
www.nasdaq.com/newsroom/
Non-GAAP Information
In addition to disclosing results determined in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ("GAAP"), NASDAQ also discloses certain non-GAAP results of operations, including total expenses, operating income, net income and diluted earnings per share, that exclude certain charges and gains that are described in the reconciliation table of non-GAAP to GAAP information provided at the end of this release. Management believes that this non-GAAP information provides investors with additional information to assess NASDAQ's operating performance by excluding these costs and gains and assists investors in comparing our operating performance to prior periods. Management uses this non-GAAP information, along with GAAP information, in evaluating its historical operating performance.
The non-GAAP information is not prepared in accordance with GAAP and may not be comparable to non-GAAP information used by other companies. The non-GAAP information should not be viewed as a substitute for, or superior to, other data prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Information set forth in this communication contains forward-looking statements, which involve a number of risks and uncertainties. NASDAQ cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, projections about our future financial results and statements about the implementation dates and benefits of certain strategic initiatives, including the transactions contemplated by NASDAQ's agreements with Borse Dubai, OMX AB, the Boston Stock Exchange and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange, and other statements that are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties or other factors beyond NASDAQ's control. These factors include, but are not limited to, NASDAQ's ability to implement its strategic initiatives, economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, government and industry regulation, interest rate risk, U.S. and global competition, and other factors detailed in NASDAQ's filings with the U.S. Securities Exchange Commission, including its annual report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2006 which is available on NASDAQ's website at http://www.nasdaq.com and the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. NASDAQ undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 


