FILE:NDAQ/NDAQ-8K-20080225172608.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
(b) Resignation of Directors
On February 19, 2008, Daniel B. Coleman and Merit E. Janow resigned from the Board of Directors of The Nasdaq Stock Market, Inc. ("Nasdaq") and any committees thereof effective upon the consummation of the acquisition of OMX AB (publ) ("OMX") by Nasdaq.
(d) Appointment of Directors
(1) On February 19, 2008, Nasdaq appointed Michael R. Splinter, Urban Bckstrm, Birgitta Kantola, Hans Munk Nielsen, Lars Wedenborn, Essa Kazim and Soud Ba'alawi to its Board of Directors upon consummation of the acquisition of OMX by Nasdaq, with such appointments to be effective as of March 1, 2008.
(2) Ms. Kantola and Messrs. Bckstrm, Nielson and Wedenborn were appointed to the Board of Directors pursuant to the transaction agreement between Nasdaq and OMX, dated May 25, 2007, as supplemented on September 30, 2007, and as clarified on January 2, 2008. Under this agreement, the board of directors of OMX was entitled to propose four directors to Nasdaq's Board of Directors upon consummation of the acquisition of OMX by Nasdaq.
      Messrs. Kazim and Ba'alawi were appointed to the Board of Directors pursuant to the terms of the stockholders' agreement between Nasdaq and Borse Dubai Limited, which will be effective upon consummation of the acquisition of OMX by Nasdaq.
(3) Mr. Bckstrm was appointed to the Executive Committee and Corporate Governance Committee of Nasdaq's Board of Directors. Mr. Nielson was appointed to the Audit Committee of Nasdaq's Board of Directors. Mr. Wedenborn was appointed to the Finance Committee of Nasdaq's Board of Directors. Ms. Kantola and Mr. Splinter were appointed to the Management Compensation Committee of Nasdaq's Board of Directors.
(4) Relating to the appointment of Messrs. Kazim and Ba'alawi, the description of the agreements and transactions under Item 1.01 of Nasdaq's Form 8-K dated September 26, 2007 are incorporated by reference herein.
(5) The new directors will be compensated in accordance with our board compensation policy. The terms and conditions of this policy were disclosed under Item 1.01 of Nasdaq's Form 8-K dated March 14, 2006, and are incorporated by reference herein.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
Dated: February 25, 2008


