FILE:NDAQ/NDAQ-8K-20090507071516.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 7, 2009, The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. ("NASDAQ OMX") issued a press release providing financial results for the first quarter of 2009. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
On May 7, 2009, NASDAQ OMX posted slides to be used in its earnings presentation for the first quarter of 2009 on its website at .
http://ir.nasdaqomx.com/
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
The information set forth under "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and "Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure" is intended to be furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and Item 7.01, respectively. Such information, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any of NASDAQ OMX's filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
May 7, 2009
New York, N.Y.The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. ("NASDAQ OMX"; NASDAQ: NDAQ) today reported net income of $94 million, or $0.44 per diluted share, for the first quarter of 2009 compared with net income of $121 million, or $0.69 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2008, and with net income of $35 million, or $0.17 per diluted share, in the fourth quarter of 2008.
For comparison purposes, results for the first quarter of 2009 and the fourth quarter of 2008 are presented on a non-GAAP basis and exclude merger expenses and certain other non-recurring items. Results for the first quarter of 2008 are presented on a pro forma non-GAAP basis that reflect the financial results of NASDAQ, OMX, and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange as if they were a combined company for the periods presented and exclude merger expenses, net gains from foreign currency contracts and certain other non-recurring items. A complete reconciliation of GAAP results to non-GAAP and to pro forma non-GAAP results is provided as an attachment.
For the first quarter of 2009, net income on a non-GAAP basis was $102 million, or $0.48 per diluted share, an increase of 10% when compared to pro forma non-GAAP net income of $93 million, or $0.44 per diluted share, for the first quarter of 2008, and a decrease of 7% when compared to non-GAAP net income of $110 million, or $0.52 per diluted share, for the fourth quarter of 2008.
Items excluded from first quarter 2009 non-GAAP results are:
 
 
 
 
"We are particularly proud of the results we delivered during the quarter," commented Bob Greifeld, NASDAQ OMX's Chief Executive Officer. "Despite a challenging environment we were able to achieve year-over-year profitability growth through the strength of our diversified business model and continued focus on operational efficiency. Our objective is to drive growth through investments in new opportunities and through innovation and technology advances in our core businesses."
Recent Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
"The ability to grow operating margins in a difficult market speaks to our strength as proven integrators," said David Warren, NASDAQ OMX's Chief Financial Officer. "Due to our strong performance we were able to generate the cash flow necessary to reduce our debt obligations while investing in new initiatives to drive future growth. Looking forward, we are reducing our full year 2009 total operating expense guidance to be in the range of $830.0 million to $850.0 million, including approximately $30.0 million in merger-related costs."
Financial Review
Revenues
Revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees ("net exchange revenues") were $369 million for the first quarter of 2009, a decrease of $50 million, or 12%, from first quarter 2008 results, and a decrease of $34 million, or 8%, from fourth quarter 2008 results.
Market Services
Market Services net exchange revenues decreased to $258 million, down 13% from the prior year quarter, and down 8% from the fourth quarter of 2008.
Transaction Services
Net exchange revenues from Transaction Services were $167 million for the first quarter of 2009, a decrease of $27 million, or 14%, when compared to the first quarter of 2008, and a decrease of $13 million, or 7%, from the fourth quarter of 2008.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Market Data
Market Data revenues were $81 million for the first quarter of 2009, down $3 million, or 4%, when compared to the first quarter of 2008 and down $4 million, or 5% from the fourth quarter of 2008.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Issuer Services
During the first quarter of 2009, Issuer Services revenues declined $10 million, or 11%, to $79 million from the first quarter of 2008 and declined $6 million, or 7%, from the prior quarter.
Global Listing Services
Global Listing Services revenues were $70 million for the first quarter of 2009, down $8 million when compared to the first quarter of 2008 and down $5 million from the fourth quarter of 2008. Decreases in revenues from prior periods are due primarily to lower U.S. annual renewal fees resulting from fewer listed companies, and to lower market capitalization values for European listed equities, which in turn result in lower European listing fees. Also contributing to the decline in revenues from the first quarter of 2008 are changes in the exchange rates of various currencies as compared to the U.S. dollar. Contributing to the decline in revenues when compared to the fourth quarter of 2008 are seasonally lower corporate services revenues.
Global Index Group
Global Index Group revenues were $9 million for the first quarter of 2009, down $2 million when compared to the first quarter of 2008 and $1 million when compared to the fourth quarter of 2008. Driving the decline in revenues are lower license fees associated with NASDAQ OMX-licensed products, including lower volumes and declines in assets under management in ETFs and structured products.
 
 
Market Technology
Market Technology revenues were $29 million for the first quarter of 2009, down $4 million, or 12%, when compared to the first quarter of 2008, and down $6 million, or 17%, when compared to the fourth quarter of 2008. The revenue decline when compared to the prior year quarter is primarily due to changes in exchange rates of various currencies as compared to the U.S. dollar. Also contributing to the decline is the loss of contract revenues following NASDAQ OMX's acquisition of Nord Pool ASA's clearing, international derivatives and consulting subsidiaries, noted above. Nord Pool ASA was previously a customer of NASDAQ OMX Market Technology. The decline in revenues when compared to the fourth quarter of 2008 is primarily due to seasonally higher revenues for the prior period, the partial loss of contract revenues from the Nord Pool ASA transaction noted above, and to changes in exchange rates of various currencies as compared to the U.S. dollar.
Operating Expenses
Total operating expenses decreased $55 million, or 22%, to $194 million from $249 million in the prior year quarter and $19 million, or 9%, from $213 million in the fourth quarter of 2008. The decrease in expenses was realized through a reduction in compensation expense, lower depreciation expense, reduced expenses for computer operations and data transmission, and lower general, administrative and other expense. The decline in expenses is driven by successful integration efforts associated with NASDAQ's business combination with OMX and the acquisition of the Philadelphia Stock Exchange.
Net Interest Expense
Net interest expense was $22 million for the first quarter of 2009, compared with $29 million for the first quarter of 2008 and $28 million for the fourth quarter of 2008. The decline in net interest expense when compared to the prior periods is primarily due to lower interest rates on outstanding debt obligations.
Earnings Per Share
On a non-GAAP basis, first quarter 2009 earnings per diluted share were $0.48 as compared to pro forma non-GAAP earnings per diluted share of $0.44 in the prior year quarter, and non-GAAP earnings per diluted share of $0.52 in the fourth quarter of 2008. NASDAQ OMX's weighted average shares outstanding used to calculate diluted earnings per share were 214.3 million in the first quarter of 2009 versus 214.1 million for both the year-ago quarter and the fourth quarter of 2008.
About NASDAQ OMX
The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. is the world's largest exchange company. It delivers trading, exchange technology and public company services across six continents, with approximately 3,800 listed companies. NASDAQ OMX offers multiple capital raising solutions to companies around the globe, including its U.S. listings market, NASDAQ OMX Nordic, NASDAQ OMX Baltic, NASDAQ OMX First North, and the U.S. 144A sector. The company offers trading across multiple asset classes including equities, derivatives, debt, commodities, structured products and exchange-traded funds. NASDAQ OMX technology supports the operations of over 70 exchanges, clearing organizations and central securities depositories in more than 50 countries. NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic are not legal entities but describe the common offering from NASDAQ OMX exchanges in Helsinki, Copenhagen, Stockholm, Iceland, Tallinn, Riga, and Vilnius. For more information about NASDAQ OMX, visit .
http://www.nasdaqomx.com
 
 
Non-GAAP Information
In addition to disclosing results determined in accordance with GAAP, NASDAQ OMX also discloses certain non-GAAP and pro forma non-GAAP results of operations, including net income, diluted earnings per share, and operating expenses that make certain adjustments or exclude certain charges and gains that are described in the reconciliation table of GAAP to pro forma non-GAAP information provided at the end of this release.Management believes that this non-GAAP and pro forma non-GAAP information provides investors with additional information to assess NASDAQ OMX's operating performance by making certain adjustments or excluding costs or gains and assists investors in comparing our operating performance to prior periods. Management uses this non-GAAP and pro forma non-GAAP information, along with GAAP information, in evaluating its historical operating performance.
The non-GAAP information is not prepared in accordance with GAAP and may not be comparable to non-GAAP information used by other companies. The non-GAAP information should not be viewed as a substitute for, or superior to, other data prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Information set forth in this communication contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. NASDAQ OMX cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to (i) projections about our future financial results, growth and achievement of synergy targets, (ii) statements about the implementation dates and benefits of certain strategic initiatives, (iii) statements about our integrations of OMX, the Philadelphia Stock Exchange and certain subsidiaries of Nord Pool, and (iv) other statements that are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties or other factors beyond NASDAQ OMX's control. These factors include, but are not limited to, NASDAQ OMX's ability to implement its strategic initiatives, economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, government and industry regulation, interest rate risk, U.S. and global competition, and other factors detailed in NASDAQ OMX's filings with the U.S. Securities Exchange Commission, including its annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q which are available on NASDAQ OMX's website at http://www.nasdaqomx.com and the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. NASDAQ OMX undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


