FILE:NDAQ/NDAQ-8K-20091105071748.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 5, 2009, The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. ("NASDAQ OMX") issued a press release providing financial results for the third quarter of 2009. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
On November 5, 2009, NASDAQ OMX posted slides to be used in its earnings presentation for the third quarter of 2009 on its website at .
http://ir.nasdaqomx.com/
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
The information set forth under "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and "Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure" is intended to be furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and Item 7.01, respectively. Such information, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any of NASDAQ OMX's filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
November 5, 2009
New York, N.Y.The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. ("NASDAQ OMX"; NASDAQ: NDAQ) today reported net income attributable to NASDAQ OMX of $60 million, or $0.28 per diluted share, for the third quarter of 2009 compared with net income attributable to NASDAQ OMX of $58 million, or $0.27 per diluted share, in the third quarter of 2008, and net income attributable to NASDAQ OMX of $69 million, or $0.33 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2009.
For comparison purposes, results for the second and third quarters of 2009 are presented on a non-GAAP basis and exclude merger expenses, losses on the sale of investments, a debt conversion expense, and certain other non-recurring items. Results for the third quarter of 2008 are presented on a pro forma non-GAAP basis that reflect the financial results of NASDAQ OMX and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange as if they were a combined company for the period presented and exclude merger expenses and certain other non-recurring items. A complete reconciliation of GAAP results to non-GAAP and to pro forma non-GAAP results is provided as an attachment.
For the third quarter of 2009, net income attributable to NASDAQ OMX on a non-GAAP basis was $89 million, or $0.42 per diluted share, a decrease of 18%, when compared to pro forma non-GAAP net income attributable to NASDAQ OMX of $108 million, or $0.51 per diluted share, for the third quarter of 2008, and a decrease of 10% when compared to non-GAAP net income attributable to NASDAQ OMX of $99 million, or $0.47 per diluted share, for the second quarter of 2009.
Items excluded from third quarter 2009 non-GAAP results are:
 
 
 
"As stated throughout this year, we've targeted organic growth initiatives designed to bring transparency and innovation to the markets and are pleased to see several of these strategic initiatives gain traction," commented Bob Greifeld, NASDAQ OMX's Chief Executive Officer. "The growth of the BX market has established it as the most successful new trading venue, as it now averages more than 3.5% of the U.S. cash equities market. The recent move to a positive fee structure at BX follows a similar move at The NASDAQ Options Market, with the combined actions expected to make significant contributions to our results. And in our Market Technology business we are excited that the Osaka Securities Exchange and the Kuwait Stock Exchange each selected NASDAQ OMX as their strategic technology partner.
We will continue to be innovative and use our technology leadership to bring new, creative market solutions to our trading community and to our exchange partners around the world."
Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"During the third quarter, NASDAQ OMX continued to execute on a key priority of lowering total debt obligations," noted Adena Friedman, Chief Financial Officer. "Through principal debt payments, repurchases of convertible notes, the conversion of convertible notes, as well as other actions, we have been able to reduce total debt obligations by approximately $452 million this year alone. Looking forward, we will continue to maintain the same financial discipline that has provided NASDAQ OMX with the flexibility needed to compete effectively. For the full year of 2009, we are updating our guidance for total operating expenses to be in the range of $840 million to $850 million, including approximately $50 million in non-recurring costs."
Financial Review
Revenues
Revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees ("net exchange revenues") were $349 million for the third quarter of 2009, a decrease of $62 million, or 15%, from third quarter 2008 results, of which $14 million was due to changes in the exchange rates of various currencies as compared to the U.S. dollar. Net exchange revenues declined $18 million, or 5%, from second quarter 2009 results.
 
Market Services
Market Services net exchange revenues decreased to $230 million, down 21% from the prior year quarter, and down 7% from the second quarter of 2009.
Transaction Services
Net exchange revenues from Transaction Services were $139 million for the third quarter of 2009, a decrease of $51 million, or 27%, when compared to the third quarter of 2008, and a decrease of $16 million, or 10%, from the second quarter of 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Market Data
Market Data revenues were $79 million for the third quarter of 2009, down $8 million, or 9%, when compared to the third quarter of 2008 and equal to revenues reported in the second quarter of 2009.
 
 
 
Issuer Services
During the third quarter of 2009, Issuer Services revenues declined $9 million, or 10%, to $80 million from the third quarter of 2008 and decreased $2 million, or 2%, from the prior quarter.
Global Listing Services
Global Listing Services revenues were $70 million for the third quarter of 2009, down $6 million, or 8%, when compared to the third quarter of 2008 and down $2 million, or 3%, from the second quarter of 2009. Decreases in revenues from the prior year period are due primarily to lower U.S. annual renewal fees resulting from fewer listed companies, and to lower market capitalization values for European listed equities, which in turn result in
 
lower European listing fees. Also contributing to the decline in revenues from the third quarter of 2008 are changes in the exchange rates of various currencies as compared to the U.S. dollar. The decline when compared to the second quarter of 2009 is due to seasonally lower demand for corporate services.
Global Index Group
Global Index Group revenues were $10 million for the third quarter of 2009, down $3 million, or 23%, when compared to the third quarter of 2008 and equal to second quarter of 2009 revenues. Driving the decline in revenues when compared to the prior year quarter are lower license fees associated with NASDAQ OMX-licensed products, related to lower volumes in licensed derivatives and declines in assets under management in ETFs and structured products.
Market Technology
Market Technology revenues were $36 million for the third quarter of 2009, up $7 million, or 24%, when compared to the third quarter of 2008, and equal to the second quarter of 2009 revenues. Revenues increased when compared to the prior year quarter primarily due to the increased deliveries of market technology contracts.
Operating Expenses
Total operating expenses decreased $25 million, or 11%, to $197 million from $222 million in the prior year quarter and decreased $2 million, or 1%, from $199 million in the second quarter of 2009. The decrease in expenses from the third quarter of 2008 was realized through a reduction in compensation expense, lower marketing and advertising expense, reduced expenses for computer operations and data transmission, and lower general, administrative and other expense. These reductions were driven by successful integration efforts associated with NASDAQ's business combination with OMX and the acquisition of the Philadelphia Stock Exchange. Also contributing to the decline were changes in the exchange rates of various currencies as compared to the U.S. dollar. The decrease in expenses when compared to the second quarter of 2009 is driven by lower compensation expense, offset somewhat by increased expenses in various other line items due primarily to changes in the exchange rates of various currencies as compared to the U.S. dollar.
Net Interest Expense
Net interest expense was $23 million for the third quarter of 2009, compared with $23 million for the third quarter of 2008 and for the second quarter of 2009.
Earnings Per Share
On a non-GAAP basis, third quarter 2009 earnings per diluted share were $0.42 as compared to pro forma non-GAAP earnings per diluted share of $0.51 in the prior year quarter, and non-GAAP earnings per diluted share of $0.47 in the second quarter of 2009. NASDAQ OMX's weighted average shares outstanding used to calculate diluted earnings per
 
share was 215 million for the third quarter of 2009 compared with 214 million for the third quarter of 2008 and the second quarter of 2009.
About NASDAQ OMX
The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. is the world's largest exchange company. It delivers trading, exchange technology and public company services across six continents, with approximately 3,700 listed companies. NASDAQ OMX offers multiple capital raising solutions to companies around the globe, including its U.S. listings market, NASDAQ OMX Nordic, NASDAQ OMX Baltic, NASDAQ OMX First North, and the U.S. 144A sector. The company offers trading across multiple asset classes including equities, derivatives, debt, commodities, structured products and exchange-traded funds. NASDAQ OMX technology supports the operations of over 70 exchanges, clearing organizations and central securities depositories in more than 50 countries. NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic are not legal entities but describe the common offering from NASDAQ OMX exchanges in Helsinki, Copenhagen, Stockholm, Iceland, Tallinn, Riga, and Vilnius. For more information about NASDAQ OMX, visit http://www.nasdaqomx.com. *Please follow NASDAQ OMX on Twitter (http://twitter.com/nasdaq) and Facebook (http://www.facebook.com/pages/NASDAQcom/13881287428).
Non-GAAP Information
In addition to disclosing results determined in accordance with GAAP, NASDAQ OMX also discloses certain non-GAAP and pro forma non-GAAP results of operations, including net income, diluted earnings per share, operating expenses, and operating income that make certain adjustments or exclude certain charges and gains that are described in the reconciliation table of GAAP to pro forma non-GAAP information provided at the end of this release.Management believes that this non-GAAP and pro forma non-GAAP information provides investors with additional information to assess NASDAQ OMX's operating performance by making certain adjustments or excluding costs or gains and assists investors in comparing our operating performance to prior periods. Management uses this non-GAAP and pro forma non-GAAP information, along with GAAP information, in evaluating its historical operating performance.
The non-GAAP information is not prepared in accordance with GAAP and may not be comparable to non-GAAP information used by other companies. The non-GAAP information should not be viewed as a substitute for, or superior to, other data prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Information set forth in this communication contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. NASDAQ OMX cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to (i) projections about our future
 
financial results, growth, trading volumes and achievement of synergy targets, (ii) statements about the implementation dates and benefits of certain strategic initiatives, (iii) statements about our integrations of our recent acquisitions and (iv) other statements that are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties or other factors beyond NASDAQ OMX's control. These factors include, but are not limited to, NASDAQ OMX's ability to implement its strategic initiatives, economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, government and industry regulation, interest rate risk, U.S. and global competition, and other factors detailed in NASDAQ OMX's filings with the U.S. Securities Exchange Commission, including its annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q which are available on NASDAQ OMX's website at http://www.nasdaqomx.com and the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. NASDAQ OMX undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


