FILE:NDAQ/NDAQ-8K-20090806072803.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On August 6, 2009, The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. ("NASDAQ OMX") issued a press release providing financial results for the second quarter of 2009. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
On August 6, 2009, NASDAQ OMX posted slides to be used in its earnings presentation for the second quarter of 2009 on its website at .
http://ir.nasdaqomx.com/
 
(d) Exhibits.
 
The information set forth under "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and "Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure" is intended to be furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and Item 7.01, respectively. Such information, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any of NASDAQ OMX's filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
August 6, 2009
New York, N.Y. - The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. ("NASDAQ OMX"; NASDAQ: NDAQ) today reported net income attributable to NASDAQ OMX of $69 million, or $0.33 per diluted share, for the second quarter of 2009 compared with net income attributable to NASDAQ OMX of $100 million, or $0.47 per diluted share, in the second quarter of 2008, and net income attributable to NASDAQ OMX of $94 million, or $0.44 per diluted share, in the first quarter of 2009.
For comparison purposes, results for the first and second quarters of 2009 are presented on a non-GAAP basis and exclude merger expenses, losses on the sale of investments, and certain other non-recurring items. Results for the second quarter of 2008 are presented on a pro forma non-GAAP basis that reflect the financial results of NASDAQ OMX and the Philadelphia Stock Exchange as if they were a combined company for the period presented and exclude merger expenses and certain other non-recurring items. A complete reconciliation of GAAP results to non-GAAP and to pro forma non-GAAP results is provided as an attachment.
For the second quarter of 2009, net income attributable to NASDAQ OMX on a non-GAAP basis was $99 million, or $0.47 per diluted share, a decrease of 1%, when compared to pro forma non-GAAP net income attributable to NASDAQ OMX of $100 million, or $0.47 per diluted share, for the second quarter of 2008, and a decrease of 3% when compared to non-GAAP net income attributable to NASDAQ OMX of $102 million, or $0.48 per diluted share, for the first quarter of 2009.
Items excluded from second quarter 2009 non-GAAP results are:
 
 
 
 
 
"We entered 2009 with an ambitious plan that contained more new initiatives than ever before, and at the mid-way point of the year we are pleased to report that we remain on track to deliver on our goals," commented Bob Greifeld, NASDAQ OMX's Chief Executive Officer. "During the second half of the year, as we migrate PHLX and Nordic trading volumes onto our common platform, we are laying a foundation to further the success of our diversified business model. Our commitment to drive growth through the execution of strategic initiatives and the realization of operating efficiencies remains firm."
Highlights
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
"Our results at the mid-point of the year demonstrate that we've stayed focused on our objectives of reducing expenses, reducing our debt obligations, and investing in organic growth opportunities," said David Warren, NASDAQ OMX's Chief Financial Officer. "Our successful integration efforts continue to allow us to invest in new initiatives while lowering our overall expense base. For the full year of 2009 we are reaffirming our total operating expense guidance to be in the range of $830.0 million to $850.0 million, including approximately $30.0 million in non-recurring costs."
Financial Review
Revenues
Revenues less liquidity rebates, brokerage, clearance and exchange fees ("net exchange revenues") were $367 million for the second quarter of 2009, a decrease of $53 million, or 13%, from second quarter 2008 results, of which $33 million was due to changes in the exchange rates of various currencies as compared to the U.S. dollar. Net exchange revenues declined $2 million, or 1%, from first quarter 2009 results.
Market Services
Market Services net exchange revenues decreased to $246 million, down 13% from the prior year quarter, and down 5% from the first quarter of 2009.
Transaction Services
Net exchange revenues from Transaction Services were $155 million for the second quarter of 2009, a decrease of $25 million, or 14%, when compared to the second quarter of 2008, and a decrease of $12 million, or 7%, from the first quarter of 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Market Data
Market Data revenues were $79 million for the second quarter of 2009, down $9 million, or 10%, when compared to the second quarter of 2008 and down $2 million, or 2% from the first quarter of 2009.
 
 
 
 
 
 
Issuer Services
During the second quarter of 2009, Issuer Services revenues declined $10 million, or 11%, to $82 million from the second quarter of 2008 but increased $3 million, or 4%, from the prior quarter.
Global Listing Services
Global Listing Services revenues were $72 million for the second quarter of 2009, down $9 million, or 11%, when compared to the second quarter of 2008 but up $2 million, or 3%, from the first quarter of 2009. Decreases in revenues from prior periods are due primarily to lower U.S. annual renewal fees resulting from fewer listed companies, and to lower market capitalization values for European listed equities, which in turn result in lower European listing fees. Also contributing to the decline in revenues from the second quarter of 2008 are changes in the exchange rates of various currencies as compared to the U.S. dollar. Driving the increase in revenues when compared to the first quarter of 2009 are higher corporate services revenues resulting from increased demand for services.
Global Index Group
Global Index Group revenues were $10 million for the second quarter of 2009, down $1 million, or 9%, when compared to the second quarter of 2008 but up $1 million, or 11%, when compared to the first quarter of 2009. Driving the decline in revenues when compared to the prior year quarter are lower license fees associated with NASDAQ OMX-licensed products, including lower volumes and declines in assets under management in ETFs and structured products. Higher revenues when compared to the first quarter of 2009 are due to increases in assets under management in ETFs and structured products.
Market Technology
Market Technology revenues were $36 million for the second quarter of 2009, down $7 million, or 16%, when compared to the second quarter of 2008, but up $7 million, or 24%, when compared to the first quarter of 2009. The revenue decline when compared to the prior year quarter is primarily due to the loss of contract revenues following NASDAQ OMX's acquisition of Nord Pool ASA's clearing, international derivatives and consulting subsidiaries, noted above. Nord Pool ASA was previously a customer of NASDAQ OMX Market Technology. Also contributing to the decline are changes in exchange rates of various currencies as compared to the U.S. dollar. The increase in revenues when compared to the first quarter of 2009 is primarily due to seasonally higher revenues for the second quarter of 2009.
Operating Expenses
Total operating expenses decreased $52 million, or 21%, to $199 million from $251 million in the prior year quarter but increased $5 million, or 3%, from $194 million in the first quarter of 2009. The decrease in expenses from the second quarter of 2008 was realized through a reduction in compensation expense, lower professional and contract services expense, reduced expenses for computer operations and data transmission, and lower general, administrative and other expense. These reductions were driven by successful
 
 
integration efforts associated with NASDAQ's business combination with OMX and the acquisition of the Philadelphia Stock Exchange. Also contributing to the decline were changes in the exchange rates of various currencies as compared to the U.S. dollar. The increase in expenses when compared to the first quarter of 2009 is driven by higher compensation expense and changes in the exchange rates of various currencies as compared to the U.S. dollar.
Net Interest Expense
Net interest expense was $23 million for the second quarter of 2009, compared with $24 million for the second quarter of 2008 and $22 million for the first quarter of 2009. The decline in net interest expense when compared to the prior year period is primarily due to declining interest rates. The increase when compared to the first quarter of 2009 is due to lower interest income earned on cash reserves which resulted from lower interest rates during the second quarter of 2009.
Earnings Per Share
On a non-GAAP basis, second quarter 2009 earnings per diluted share were $0.47 as compared to pro forma non-GAAP earnings per diluted share of $0.47 in the prior year quarter, and non-GAAP earnings per diluted share of $0.48 in the first quarter of 2009. NASDAQ OMX's weighted average shares outstanding used to calculate diluted earnings per share were 214 million for each of the periods reported.
In June 2009, NASDAQ OMX filed an application for an advance tax ruling with the Swedish Tax Council for Advanced Tax Rulings. The application was filed to confirm whether certain interest expense is deductible for Swedish tax purposes under legislation that became effective on January 1, 2009. We expect to receive a favorable response from the Swedish Tax Council for Advance Tax Rulings by our fiscal year end 2009. We recorded the Swedish tax benefit as described above in our condensed consolidated financial statements. In the second quarter of 2009, we recorded a tax benefit of $5 million, or $0.02 per diluted share. For the first six months of 2009, we recorded a tax benefit of $9 million, or $0.04 per diluted share. We expect to record recurring quarterly tax benefits of $4 million to $5 million with respect to this issue for the foreseeable future.
About NASDAQ OMX
The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. is the world's largest exchange company. It delivers trading, exchange technology and public company services across six continents, with approximately 3,700 listed companies. NASDAQ OMX offers multiple capital raising solutions to companies around the globe, including its U.S. listings market, NASDAQ OMX Nordic, NASDAQ OMX Baltic, NASDAQ OMX First North, and the U.S. 144A sector. The company offers trading across multiple asset classes including equities, derivatives, debt, commodities, structured products and exchange-traded funds. NASDAQ OMX technology supports the operations of over 70 exchanges, clearing organizations and central securities depositories in more than 50 countries. NASDAQ OMX Nordic and NASDAQ OMX Baltic are not legal entities but describe the common offering from NASDAQ OMX exchanges in Helsinki, Copenhagen, Stockholm, Iceland, Tallinn, Riga, and Vilnius. For more information about NASDAQ OMX, visit .
http://www.nasdaqomx.com
Non-GAAP Information
In addition to disclosing results determined in accordance with GAAP, NASDAQ OMX also discloses certain non-GAAP and pro forma non-GAAP results of operations, including net
 
 
income, diluted earnings per share, operating expenses, and operating income that make certain adjustments or exclude certain charges and gains that are described in the reconciliation table of GAAP to pro forma non-GAAP information provided at the end of this release. Management believes that this non-GAAP and pro forma non-GAAP information provides investors with additional information to assess NASDAQ OMX's operating performance by making certain adjustments or excluding costs or gains and assists investors in comparing our operating performance to prior periods. Management uses this non-GAAP and pro forma non-GAAP information, along with GAAP information, in evaluating its historical operating performance.
The non-GAAP information is not prepared in accordance with GAAP and may not be comparable to non-GAAP information used by other companies. The non-GAAP information should not be viewed as a substitute for, or superior to, other data prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Information set forth in this communication contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. NASDAQ OMX cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to (i) projections about our future financial results, growth and achievement of synergy targets, (ii) statements about the implementation dates and benefits of certain strategic initiatives, (iii) statements about our integrations of our recent acquisitions, (iv) statements about the outcome of the application for an advance tax ruling with the Swedish Tax Council for Advanced Tax Rulings and related tax benefits and (v) other statements that are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties or other factors beyond NASDAQ OMX's control. These factors include, but are not limited to, NASDAQ OMX's ability to implement its strategic initiatives, economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, government and industry regulation, interest rate risk, U.S. and global competition, and other factors detailed in NASDAQ OMX's filings with the U.S. Securities Exchange Commission, including its annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q which are available on NASDAQ OMX's website at http://www.nasdaqomx.com and the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. NASDAQ OMX undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


