FILE:NDAQ/NDAQ-8K-20121024071136.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 24, 2012, The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. ("NASDAQ OMX") issued a press release providing financial results for the third quarter of 2012. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On October 24, 2012, NASDAQ OMX posted slides to be used in its earnings presentation for the third quarter of 2012 on its website at .
http://ir.nasdaqomx.com/
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On October 24, 2012, NASDAQ OMX issued a press release announcing the declaration of a quarterly cash dividend. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
The information set forth under "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and "Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure" is intended to be furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and Item 7.01, respectively. Such information, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any of NASDAQ OMX's filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
October 24, 2012
 
 
 
The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. (NASDAQ: NDAQ) today reported results for the third quarter of 2012. Third quarter net exchange revenues were $409 million, down six percent compared to the third quarter of 2011. Excluding the impact of foreign currency, third quarter 2012 net exchange revenues declined four percent year-over-year.
New York, N.Y.
Operating expenses were $239 million, compared to $241 million in the third quarter of 2011. On a non-GAAP basis, third quarter 2012 operating expenses were $228 million, down $4 million year-over-year.
Third quarter 2012 non-GAAP diluted earnings per share was $0.62, down $0.05 compared to the prior year quarter. Non-GAAP earnings per share in the third quarter of 2012 excludes a loss on the sale of IDCG of $14 million, restructuring charges of $10 million, merger and strategic initiatives net gain of $3 million, and special legal expenses of $4 million. On a GAAP basis, net income attributable to NASDAQ OMX for the third quarter of 2012 was $89 million, or $0.52 per diluted share, compared with $110 million, or $0.61 per diluted share, in the prior year quarter.
"Our strategy to build a diversified franchise that generates substantial recurring revenues and cash flows, even against the backdrop of U.S. and Nordic equity volumes declining over 30 percent year-over-year, is clearly paying dividends,"
said
Bob Greifeld,
CEO, NASDAQ OMX.
"Despite the low level of trading activity, we remain focused on the factors that allow us to continue to win in our markets, and position us ideally for when a higher level of trading activity resumes. We continued to exercise disciplined expense control and continued to invest in our future through our "GIFT" internal investment program. This program has resulted in a variety of new initiatives this year, including our successful BX Options exchange introduction. We will continue to fund these innovative ideas, which drive organic growth and diversify our business into compelling adjacent markets."
Mr. Greifeld continued,
said: "We are pleased that the cost reduction plan that we put in place in the first quarter has enabled us to deliver strong expense control, without sacrificing investment in our business. Our previously announced cost reduction plan is on track to reduce our cost base by a $50 million run rate by the end of fiscal 2012. As a result of our ongoing efforts to manage the
Lee Shavel, NASDAQ OMX's EVP and Chief Financial Officer,
 
expense base, we are reducing our fiscal 2012 operating expense guidance to $922 to $935 million, down from the previous range of $935 to $965 million. In addition to prudently managing our cost base, we continued to generate substantial capital and to execute on our strategy to deploy that capital effectively. Year-to-date, we have returned $225 million to our shareholders through buybacks and $43 million through our dividend program. As always, we approach our capital deployment initiatives with the goal of maximizing return on invested capital to deliver substantial value for our shareholders."
At September 30, 2012, the company had cash and cash equivalents of $438 million and total debt of $1,986 million, resulting in net debt of $1,548 million. This compares to net debt of $1,611 million at December 31, 2011. During the third quarter of 2012, the company repurchased 2.2 million shares of outstanding common stock under a share repurchase program, for a total of $50 million. Since January 2009, we have repurchased $1,122 million of outstanding common stock, representing 51.3 million shares at an average price of $21.90.
BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS
Net exchange revenues were $269 million in the third quarter of 2012, down $31 million when compared to the third quarter of 2011.
Market Services
(66% of
total net exchange revenues)
-
Total net cash equity trading revenues were $47 million in the third quarter of 2012, down $20 million compared to the third quarter of 2011. Trading volumes declined from the prior year period when the European debt crisis and the uncertainty surrounding the U.S. debt ceiling generated substantial market volatility and volumes.
Cash Equities
(11%
of total
net exchange revenues
) 
Total net derivative trading and clearing revenues were $72 million in the third quarter of 2012, down $12 million compared to the third quarter of 2011. The decline was primarily due to lower industry trading volumes in the U.S. and the Nordics, as well as an unfavorable impact from foreign exchange of $2 million. This decline was partially offset by market share and revenue capture gains in our U.S. equity options business.
Derivatives (
18
% of total
net exchange revenues
) 
Access and broker services revenues totaled $66 million, up $1 million compared to the third quarter of 2011. The increase was primarily driven by the uptake of new products including 40G connectivity.
Access
and Broker
Services (
16
% of total
net exchange revenues
) 
Total Market Data revenues of $84 million reflect a $1 million increase compared to the year ago quarter. The increase in Market Data revenues was driven by growth in U.S. proprietary products and pricing initiatives, partially offset by lower net revenues in U.S. tape plans and European data.
Market Data (
21
% of total
net exchange revenues
) 
Revenues were $93 million in the third quarter of 2012, up $3 million compared to the third quarter of 2011. Corporate Solutions revenues increased $6 million, driven by the acquisitions of BWise in May 2012 and Glide Technologies in October 2011 and growth in our Shareholder.com and GlobeNewswire products. The Global Index Group's revenues increased by $1 million, or 8% year-over-year, driven by increased assets under management of licensed financial products.
Issuer
Services (
2
3
% of total net exchange revenues) 
 
 
Revenues of $47 million in the third quarter of 2012 increased $1 million compared to the third quarter of 2011.
Market Technology (
11
% of total net exchange revenues) 
For the full year of 2012, total core operating expenses are expected to be in the range of $865 million to $873 million (down from prior core expense guidance of $870 to $890 million), plus $32 million to $36 million in incremental new initiative spending, and an additional $25 million to $26 million due to the BWise and NOS acquisitions, resulting in total operating expenses in the range of $922 million to $935 million, down from previous guidance of $935 to $965 million. This guidance excludes expenses related to the cost reduction plan and expenses for the proposed voluntary accommodation program and special legal expenses.
COST GUIDANCE 
About NASDAQ OMX Group
The inventor of the electronic exchange, The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc., fuels economies and provides transformative technologies for the entire lifecycle of a trade - from risk management to trade to surveillance to clearing. In the U.S. and Europe, we own and operate 23 markets, 3 clearinghouses and 5 central securities depositories supporting equities, options, fixed income, derivatives, commodities, futures and structured products. Able to process more than 1 million messages per second at sub-40 microsecond speeds with 99.99+% uptime, our technology drives more than 70 marketplaces in 50 developed and emerging countries into the future, powering 1 in 10 of the world's securities transactions. Our award-winning data products and worldwide indexes are the benchmarks in the financial industry. Home to approximately 3,400 listed companies worth $6 trillion in market cap whose innovations shape our world, we give the ideas of tomorrow access to capital today. Welcome to where the world takes a big leap forward, daily. Welcome to the NASDAQ OMX Century. To learn more, visit www.nasdaqomx.com. Follow us on Facebook (www.facebook.com/NASDAQ) and Twitter (www.twitter.com/nasdaqomx). (Symbol: NDAQ and member of S&P 500)
Non-GAAP Information
In addition to disclosing results determined in accordance with GAAP, NASDAQ OMX also discloses certain non-GAAP results of operations, including, but not limited to, net income attributable to NASDAQ OMX, diluted earnings per share, net exchange revenues, operating income, and operating expenses, that make certain adjustments or exclude certain charges and gains that are described in the reconciliation table of GAAP to non-GAAP information provided at the end of this release. Management believes that this non-GAAP information provides investors with additional information to assess NASDAQ OMX's operating performance by making certain adjustments or excluding costs or gains and assists investors in comparing our operating performance to prior periods. Management uses this non-GAAP information, along with GAAP information, in evaluating its historical operating performance.
The non-GAAP information is not prepared in accordance with GAAP and may not be comparable to non-GAAP information used by other companies. The non-GAAP information should not be viewed as a substitute for, or superior to, other data prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Information set forth in this communication contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. NASDAQ OMX cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results
 
 
could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to (i) projections about our future financial results, growth, trading volumes, tax benefits and achievement of synergy targets, (ii) statements about the implementation dates and benefits of certain strategic and capital return initiatives, (iii) statements about our integrations of our recent acquisitions and (iv) other statements that are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties or other factors beyond NASDAQ OMX's control. These factors include, but are not limited to, NASDAQ OMX's ability to implement its strategic initiatives, economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, government and industry regulation, interest rate risk, U.S. and global competition, and other factors detailed in NASDAQ OMX's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including its annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q which are available on NASDAQ OMX's website at http://www.nasdaqomx.com and the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. NASDAQ OMX undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
NDAQF
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
October 24, 2012
New York, N.Y. The Finance Committee of the Board of Directors of The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. (NASDAQ: NDAQ) has declared a regular quarterly dividend of $0.13 per share on the company's outstanding common stock. The dividend is payable on December 28, 2012 to shareowners of record at the close of business on December 14, 2012. Future declarations of quarterly dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to approval by the Board of Directors.
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Information set forth in this communication contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. NASDAQ OMX cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about our capital return initiatives. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties or other factors beyond NASDAQ OMX's control. These factors include, but are not limited to, NASDAQ OMX's ability to implement its strategic initiatives, economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, government and industry regulation, interest rate risk, U.S. and global competition, and other factors detailed in NASDAQ OMX's filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission, including its annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q which are available on NASDAQ OMX's website at http://www.nasdaqomx.com and the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. NASDAQ OMX undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
About NASDAQ OMX Group
The inventor of the electronic exchange, The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc., fuels economies and provides transformative technologies for the entire lifecycle of a trade - from risk management to trade to surveillance to clearing. In the U.S. and Europe, we own and operate 23 markets, 3 clearinghouses and 5 central securities depositories supporting equities, options, fixed income, derivatives, commodities, futures and structured products. Able to process more than 1 million messages per second at sub-40 microsecond speeds with 99.99+% uptime, our technology drives more than 70 marketplaces in 50 developed and emerging countries into the future, powering 1 in 10 of the world's securities transactions. Our award-winning data products and worldwide indexes are the benchmarks in the financial industry. Home to approximately 3,400 listed companies worth $6 trillion in market cap whose innovations shape our world, we give the ideas of tomorrow access to capital today. Welcome to where the world takes a big leap forward, daily. Welcome to the NASDAQ OMX Century. To learn more, visit www.nasdaqomx.com. Follow us on Facebook (www.facebook.com/NASDAQ) and Twitter (www.twitter.com/nasdaqomx). (Symbol: NDAQ and member of S&P 500)
 
 
NDAQF


