FILE:NDAQ/NDAQ-8K-20120425071046.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Regulation FD Disclosure	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Regulation FD Disclosure
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02. Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 25, 2012, The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. ("NASDAQ OMX") issued a press release providing financial results for the first quarter of 2012. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.1 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 7.01. Regulation FD Disclosure.
On April 25, 2012, NASDAQ OMX posted slides to be used in its earnings presentation for the first quarter of 2012 on its website at .
http://ir.nasdaqomx.com/
Item 8.01 Other Events.
On April 25, 2012, NASDAQ OMX issued a press release announcing the initiation of a quarterly cash dividend. A copy of the press release is attached as Exhibit 99.2 to this Current Report on Form 8-K and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits.
 
The information set forth under "Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition" and "Item 7.01 Regulation FD Disclosure" is intended to be furnished pursuant to Item 2.02 and Item 7.01, respectively. Such information, including Exhibit 99.1, shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference into any of NASDAQ OMX's filings under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, except as expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
 
 
The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. ("NASDAQ OMX"; NASDAQ: NDAQ) today reported results for the first quarter of 2012. First quarter net exchange revenues
New York, N.Y.
1
were $411 million compared to $413 million in the first quarter of 2011. On a constant currency basis, first quarter 2012 net exchange revenues increased by $3 million, or up 1% compared to the prior year quarter.
Operating expenses were $240 million, compared to $230 million in the first quarter of 2011. On a non-GAAP basis, excluding $9 million of restructuring and other charges, and $2 million of merger and strategic initiative expenses, operating expenses were $229 million in the first quarter of 2012. Non-GAAP operating expenses were up $8 million, or up $10 million on a constant currency basis, compared to the prior year quarter primarily due to higher professional and contract services expense, higher occupancy expense as well as slightly higher marketing and advertising expense.
First quarter non-GAAP diluted earnings per share was $0.61, on par with the prior year results. Non-GAAP earnings per share exclude $9 million of restructuring and other charges, $2 million of merger and strategic initiatives expense, and a $12 million impairment charge on the write down of our equity investment in EMCF. Net income attributable to NASDAQ OMX for the first quarter of 2012 was $85 million, or $0.48 per diluted share, compared with $104 million, or $0.57 per diluted share, in the prior year quarter.
"In the first quarter, we achieved non-GAAP EPS of $0.61, at the same level as of the prior year, and our fourth best quarterly result ever. While we experienced a decline in our volume driven U.S. cash equity trading and U.S. derivative trading and clearing businesses compared to the prior year quarter, these declines were almost completely offset by growth in our other businesses. This continues to highlight the importance and success of our ongoing efforts to diversify our business model. Against this backdrop, we continue to focus on the things that we can control. We have introduced a cost reduction plan and anticipate an annualized run rate of $50 million in cost savings by the end of 2012, with $25 million in cost savings realized in 2012. We initiated these efforts as part of our ongoing commitment to cost leadership. The cost reduction plan ensures that we will have the correct business infrastructure in place should the current weak business trends continue, and it positions us well for when our business returns to growth."
Bob Greifeld, NASDAQ OMX's CEO, commented:
 
"We are pleased to be taking the next step in our capital return strategy, initiating a cash dividend to complement our ongoing share repurchase program as a means of returning capital to our shareholders. This decision was based on rigorous financial analysis, and underscores the stability of our operations, the strength of our cash flows and our confidence in the company's attractive business model. We continue to focus on having a balanced capital deployment effort, and in the past quarter we reduced debt by $110 million, further deleveraging our balance sheet and enhancing our financial flexibility for the future. NASDAQ OMX also returned another $50 million to shareholders through our ongoing share repurchase program during the quarter."
Lee Shavel, NASDAQ OMX's EVP and Chief Financial Officer, said:
NASDAQ OMX announces it has signed a non-binding agreement with LCH.Clearnet Group Limited regarding LCH.Clearnet Group's proposed acquisition of International Derivatives Clearing Group, LLC ("IDCG"). If the transaction proceeds, LCH.Clearnet Group would become the sole owner of IDCG and NASDAQ OMX would become a shareholder of LCH.Clearnet Group.
In anticipation of new regulations proposed by the European Market Infrastructure Regulation, NASDAQ OMX Nordic Clearing implemented a member default fund structure. Under this new regulatory structure, clearing members are required to contribute to the total regulatory capital. As of March 31, 2012, total member contributions equaled $163 million of which $145 million were cash contributions. As a result, NASDAQ OMX released $83 million in clearing capital, with an additional estimated $30 million to be released in the second quarter.
At March 31, 2012, the company had cash and cash equivalents of $525 million and total debt of $2,007 million, resulting in net debt of $1,482 million. This compares to net debt of $1,611 million at December 31, 2011. During the first quarter, we repurchased 1.9 million shares of our outstanding common stock under our share repurchase program, for a total of $50 million. Since January 2009, we have repurchased approximately $950 million of our outstanding common stock, representing 43.7 million shares at an average price of $21.66.
BUSINESS HIGHLIGHTS
Total net cash equity trading revenues were $53 million in the first quarter of 2012, down $9 million compared to the first quarter of 2011. The decline was primarily driven by lower industry trading volumes in the U.S. (6.83 billion average daily share volume in Q112 vs. 7.94 billion in Q111). During the quarter, NASDAQ OMX maintained its leadership share of total U.S. matched volume. U.S. cash equity trading revenue capture was lower, driven by our discounted Investor Support Program, a volume incentive program which accounted for an increased proportion of our volume.
Cash Equities (13% of total net exchange revenues) 
Total net derivative trading and clearing revenues were $74 million in the first quarter of 2012, down $6 million compared to the first quarter of 2011. The year-over-year decline was the result of lower industry trading volumes, and a slightly lower market share in the U.S. derivative market.
Derivatives (18% of total net exchange revenues) 
Revenues of $62 million were up $5 million compared to the first quarter of 2011. The increase was primarily driven by increased demand for Access Services.
Access and Broker Services (15% of total net exchange revenues) 
 
Total Market Data revenues of $87 million reflect a $6 million increase compared to the year ago quarter. The increase in Market Data revenues was primarily the result of increased U.S. tape plan revenues and increased sales of U.S. proprietary market data products.
Market Data (21% of total net exchange revenues) 
Revenues were $90 million in the quarter, up $1 million compared to the first quarter of 2011, as increased Corporate Solutions and Global Index Group revenues more than offset lower listing fee revenues. Corporate Solutions revenues were impacted by a reclassification which nets $2.5 million of offsetting revenues and costs. The reclassification also impacts prior year periods.
Issuer Services (22% of total net exchange revenues) 
Revenues of $45 million increased $2 million, or 5%, compared to the first quarter of 2011.
Market Technology (11% of total net exchange revenues) 
For the full year of 2012 total core operating expenses are expected to be in the range of $880 million to $900 million, plus an additional $40 million to $50 million in incremental new initiative spending, resulting in total operating expenses in the range of $920 million to $950 million. This revised guidance reflects the partial realization in 2012 of our cost reduction plan, and the estimated $10 million reduction in expenses resulting from the Corporate Solutions expense reclassification. Our revised 2012 cost guidance reflects $25 million in cost savings resulting from our cost reduction plan. This cost guidance excludes an anticipated restructuring charge, currently estimated at $30 million, related to the cost reduction plan.
COST GUIDANCE 
About NASDAQ OMX Group
The inventor of the electronic exchange, The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc., fuels economies and provides transformative technologies for the entire lifecycle of a tradefrom risk management to trade to surveillance to clearing. In the US and Europe, we own and operate 24 markets, 3 clearinghouses and 5 central securities depositories supporting equities, options, fixed income, derivatives, commodities, futures and structured products. Able to process more than 1 million messages per second at sub-40 microsecond speeds with 99.999% uptime, our technology drives more than 70 marketplaces in 50 developed and emerging countries into the future, powering 1 in 10 of the world's securities transactions. Our award-winning data products and worldwide indexes are the benchmarks in the financial industry. Home to approximately 3,400 listed companies worth $5.1 trillion in market cap whose innovations shape our world, we give the ideas of tomorrow access to capital today. Welcome to where the world takes a big leap forward, daily. Welcome to the NASDAQ OMX Century. To learn more, visit . Follow us on Facebook () and Twitter (). (Symbol: NDAQ and member of S&P 500)
www.nasdaqomx.com
http://www.facebook.com/NASDAQ
http://www.twitter.com/nasdaqomx
Non-GAAP Information
In addition to disclosing results determined in accordance with GAAP, NASDAQ OMX also discloses certain non-GAAP results of operations, including, but not limited to, net income attributable to NASDAQ OMX, diluted earnings per share, operating income, and operating expenses, that make certain adjustments or exclude certain charges and gains that are described in the reconciliation table of GAAP to non-GAAP information provided at the end of this release. Management believes that this non-GAAP information provides investors with additional information to assess NASDAQ OMX's operating performance by making certain adjustments or excluding costs or gains and assists investors in comparing our operating performance to prior periods. Management uses this non-GAAP information, along with GAAP information, in evaluating its historical operating performance.
 
The non-GAAP information is not prepared in accordance with GAAP and may not be comparable to non-GAAP information used by other companies. The non-GAAP information should not be viewed as a substitute for, or superior to, other data prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Information set forth in this communication contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. NASDAQ OMX cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to (i) projections about our future financial results, growth, trading volumes, tax benefits and achievement of synergy targets, (ii) statements about the implementation dates and benefits of certain strategic and capital return initiatives, (iii) statements about our integrations of our recent acquisitions and (iv) other statements that are not historical facts. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties or other factors beyond NASDAQ OMX's control. These factors include, but are not limited to, NASDAQ OMX's ability to implement its strategic initiatives, economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, government and industry regulation, interest rate risk, U.S. and global competition, and other factors detailed in NASDAQ OMX's filings with the U.S. Securities Exchange Commission, including its annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q which are available on NASDAQ OMX's website at http://www.nasdaqomx.com and the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. NASDAQ OMX undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
 
NDAQF
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.2
 
.The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc. ("NASDAQ OMX"; NASDAQ: NDAQ), today announced plans to initiate a quarterly cash dividend.
New York, N.Y
The board of directors approved an initial quarterly cash dividend of $0.13 per share on NASDAQ OMX's outstanding common stock to be paid on June 29, 2012 to all stockholders of record on June 15, 2012. Future declarations of quarterly dividends and the establishment of future record and payment dates are subject to approval by NASDAQ OMX's board of directors. This is the first dividend paid to stockholders in the company's history.
Bob Greifeld, Chief Executive Officer, NASDAQ OMX said: "We are pleased to take this important step for NASDAQ OMX. Our decision to put a dividend in place reflects the strong cash flow and capital generation of our business and our commitment to deliver meaningful capital returns to our shareholders through both dividends and continued share repurchases."
Lee Shavel, NASDAQ OMX's EVP and Chief Financial Officer, said: "NASDAQ OMX has done an outstanding job of capital deployment in recent years. Since January 2009, the company has repurchased approximately $950 million of its outstanding common stock, representing 43.7 million shares at an average price of $21.66. The company also paid down more than $500 million of debt, significantly reducing our interest burden and increasing our financial flexibility for the future. In addition, we have invested over $200 million in attractive acquisitions that enhance our long-term growth and capital return profile. We believe that our strong cash flows give us ample capacity to fund our dividend, while maintaining considerable flexibility to achieve our other corporate goals."
Cautionary Note Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
Information set forth in this communication contains forward-looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. NASDAQ OMX cautions readers that any forward-looking information is not a guarantee of future performance and that actual results could differ materially from those contained in the forward-looking information. Such forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements about our capital return initiatives. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties or other factors beyond NASDAQ OMX's control. These factors include, but are not limited to, NASDAQ OMX's ability to implement its strategic initiatives, economic, political and market conditions and fluctuations, government and industry regulation, interest rate risk, U.S. and global competition, and other factors detailed in NASDAQ OMX's filings with the U.S. Securities Exchange Commission, including its annual reports on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q which are available on NASDAQ OMX's website at http://www.nasdaqomx.com and the SEC's website at www.sec.gov. NASDAQ OMX undertakes no obligation to publicly update any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
About NASDAQ OMX Group
The inventor of the electronic exchange, The NASDAQ OMX Group, Inc., fuels economies and provides transformative technologies for the entire lifecycle of a trade - from risk management to trade to surveillance to clearing. In the US and Europe, we own and operate 24 markets, 3 clearinghouses and 5 central securities depositories supporting equities, options, fixed income, derivatives, commodities, futures and structured products. Able to process more than 1 million messages per second at sub-40 microsecond speeds with 99.999% uptime, our technology drives more than 70 marketplaces in 50 developed and emerging countries into the future, powering 1 in 10 of the world's securities transactions. Our award-winning data products and worldwide indexes are the benchmarks in the financial industry. Home to approximately 3,400 listed companies worth $5.1 trillion in market cap whose innovations shape our world, we give the ideas of tomorrow access to capital today. Welcome to where the world takes a big leap forward, daily. Welcome to the NASDAQ OMX Century. To learn more, visit . Follow us on Facebook () and Twitter (). (Symbol: NDAQ and member of S&P 500)
www.nasdaqomx.com
http://www.facebook.com/NASDAQ
http://www.twitter.com/nasdaqomx
 
NDAQF
 


