Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition, contains both historical and forward looking statements. All statements which are not statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. These forward looking statements are not based on historical facts, but rather reflect our current expectations concerning future results and events. Forward looking statements generally can be identified by the use of statements that include phrases such as believe, expect, anticipate, intend, plan, foresee, likely, will or other similar words or phrases. Similarly, statements that describe our objectives, plans or goals are or may be forward looking statements. These forward looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are difficult to predict and which may cause our actual results, performance or achievements to be different from any future results, performance and achievements expressed or implied by these statements. These risks, uncertainties and other factors are discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors below. Other risks, or updates to the risks discussed below, may be described from time to time in our news releases and other filings made under the securities laws, including our reports on Form 10 Q and Form 8 K. There may be additional risks, uncertainties and factors that we do not currently view as material or that are not necessarily known. The forward looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document and, under Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act, we do not have any obligation to publicly update any forward looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. 18 Table of Contents Item 1A. Risk Factors. A wide range of risks may affect our business and financial results, now and in the future. We consider the risks described below to be the most significant. There may be other currently unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that could have material adverse effects on our future results. Risks Related to our Business Our Success is Dependent upon Audience Acceptance of our Programming, Motion Pictures and Other Entertainment Content which is Difficult to Predict The production and distribution of programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content are inherently risky businesses because the revenues we derive from various sources depend primarily on our contents acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. Audience tastes change frequently and it is a challenge to anticipate what offerings will be successful at a certain point in time. The success of our programming, motion pictures and other content also depends upon the quality and acceptance of competing programs, motion pictures and other offerings available or released into the marketplace at or near the same time. Other factors, including the availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, general economic conditions, piracy, digital and on demand distribution and growing competition for consumer discretionary spending, the level of which may be decreasing due to the economic landscape, may also affect the audience for our content. In our Media Networks business, our advertising revenues typically are reflective of a programs ratings, with higher ratings generally generating higher advertising revenues. In 2007, some of our program services, including MTV, BET and Nickelodeon, experienced ratings fluctuations or declines. Those trends could continue at those or other networks and reduce the amount of advertising revenue the affected networks receive. Low audience ratings could also negatively affect the affiliate fees we receive and or limit a networks distribution potential. In addition, the advertising industry has recently begun to change the way it measures ratings, moving from audience ratings, which measure audience size for a program, to commercial ratings, which measure audience size for a commercial. Commercial ratings are currently measured on a C3 basis, which means the number of viewers that watch the commercial live or via playback during the three days following the live broadcast. This is a different way of measuring viewership, and if we are unable to successfully adapt the pricing, structure and volume of our advertising spots to this new methodology, or if viewers change channels or fast forward during commercials, our advertising revenues could decline. In our Filmed Entertainment business, the theatrical success of a motion picture affects not only the theatrical revenues we receive but also those from other distribution channels, such as DVD sales, television licenses and sales of licensed consumer products. In addition, because the timing of recognition of certain motion picture expenses is based on estimates of future revenues, such costs may be accelerated if the motion picture does not perform as expected, thereby affecting our results of operations. A poor theatrical performance may also negatively affect our negotiating strength with theater chains, distributors and retailers, resulting in less desirable product promotion. Consequently, public acceptance of our programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content is core to our business and has the ability to affect all of our revenue streams. A reduction in the popularity of our content could have a significant, adverse effect on our revenues. We Must Respond to and Capitalize on Rapid Changes in Consumer Behavior resulting from New Technologies and Distribution Platforms in Order to Remain Competitive and Exploit New Opportunities Technology in the online and mobile arenas continues to evolve rapidly. We must adapt to changing consumer behavior driven by technological advances such as video on demand, increased mobility of content and a desire for more short form, user generated and interactive content. Changing consumer behavior may impact our traditional distribution methods, for example, by reducing viewership of our programming, the demand for DVD 19 Table of Contents product or pay television subscriptions and or the desire to see motion pictures in theaters. We have recently seen an industry wide decline in domestic DVD sales, and it is uncertain if such decline will continue. In addition, consumers are increasingly viewing content from handheld or portable devices, and watching it on a time delayed basis. We must continue to adapt our content to these viewership habits. Technologies which enable users to fast forward or skip advertisements may affect the attractiveness of our offerings to advertisers and could therefore adversely affect our revenues. If we cannot adapt to the changing lifestyles and preferences of our target audiences and capitalize on technological advances with favorable business models, there could be a negative effect on our business. Increased Costs for Programming, Motion Pictures and Other Content May Adversely Affect Our Profits In our Media Networks segment, we have historically produced a significant amount of original programming and intend to continue to increase our investment in this area. We also acquire programming, such as motion pictures and television series, from other television production companies and studios and pay a license fee in connection with the acquired rights. Our investments in original and acquired programming increase our expenses, and may not be recouped when the program is broadcast or distributed, therefore leading to decreased profitability. The Filmed Entertainment segments core business involves the production, marketing and distribution of motion pictures, the costs of which have been increasing. We also release certain tentpole motion pictures that generally have higher costs than the other films released during the year. Therefore, a tentpole films underperformance theatrically can significantly affect our revenues and profitability, and negatively affect the revenues we receive from other distribution platforms. An increase in other licensing costs could also affect our profits. For example, we license music and music videos for exhibition on our cable networks, websites and other content outlets from record companies in exchange for cash or advertising time or for promotional consideration only. We have entered into global music video licensing agreements with the major record companies and major music publishers and into global or regional license agreements with certain independent record companies. We also license various other music rights from record companies, music publishers, performing rights societies and others. There can be no assurance that we will be able to obtain license renewals or additional license agreements or, if so, on favorable terms. Our Revenues, Expenses and Operating Results May Vary Based on the Timing, Mix, Number and Availability of Our Programming and Motion Pictures Our revenues and operating results fluctuate due to the timing, mix, number and availability of our theatrical motion picture and home entertainment releases, programming, and license periods for our entertainment content. For example, results may increase or decrease during a particular period due to differences in the number of films released compared to the corresponding period the prior year, or due to the timing of a major event such as an awards show falling in two different quarters year over year. Our operating results also fluctuate due to the timing of the recognition of production and print and advertising expenses, which are typically largely incurred prior to the release of programs, motion pictures and home entertainment product, with the recognition of related revenues in later periods. In addition, the success of our individual mix of titles may vary period over period, causing our operating results to fluctuate. Our business also has experienced and is expected to continue to experience some seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal advertising patterns and seasonal influences on audiences viewing habits and attendance. Typically, our revenue from advertising increases in the fourth quarter due to the holiday season and revenue from motion pictures increases in the summer, around holidays and in the fourth quarter. The effects of these variances make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the results of any specific quarter. 20 Table of Contents Piracy of Our Entertainment Content, Including Digital Piracy and Other Unauthorized Exhibitions of Our Content, May Decrease Revenue Received from Our Programming and Motion Pictures and Adversely Affect Our Business and Profitability The success of our business depends in part on our ability to maintain the intellectual property rights to our entertainment content. We are fundamentally a content company and piracy of our brands, motion pictures and DVDs, programming, digital content and other intellectual property has the potential to significantly affect us. Piracy is particularly prevalent in many parts of the world that lack effective enforcement of copyright and technical protective measures similar to existing law in the United States. However, piracy is also a challenge domestically, and the interpretation of copyright laws as applied to our content remains in flux. Piracy and other unauthorized uses of content are made easier by technological advances allowing the conversion of motion pictures, programming and other content into digital formats, which facilitates the creation, transmission and sharing of high quality unauthorized copies. Unauthorized reproduction, distribution or display of our content over the Internet or through other methods of distribution, such as through websites that allow the viewing, sharing and or downloading of entertainment content by either ignoring or interfering with the contents security features and copyrighted status is a threat to our ability to protect our creative works and to recoup or profit from the expense incurred to create such works. Unauthorized use of our entertainment content may have an adverse effect on our business because it reduces the revenue that we potentially could receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of our content. We are actively engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property, and we are increasingly expending resources in connection with these efforts. These efforts to prevent the unauthorized use of our content may affect our profitability, and may not be successful in reducing piracy. The Loss of Affiliation Agreements Could Cause Our Revenues to Decline in Any Given Period or in Specific Markets We are dependent upon our affiliation agreements with cable television operators, DTH satellite operators and other distributors for the distribution of our program services. We have agreements in place with the major distributors, some of which are currently being renegotiated, and others of which expire over the next several years and we expect to renegotiate on a rolling basis. There can be no assurance that these affiliation agreements will be renewed in the future on terms, including pricing, acceptable to us. The loss of a significant number of these arrangements or the loss of carriage on the most widely available programming tiers could reduce the distribution of our program services and decrease the potential audience for our programs, which could adversely affect advertising and affiliate fee revenues. In addition, further consolidation among cable and DTH satellite operators and increased vertical integration of such distributors into the cable or broadcast television businesses could adversely affect our ability to negotiate favorable terms for distribution of our program services. The Loss of Key Talent Could Disrupt Our Business and Adversely Affect Our Revenues Our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our corporate and divisional executive teams and entertainment personalities. We employ or contract with several entertainment personalities with loyal audiences and also produce motion pictures with highly regarded directors, actors and other talent. These individuals are important to achieving audience endorsement of our programs, motion pictures and other content. There can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or will retain their current appeal. If we fail to retain these individuals or if our entertainment personalities lose their current appeal, our revenues could be adversely affected. The Failure or Destruction of Satellites and Facilities that We Depend Upon to Distribute Our Programming Could Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations We use satellite systems to transmit our program services to cable television operators and other distributors worldwide. The distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. Notwithstanding 21 Table of Contents back up and redundant systems, transmissions may be disrupted as a result of local disasters that impair on ground uplinks or downlinks, or as a result of an impairment of a satellite. Currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. If a disruption occurs, we may not be able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our Obligations Related to Guarantees and Litigation Could Adversely Impact Our Financial Condition We have both recorded and potential liabilities and costs related to discontinued operations and former businesses, including, among other things, potential liabilities to landlords if Blockbuster Inc. should default on certain store leases or if Famous Players Inc. should default on certain theater leases. In connection with the sale of the DreamWorks live action film library to DW Funding in 2006, we are subject to a put option obligation at the then current fair value of DW Funding, commencing nine months prior to the fifth anniversary of the sale. We also have a corresponding call option exercisable at fair value. To the extent the current fair value at the option closing date is insufficient to repay certain indebtedness, including any unpaid interest, of DW Funding guaranteed by us, we would be required to pay the difference. In addition, we are involved in pending and threatened litigation from time to time. We cannot assure you that our reserves are sufficient to cover these liabilities in their entirety or any one of these liabilities when it becomes due or at what point any of these or new liabilities may affect us. Therefore, there can be no assurance that these liabilities will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Risks Related to our Industry Changes in Advertising Markets Could Cause Our Revenues and Operating Results to Decline Significantly in Any Given Period or in Specific Markets We derive substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on a variety of platforms. A decline in advertising expenditures could significantly adversely affect our revenues and operating results in any given period. Declines can be caused by the economic prospects of specific advertisers or industries, or the economy in general, including the possibility of a recession. Prospective advertisers could alter their spending priorities based on these or other factors. Economic uncertainty can also be caused by disasters, acts of terrorism, political uncertainty or hostilities and could lead to a reduction in advertising expenditures. In addition, advertising revenues may be affected by increasing competition for the leisure time of audiences, including shifts in spending toward online outlets and away from more traditional media, or toward new ways of purchasing advertising, such as through advertising exchanges. For example, we and other cable network owners may provide advertising inventory on our networks to cable television operators, DTH satellite operators and other intermediaries who resell that inventory in competition with us. These types of sales are becoming more common and intermediaries are bundling this inventory with inventory in other media and aggregating it with detailed data regarding viewers, which could be more attractive to advertisers than our offerings. In addition, many of these intermediaries are much larger companies than we are and may be able to use that scale to create volume and pricing advantages. Advertising expenditures by companies in certain sectors of the economy, including childrens toys, electronics, video games and other entertainment sectors, represent a sizeable portion of our advertising revenues. Any political, economic, social or technological change may result in a reduction of these sectors advertising expenditures. For example, Federal legislators and regulators could impose additional limitations on advertising to children in an effort to combat childhood obesity and unhealthy eating or for other reasons. Any reduction in advertising expenditures could have an adverse effect on our revenues and results of operations. 22 Table of Contents Our Businesses Operate in Highly Competitive Industries Participants in the cable networks, digital and motion picture industries depend primarily upon the sale of advertising, receipt of affiliate fees and revenues generated by the exhibition and distribution of motion pictures on various media. Competition for viewers, advertising and distribution is intense and comes from broadcast television, specialty cable networks, online and mobile properties, movie studios and independent film producers and distributors, local, regional and national newspapers, video gaming sites and other media that compete for audiences. In particular, online websites and search engines have seen significant advertising growth, a portion of which is derived from traditional cable network advertisers. In addition, our competitors include market participants with interests in multiple media businesses which are often vertically integrated. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including our ability to provide high quality and popular entertainment content, adapt to new technologies and distribution platforms and achieve widespread distribution. Distribution capacity may become increasingly limited as broadcasters transition to digital formats, especially if must carry regulations are extended to channels beyond the broadcasters primary channel. More television options increase competition for viewers, and competitors targeting programming to narrowly defined audiences may gain an advantage over us for television advertising and subscription revenues. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors, or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Requirements that Cable Television Operators Offer Programming on an &agrave; la Carte or Tiered Basis May Decrease the Distribution of Program Services and Affect Our Results of Operations Certain policymakers maintain that cable television operators should be required to offer programming to subscribers on a network by network, or &agrave; la carte, basis or to provide programming tiers designed specifically for certain audiences, such as family tiers. In response, certain cable television operators and other distributors have introduced tiers to their customers that may or may not include some or all of our networks. Legislation was introduced and defeated by the Senate in 2006 that would effectively require cable television operators to offer all programming on an &agrave; la carte basis, but there continues to be focus on the issue. The FCC is also reviewing whether companies that own cable networks should be required to enter into affiliation agreements with cable television operators and other distributors on an unbundled or network by network basis. The unbundling or tiering of our program services by cable television operators or other distributors, including a decision not to include some or all of our networks in a tier, or a requirement that we enter into affiliation agreements on a network by network basis, could reduce distribution of certain of our program services, perhaps significantly. It could also lead to reduced viewership on some or all of our networks and increased marketing expenses, negatively affecting our revenues from advertising and affiliate fees and our results of operations. Changes in U.S. or Foreign Communications Laws or Other Regulations May Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business The multichannel video programming and distribution industries in the United States are highly regulated by U.S. federal laws and regulations issued and administered by various federal agencies, including the FCC. Our program services and online properties are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including those relating to issues such as content regulation, user privacy and data protection and consumer protection, among others. For example, various laws and regulations are intended to protect the interests of children, including limits on the amount and content of commercial material that may be shown, restrictions on childrens advertising and measures designed to protect the privacy of minors. In addition, the U.S. Congress and the FCC currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could, directly or indirectly, affect the operations and ownership of our U.S. media properties. For example, some policymakers support the extension of indecency rules applicable to over the air broadcasters to cover cable and satellite programming. Other domestic and international regulators, including OFCOM in the United Kingdom, support additional limitations on advertising to children. Copyright and piracy issues may also become the subject of regulatory action in 23 Table of Contents addition to the judicial action we are currently seeing. Our business could be affected, potentially materially, by any such new laws, regulations and policies. We could incur substantial costs to comply with new laws and regulations or substantial penalties or other liabilities if we fail to comply. We could also be required to change or limit certain of our business practices. Similarly, changes in regulations imposed by governments in other jurisdictions in which we, or entities in which we have an interest, operate could adversely affect our business, results of operations and ability to expand these operations beyond their current scope. We Could Be Adversely Affected by Strikes and Other Union Activity We and our suppliers engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. In the fourth quarter of 2007, the members of the Writers Guild of America went on strike, and a new agreement was not approved until February 2008. The Directors Guild of America and Screen Actors Guild collective bargaining agreements expire in 2008, and while an agreement has been reached with the Directors Guild, negotiations with the Screen Actors Guild have not yet commenced. Any extended work stoppage could affect our ability to produce new motion pictures and programs, in which case we would air repeat, acquired reality or other content that does not require union labor. Such a labor dispute may disrupt our operations and reduce our revenues, and we may not be able to negotiate favorable terms for a renewal, which could increase our costs. Political and Economic Risks Associated with Our Businesses Could Harm Our Financial Condition Our businesses operate and have customers worldwide, and we are focused on expanding our international operations in key markets, some of which are emerging markets. Inherent risks of doing business in international markets include, among other risks, changes in the economic environment, export restrictions, currency exchange controls and or fluctuations, tariffs and other trade barriers and longer payment cycles. We may incur substantial expense as a result of the imposition of new restrictions or changes in the existing economic environment in the regions where we do business. Acts of terrorism or other hostilities, or other future financial, political, economic or other uncertainties, could lead to a reduction in advertising and other revenue, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. Risks Related to our Separation from CBS Corporation Our Business and Other Businesses Which Are Controlled By Sumner Redstone, Including CBS Corporation, Are and Will Continue to Be Attributable to Each Other for Certain Regulatory Purposes So long as we and CBS Corporation are under common control, each companys businesses, as well as the businesses of any other commonly controlled company, such as National Amusements, Inc. (NAI), NAIRI, Inc. and Midway Games, Inc., which is also controlled by Mr. Redstone, may be attributable to the other companies for purposes of U.S. and non U.S. antitrust rules and regulations, certain rules and regulations of the FCC, and certain rules regarding political campaign contributions in the United States, among others. The businesses of each company may continue to be attributable to the other companies for FCC purposes even after the companies cease to be commonly controlled, if the companies share common officers, directors, or attributable stockholders. As a result, the businesses and conduct of any of these other companies may have the effect of limiting the activities or strategic business alternatives available to us. The Separation Agreement Between CBS Corporation and Us Prohibits Us from Engaging in Certain Types of Businesses Under the terms of the Separation Agreement, we generally agreed that we will not own or acquire certain interests in specified types of media companies if such ownership would cause CBS Corporation to be in violation of U.S. federal laws limiting the ownership of broadcast licenses or if it would limit CBS Corporations ability under these laws to acquire television or radio stations or television networks. Additionally, we may not make acquisitions, enter into agreements or accept or agree to any condition that purports to bind CBS 24 Table of Contents Corporation or subjects CBS Corporation to restrictions it is not otherwise subject to by legal order without CBS Corporations consent. We and CBS Corporation have agreed that prior to the earliest of (1) the fourth anniversary of the separation (December 31, 2009), (2) the date on which none of Mr. Redstone, NAI, NAIRI or any of their successors, assigns or transferees are deemed to have interests in both CBS Corporation and Viacom that are attributable under applicable U.S. federal laws and (3) the date on which the other company ceases to own the video programming vendors that it owns as of the separation, neither of us will own or acquire an interest in a cable television operator if such ownership would subject the other company to U.S. federal laws regulating contractual relationships between video programming vendors and video programming distributors that the other company is not then subject to. These restrictions could limit the strategic business alternatives available to us. We Rely on CBS Corporations Performance under Various Agreements In connection with the separation, we entered into various agreements, including the Separation Agreement, Tax Matters Agreement, and certain related party arrangements pursuant to which we provide services and products to CBS Corporation after the separation. The Separation Agreement sets forth the distribution of assets, liabilities, rights and obligations between us and CBS Corporation pursuant to the separation, and includes indemnification obligations for such liabilities and obligations. In addition, pursuant to the Tax Matters Agreement, certain income tax liabilities and related responsibilities are allocated between, and indemnification obligations have been assumed by, each of us and CBS Corporation. Each company will rely on the other company to satisfy its performance and payment obligations under these agreements. Certain of the liabilities to be assumed or indemnified by us or CBS Corporation under these agreements are legal or contractual liabilities of the other company. If CBS Corporation were to breach or be unable to satisfy its material obligations under these agreements, including a failure to satisfy its indemnification obligations, we could suffer operational difficulties or significant losses. Our Historical Financial Information May Not Be Indicative of Our Results as a Separate Company The historical financial information presented in this Form 10 K relating to 2005 prior to our separation from CBS Corporation is presented on a carve out basis and may not necessarily reflect what our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows would have been had we been operating as a stand alone entity during the periods presented or what our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows will be in the future. As a result, historical financial information should not be relied upon as being indicative of our future results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Risks Related to our Control Structure NAI, Through Its Voting Control of Viacom, is in a Position to Control Actions that Require Stockholder Approval and May Have Interests that are Different than Yours NAI, through its beneficial ownership of our Class A common stock, has voting control of Viacom. Sumner M. Redstone, the controlling stockholder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of NAI, serves as our Executive Chairman and Founder, and Shari Redstone, the President and a director of NAI, serves as the non executive Vice Chair of our Board of Directors. In addition, Philippe Dauman, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and George Abrams are directors of both NAI and Viacom. NAI is in a position to control the outcome of corporate actions that require stockholder approval, including the election of directors and transactions involving a change of control. The interests of NAI may not be the same as yours and you will be unable to affect the outcome of our corporate actions for so long as NAI retains voting control. Certain Members of Management, Directors and Stockholders May Face Actual or Potential Conflicts of Interest Certain members of our management team and directors own both our common stock and CBS Corporation common stock, and both Viacom and CBS Corporation are controlled by NAI. Mr. Redstone, the controlling 25 Table of Contents stockholder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of NAI, serves as our Executive Chairman and Founder and the Executive Chairman and Founder of CBS Corporation. Ms. Redstone, the President and a director of NAI, serves as non executive Vice Chair of the Board of Directors of both Viacom and CBS Corporation. Ms. Redstone also serves as Chair of the Board of Directors of Midway Games, which is also controlled by NAI. Mr. Dauman, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and Mr. Abrams are directors of both NAI and Viacom, and Frederic Salerno is a director of both Viacom and CBS Corporation. The NAI ownership structure and the common directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when the management, directors and controlling stockholder of the commonly controlled entities face decisions that could have different implications for each of us. For example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between Viacom and CBS Corporation regarding the terms of the agreements governing the separation and the relationship between Viacom and CBS Corporation thereafter. Potential conflicts of interest, or the appearance thereof, could also arise when we and CBS Corporation enter into any commercial arrangements with each other in the future, despite review by our directors not affiliated with CBS Corporation. Mr. Redstone, Ms. Redstone and Mr. Salerno may also face conflicts of interest with regard to the allocation of time between us and CBS Corporation. Our certificate of incorporation and the CBS Corporation certificate of incorporation both contain provisions related to corporate opportunities that may be of interest to us and to CBS Corporation. Our certificate of incorporation provides that in the event that a director, officer or controlling stockholder of ours who is also a director, officer or controlling stockholder of CBS Corporation acquires knowledge of a potential corporate opportunity for both Viacom and CBS Corporation, such director, officer or controlling stockholder may present such opportunity to us or CBS Corporation or both, as such director, officer or controlling stockholder deems appropriate in his or her sole discretion, and that by doing so such person will have satisfied his or her fiduciary duties to us and our stockholders. In addition, our certificate of incorporation provides that we renounce any interest in any such opportunity presented to CBS Corporation and, similarly, that CBS Corporation renounce any interest in any such opportunity presented to us. These provisions create the possibility that a corporate opportunity of one company may be used for the benefit of the other company. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 2. Properties. Our world headquarters is located at 1515 Broadway, New York, New York, where we rent approximately 1.4 million square feet for executive offices and certain of our operating divisions. The lease for the majority of the space runs to 2010, with four renewal options based on market rates at the time of renewal for five years each thereafter. We have also entered into long term lease agreements for approximately 278,000 square feet of office space at 1540 Broadway, New York, New York and approximately 400,000 square feet of office space at 345 Hudson Street, New York, New York and expect to commence occupancy of each of such locations in mid 2008. We also occupy the following major facilities for certain of MTV Networks businesses: (a) approximately 310,000 square feet of leased office space at 1633 Broadway, New York, New York, through 2010, and (b) approximately 225,000 square feet of office space at three facilities on 26th Street in Santa Monica, California, under leases which expire between 2011 and 2016. BETs headquarters at One BET Plaza in Washington, D.C. contains approximately 228,000 square feet of office and studio space, the majority of which is leased through 2013 and the balance of which is owned. Paramount owns the Paramount Pictures studio at 5555 Melrose Avenue, Los Angeles, California, located on approximately 62 acres. 26 Table of Contents We also own and lease office, studio and warehouse space, broadcast, antenna and satellite transmission facilities throughout the United States and several other countries around the world for our businesses. We consider our properties adequate for our present needs. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Litigation is inherently uncertain and always difficult to predict. However, based on our understanding and evaluation of the relevant facts and circumstances, we believe that the legal matters described below and other litigation to which we are a party are not likely, in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Pending Litigation In March 2007, we filed a complaint in the Federal Court for the Southern District of New York against Google Inc. (Google) and its wholly owned subsidiary YouTube, alleging that Google and YouTube violated and continue to violate our copyrights. We are seeking both damages and injunctive relief, and the lawsuit is currently in discovery. Former Viacom, NAI, Blockbuster and we, and certain of their and our respective present and former officers and directors, are currently defendants in an ERISA action in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas relating to the 2004 split off of Blockbuster from Former Viacom pursuant to an exchange offer. A consolidated securities action in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas and a state law action in the Court of Chancery of Delaware arising from the same facts were dismissed in September 2007 and February 2008, respectively. The plaintiff in the latter action have filed a notice of appeal. The plaintiff in the ERISA action alleges that the defendants in that case breached fiduciary obligations to the Blockbuster Investment Plan by continuing to offer to plan participants Blockbuster stock from and after November 2003 and by offering to Plan participants the opportunity to exchange their shares of Former Viacom common stock for the shares of Blockbuster common stock. On September 24, 2007, defendants motion to dismiss the ERISA action was granted in part and denied in part, and in November, the plaintiff filed an amended complaint, which the defendants moved to dismiss in January. Blockbuster has agreed to indemnify Former Viacom and its employees, officers and directors with respect to any liabilities arising out of any material untrue statements and omissions in those portions of the 2004 Prospectus Offer to Exchange relating to the split off that were provided by Blockbuster, and we have agreed to indemnify CBS Corporation for any losses arising from these lawsuits. We believe that the plaintiffs positions in these litigations are without merit and intend to continue to vigorously defend ourselves. In September 2007, Brantley, et al. v. NBC Universal, Inc., et al., was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California against us and several other program content providers on behalf of a purported nationwide class of cable and satellite subscribers. The plaintiffs also sued several major cable and satellite program distributors, alleging against all defendants violations of Sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Antitrust Act. The complaint alleges that the programmer defendants conspired to sell and or license programming on a bundled basis to the distributor defendants, who in turn offer programming to their customers in bundles, rather than on a channel by channel (or &agrave; la carte) basis. Plaintiffs seek, among other things, treble monetary damages in an unspecified amount and an injunction to compel the offering of channels to subscribers on an &agrave; la carte basis. In December 2007, all of the defendants moved to dismiss the amended complaint, and we intend to vigorously defend this lawsuit. Concluded Litigation On July 13, 2005, two identical shareholder derivative lawsuits were filed against Former Viacom relating to the compensation of Sumner Redstone, Tom Freston and Leslie Moonves, each of whom was an executive officer of Former Viacom. On November 27, 2007, the judge in the case approved a final settlement, the costs of which were immaterial and have been evenly shared with CBS Corporation. Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. Not applicable. 27 Table of Contents OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The following table sets forth the name, age and position of each person who served as a Viacom executive officer as of January 31, 2008. Name Age Position Sumner M. Redstone 84 Executive Chairman of the Board and Founder James W. Barge 52 Executive Vice President, Tax and Treasury Philippe P. Dauman 53 President and Chief Executive Officer; Director Thomas E. Dooley 51 Senior Executive Vice President, Chief Administrative Officer and Chief Financial Officer; Director Carl D. Folta 50 Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications Michael D. Fricklas 47 Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary DeDe Lea 43 Executive Vice President, Government Relations Jacques Tortoroli 50 Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer Denise White 53 Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Administration Information about each person who serves as an executive officer of our company is set forth below. Sumner M. Redstone Mr. Redstone is our Founder and has served as the Executive Chairman of our Board of Directors since January 1, 2006. He also serves as Executive Chairman of the Board of CBS Corporation. He was Chief Executive Officer of Former Viacom from 1996 to 2005 and Chairman of the Board of Former Viacom since 1986. He has been Chairman of the Board of National Amusements, Inc., our controlling stockholder, since 1986, its Chief Executive Officer since 1967 and also served as its President from 1967 through 1999. Mr. Redstone served as the first Chairman of the Board of the National Association of Theatre Owners and is currently a member of its Executive Committee. He has been a frequent lecturer at universities, including Harvard Law School, Boston University Law School and Brandeis University. Mr. Redstone graduated from Harvard University in 1944 and received an LL.B. from Harvard University School of Law in 1947. Upon graduation, he served as law secretary with the U.S. Court of Appeals and then as a special assistant to the U.S. Attorney General. Mr. Redstone served in the Military Intelligence Division during World War II. While a student at Harvard, he was selected to join a special intelligence group whose mission was to break Japans high level military and diplomatic codes. Mr. Redstone received, among other honors, two commendations from the Military Intelligence Division in recognition of his service, contribution and devotion to duty, and the Army Commendation Award. James W. Barge Mr. Barge joined the Company on January 22, 2008 as Executive Vice President, Tax and Treasury, and will assume the additional role of Controller on March 10, 2008, succeeding Jacques Tortoroli. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Barge served as Senior Vice President, Controller and principal accounting officer of Time Warner Inc. since mid 2002. He previously held various financial positions with Time Warner Inc. since first joining the company in 1995. Mr. Barge is a member of the Board of Directors of Scholastic Corporation. Philippe P. Dauman Mr. Dauman has been our President and Chief Executive Officer since September 5, 2006 and joined our Board of Directors as of January 1, 2006, having previously served as a director of Former Viacom since 1987. Prior to joining Viacom, he was Co Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of DND Capital Partners, L.L.C., a private equity firm specializing in media and telecommunications investments that he co founded with Mr. Dooley, from May 2000 until September 2006. Prior to that, Mr. Dauman held 28 Table of Contents several positions at Former Viacom, which he first joined in 1993, including Deputy Chairman, member of its Executive Committee and Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary. Mr. Dauman is also a director of National Amusements, Inc. and of Lafarge S.A. Thomas E. Dooley Mr. Dooley has been our Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer since September 5, 2006, our Chief Financial Officer since January 1, 2007 and joined our Board as of January 1, 2006. Prior to joining Viacom, he was Co Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of DND Capital Partners, L.L.C., a private equity firm specializing in media and telecommunications investments that he co founded with Mr. Dauman, from May 2000 until September 2006. Before that, Mr. Dooley held various corporate and divisional positions at Former Viacom, which he first joined in 1980, including Deputy Chairman, member of its Executive Committee, and Executive Vice President, Finance, Corporate Development and Communications. Mr. Dooley is a member of the Board of Directors of Sapphire Industrials Corp. Carl D. Folta Mr. Folta has been our Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications since November 2006. Prior to that, he had served as Executive Vice President, Office of the Chairman since January 1, 2006. Previously, he was Executive Vice President, Corporate Relations of Former Viacom since November 2004, served as Senior Vice President, Corporate Relations from November 1994 to November 2004, and as Vice President, Corporate Relations from April 1994 to November 1994. Mr. Folta held various communications positions at Paramount Communications Inc. from 1984 to 1994. Michael D. Fricklas Mr. Fricklas has been our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since January 1, 2006. Prior to that, he was Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Former Viacom since May 2000 and Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from October 1998 to May 2000. He first joined Former Viacom in July 1993, serving as Vice President and Deputy General Counsel and assuming the title of Senior Vice President in July 1994. DeDe Lea Ms. Lea has been our Executive Vice President, Government Relations since January 1, 2006. Previously, she was Executive Vice President, Government Relations of Former Viacom since September 2005. Prior to that, she served as Vice President of Government Affairs at Belo Corp. from 2004 to 2005 and as Vice President, Government Affairs of Former Viacom from 1997 to 2004. Jacques Tortoroli Mr. Tortoroli has been our Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer since January 1, 2006 and will remain in that position until March 10, 2008. On January 1, 2008, he also became Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of MTVN. Mr. Tortoroli previously served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Infinity Broadcasting from 2002 to 2005. From 2002 to 2004, Mr. Tortoroli was also Chief Financial Officer of Westwood One, a public company in which Infinity had an investment. Prior to that, Mr. Tortoroli was Chief Financial Officer of Scient, Inc. from 2001 to 2002 and held several financial roles at Young & Rubicam, Inc. from 1998 to 2001, including Chief Financial Officer, Senior Vice President of Finance and Controller, and Chief Financial Officer of Y&R Advertising. Previously, Mr. Tortoroli spent 12 years with PepsiCo, Inc., including financial roles in PepsiCo, Inc. and Pepsi Cola International. Denise White Ms. White has been our Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Administration since October 1, 2007. Previously, she was General Manager at Microsofts Entertainment and Devices Division, having first joined Microsoft in 1990. Prior to Microsoft, Ms. White was a human resources leader with Pan American World Airways and owned a human resources consulting firm. 29 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Viacom Inc.s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Our voting Class A common stock and non voting Class B common stock are listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbols VIA and VIA.B, respectively. Our common stock began trading on the NYSE on January 3, 2006 at an opening price of $40.00 for our Class A common stock and $41.12 for our Class B common stock. The table below shows, for the periods indicated, the high and low daily close prices per share of our Class A and Class B common stock as reported in Thomson Financial markets services. Sales Price Low High Class A common stock 2007 1st Quarter $ 38.56 $ 42.53 2nd Quarter $ 40.08 $ 44.95 3rd Quarter $ 37.12 $ 43.00 4th Quarter $ 38.26 $ 44.83 Class B common stock 2007 1st Quarter $ 38.52 $ 42.51 2nd Quarter $ 40.04 $ 44.92 3rd Quarter $ 37.05 $ 42.98 4th Quarter $ 38.23 $ 44.79 Class A common stock 2006 1st Quarter $ 37.68 $ 43.87 2nd Quarter $ 35.34 $ 40.39 3rd Quarter $ 32.42 $ 37.75 4th Quarter $ 36.91 $ 41.06 Class B common stock 2006 1st Quarter $ 37.67 $ 43.90 2nd Quarter $ 35.33 $ 40.42 3rd Quarter $ 32.42 $ 37.77 4th Quarter $ 36.93 $ 41.13 We do not currently anticipate paying dividends on our Class A common stock or Class B common stock. The declaration and payment of dividends to holders of our common stock will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend upon many factors, including our financial condition, earnings, legal requirements and other factors as our Board of Directors deems relevant. As of January 31, 2008, there were approximately 2,000 record holders of our Class A common stock and 33,000 record holders of our Class B common stock. 30 Table of Contents Performance Graph The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return on our Class A common stock and our Class B common stock with the cumulative total return of the companies listed in the Standard & Poors 500 Stock Index and a peer group of companies comprised of Time Warner Inc., The Walt Disney Company, News Corporation, The E.W. Scripps Company, Discovery Holding Company and CBS Corporation. The performance graph assumes $100 invested on January 1, 2006 in each of our Class A common stock, Class B common stock, the S&P 500 Index and the stock of the peer group companies identified below, including reinvestment of dividends, for each calendar quarter through the calendar year ended December 31, 2007. Total Cumulative Stockholder Return for the Four Quarter Periods Ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 1/1/2006 3/31/2006 6/30/2006 9/30/2006 12/31/2006 3/31/2007 6/30/2007 9/30/2007 12/31/2007 Class A Common 100.00 96.90 89.88 93.25 102.53 102.65 104.00 97.38 109.95 Class B Common 100.00 94.29 87.10 90.35 99.71 99.90 101.17 94.70 106.73 S&P 500 100.00 103.73 101.76 107.01 113.62 113.82 120.43 122.31 117.63 Peer Group 100.00 99.26 103.58 109.08 119.55 117.69 122.49 121.44 114.15 Share Repurchases From January 2006 until June 22, 2007, we repurchased shares of our Class B common stock under a $3.0 billion stock repurchase program. In connection with the program, we entered into an agreement with National Amusements Inc. (NAI) and NAIRI (the NAIRI Agreement) pursuant to which we agreed to buy from NAI and NAIRI a number of shares of our Class B common stock each month such that the ownership percentage of our Class A common stock and Class B common stock (considered as a single class) held by NAI and or NAIRI would not increase as a result of our purchase of shares under the program. On May 30, 2007, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved a new stock repurchase program under which we are authorized to acquire up to an additional $4.0 billion of Viacom Class A and Class B common stock. The independent members of the Board of Directors also approved NAI and NAIRIs continued participation in the new program on substantially the same terms as those on which it participated in the previous program and the NAIRI Agreement was amended accordingly. We commenced repurchases under the $4.0 billion stock repurchase program on June 22, 2007. 31 Table of Contents The following table provides information about our purchases of equity securities under our $4.0 billion stock repurchase program and the NAIRI Agreement during the quarter ended December 31, 2007: Number ofSharesRepurchased Average PricePaid per Share RemainingAvailabilityUnder Program (thousands) (dollars) (millions) As of September 30, 2007 22,772.9 $ 40.00 $ 3,088.3 Month ended October 31, 2007: Open market 3,899.0 39.88 2,932.8 NAIRI 503.5 39.66 2,912.9 Month ended November 30, 2007: Open market 4,470.4 41.00 2,729.6 NAIRI 577.3 40.89 2,706.0 Month ended December 31, 2007: Open market 4,248.8 43.50 2,521.2 NAIRI 540.6 43.22 2,497.8 Total as of December 31, 2007 37,012.5 $ 40.59 $ 2,497.8 Equity Compensation Plan Information Information required by this item is contained in the Proxy Statement for our 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the heading Equity Compensation Plan Information, which information is incorporated herein by reference. Item 6. Selected Financial Data. The selected Consolidated Statement of Earnings data for the three years ended December 31, 2007 and the Consolidated Balance Sheet data at December 31, 2007 and 2006 should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements and related Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition and other financial information presented elsewhere in this annual report. The selected Consolidated Statement of Earnings data for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 and the Consolidated Balance Sheet data at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 have been derived from audited financial statements not included herein. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS DATA (in millions, except earnings per share amounts) Year Ended December 31,(1) 2007 2006 2005(2) 2004(2) 2003(2) Revenues $ 13,423.1 $ 11,361.1 $ 9,519.5 $ 8,051.1 $ 7,232.3 Operating income $ 2,935.7 $ 2,766.6 $ 2,358.7 $ 2,272.3 $ 1,992.1 Net earnings from continuing operations $ 1,630.2 $ 1,566.8 $ 1,299.6 $ 1,386.0 $ 1,141.0 Net earnings from continuing operations per common share: Basic $ 2.42 $ 2.19 $ 1.73 $ 1.84 $ 1.52 Diluted $ 2.41 $ 2.19 $ 1.73 $ 1.84 $ 1.52 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding: Basic 674.1 715.2 751.6 751.6 751.6 Diluted 675.6 716.2 751.6 751.6 751.6 32 Table of Contents CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET DATA (in millions) December 31,(1) 2007 2006 2005(2) 2004(2) 2003(2) Total assets $ 22,904.1 $ 21,796.7 $ 19,115.6 $ 18,440.8 $ 22,304.4 Long term debt $ 7,942.8 $ 7,312.7 $ 5,405.0 $ $ Total stockholders equity $ 7,111.2 $ 7,166.2 $ 7,787.9 $ 13,465.2 $ 15,815.7 (1) Discontinued operations for 2007 principally relate to the sale of Famous Music. In 2005, the Former Viacom sold Famous Players Inc., a Canadian based theater chain, and in 2004 completed the exchange offer for the split off of Blockbuster Inc. Famous Music, Famous Players and Blockbuster Inc. have been presented as discontinued operations for all periods presented. (2) The selected Consolidated Statement of Earnings data for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 and the Consolidated Balance Sheet data at December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 are presented on a carve out basis and reflect the results of operations and financial position of our businesses when they were a part of Former Viacom. The consolidated financial information as of and for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 may not necessarily reflect what our results of operations and financial position would have been had we been a separate, stand alone company. For example, the indebtedness of Former Viacom, other than capital lease obligations, was not assumed by us; therefore, debt service cost is not reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings data for these periods. The Consolidated Statement of Earnings data includes allocations of Former Viacom corporate expenses and Paramount corporate overhead including accounting, treasury, tax, legal, human resources, information systems and other services, as well as depreciation and amortization on allocated costs, to reflect the utilization of such shared services and assets by us. Management believes the methodologies used to allocate charges for the services described above are reasonable. The assets and liabilities of Former Viacom assigned to us pursuant to the terms of the separation are accounted for at the historical book values of such assets and liabilities. 33 Table of Contents Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition. Managements discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition is provided as a supplement to and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes to enhance the understanding of our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. References in this document to Viacom, Company, we, us and our mean Viacom Inc. and our consolidated subsidiaries through which our various businesses are conducted, unless the context requires otherwise. Certain amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2007 presentation. Significant components of the managements discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition section include: Page Overview. The overview section provides a summary of Viacom and our reportable business segments and the principal factors affecting our results of operations. In addition, we provide a brief discussion of our separation from the former Viacom Inc. (Former Viacom) and of our basis of presentation for our financial results, including comparability of prior period carve out financial statements and presentation of discontinued operations. 35 Consolidated Results of Operations. The consolidated results of operations section provides an analysis of our results on a consolidated basis for the three years ended December 31, 2007. 39 Segment Results of Operations. The segment results of operations section provides an analysis of our results on a reportable operating segment basis for the three years ended December 31, 2007. 45 Liquidity and Capital Resources. The liquidity and capital resources section provides a discussion of our cash flows for the three years ended December 31, 2007 and of our outstanding debt and commitments existing at December 31, 2007. 54 Market Risk. We are principally exposed to market risk related to foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The market risk section discusses how we manage exposure to these and other market risks. 60 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. The critical accounting policies section provides detail with respect to accounting policies that are considered by management to require significant judgment and use of estimates and that could have a significant impact on our financial statements. 61 Recent Pronouncements. The recent pronouncements section provides a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements yet to be adopted, including a discussion of the impact or potential impact of such standards on our financial statements when applicable. 65 Other Matters. The other matters section provides a discussion of legal matters, related party transactions and provisions of the various separation related agreements still relevant as of December 31, 2007. 66 34 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition OVERVIEW Summary We are a leading global entertainment content company. We engage audiences on television, motion picture and digital platforms through many of the worlds best known entertainment brands, including MTV&reg;, VH1&reg;, CMT&reg;, Logo&reg;, Harmonix&reg;, Nickelodeon&reg;, Noggin&reg;, Nick at Nite&reg;, AddictingGames, Neopets&reg;, COMEDY CENTRAL&reg;, Spike TV&reg;, TV Land&reg;, AtomFilms&reg;, Gametrailers, BET&reg;, Paramount Pictures&reg;, DreamWorks Pictures and Paramount Vantage. On December 31, 2005, we became a stand alone public company in connection with our separation from Former Viacom, which is now known as CBS Corporation. See The Separation from CBS Corporation section below for more information. References in this document to CBS Corporation mean CBS Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context requires otherwise. We manage our operations through two reporting segments: Media Networks, which includes MTV Networks (MTVN) and BET Networks (BETN), and Filmed Entertainment. Media Networks Through a combination of original and acquired programming and other entertainment content, the Media Networks brands are focused on providing content that appeals to key demographics attractive to advertisers across multiple distribution platforms, including cable television, satellite, mobile and digital media assets. Our leading program services reach over 520 million households worldwide, operating in more than 160 countries and territories. We have approximately 150 channels and 300 interactive digital media properties, which include online, broadband, mobile and interactive television services, and operate a robust consumer products business. MTVN is a major producer of mobile video content for major carriers and mobile virtual network operators in the United States and internationally, and MTVN and BETN content is also available for download to own through deals with third parties such as AOL, Amazon, Apple and Microsoft. We continue to invest organically and through select acquisitions and investments in digital media and other assets that are attractive to the demographics we serve. For example, in 2007, MTV Networks and Real Networks, Inc. created Rhapsody America, a venture that provides subscription based digital music services, among other services. We contributed a $230 million non interest bearing note payable and certain assets related to MTVNs URGE digital music service for a 49% stake in Rhapsody America. Internationally, we are expanding our presence while focusing our resources in the regions and on the demographics that offer the greatest growth opportunities for our brands. In India, we established a joint venture (Viacom 18) with Network18 Fincap Limited (Network18), a leading entertainment and media company in India, through the contribution of our existing MTV Networks India operations to the venture, with cash and other consideration contributed to the venture by Network18. In the Russian market, we sold our non controlling equity investment in MTV Russia. The Media Networks segment is focused on expanding and enhancing our brands through the creation of original hit programming and other content, including games, and the expansion of the experiences we offer through online and wireless platforms. We seek to increase our revenues by expanding our audiences and offering creative ways for advertisers, cable, satellite and mobile operators and other interested parties to reach these audiences. Our Media Networks segment generates revenues principally from three sources: (i) the sale of advertising time on our cable television networks and digital properties and services, (ii) the receipt of affiliate fees from cable 35 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) television operators, direct to home or DTH satellite operators, mobile networks and other distributors and (iii) ancillary revenues, which include home entertainment sales of our programming, the licensing of our content to third parties, the licensing of our brands for consumer products, including video games, and the creation and distribution of video games and other interactive products. We derive revenues from our home entertainment products and video games, such as Rock Band and Guitar Hero and our consumer products business that licenses popular characters such as those featured in SpongeBob SquarePants, The Backyardigans, Dora the Explorer, Neopets and South Park to consumer product companies. Our content is designed to target key audience demographics and the popularity of our programming creates a powerful reason for advertisers to purchase commercial time on our cable television networks and digital properties and services. The advertising industry has recently introduced commercial ratings which measure audience size for a commercial. Commercial ratings are currently measured on a C3 basis, which means the number of viewers that watch the commercial live or via playback during the three days following the live broadcast. We are exploring various alternatives for the pricing, structure and volume of our advertising spots and commercial segments to reflect this new ratings methodology, which will largely be effective beginning in 2008. Audience ratings also create demand on the part of cable television operators, direct to home or DTH satellite operators, mobile networks and other distributors to deliver our content to their customers, which allows us to obtain multi year affiliation deals that provide us with a reasonably stable source of affiliate fee revenues. We are currently negotiating renewals of several long term affiliation agreements, and are looking to build stronger and more expansive multi media partnerships with the various distributors of our content that maximize the value of these relationships for our brands. Media Networks segment revenue growth depends on the continued increase of advertising revenues and affiliate fees which we expect will be driven by the popularity of our programming and other entertainment content and, in part, by the increased availability of our content on new distribution platforms and our ability to monetize our multiplatform presence. In addition, our advertising revenues may fluctuate due to the mix and availability of programming and entertainment content, the overall strength of the advertising market and seasonal variations, being typically highest in the fourth quarter. Growth also depends on the continued demand for our properties to generate license fees, including for use by licensees in their commercial products sold at retail. We incur production costs in connection with creating original content for our networks. These costs are comprised of expenses associated with retaining creative talent including actors, writers and producers, as well as marketing and distribution costs that drive awareness and make our content available for distribution to consumers directly. We also incur costs to acquire content such as television series from production companies. Filmed Entertainment The Filmed Entertainment segment produces, finances and distributes motion pictures under the Paramount Pictures, DreamWorks Pictures, Paramount Vantage, Paramount Classics, MTV Films and Nickelodeon Movies brands. Paramounts library consists of approximately 3,500 motion pictures and a small number of television programs. In general, motion pictures produced or acquired for distribution by the Filmed Entertainment segment are exhibited theatrically in the U.S. and internationally, followed by their release on DVDs, videos on demand, pay and free cable television, broadcast television and syndicated television (the distribution windows), and, in some cases, licensing to airlines, hotels, schools and universities. During 2007, Transformers was released under the DreamWorks and Paramount labels and Shrek the Third, a DreamWorks Animation production, was distributed by Paramount. We also released There Will Be Blood and 36 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) No Country for Old Men under the Paramount Vantage label, and DreamWorks titles such as Norbit, Disturbia and Blades of Glory, which was released in association with MTV Films. Films released under the Paramount label included Beowulf and Freedom Writers, which was released in association with MTV Films. On January 31, 2006, we completed the acquisition of DreamWorks L.L.C. (DreamWorks) a leading producer of live action motion pictures and television programming. In connection with the acquisition, we acquired certain exclusive distribution rights to and home video fulfillment services for the animated feature films produced by DreamWorks Animation SKG, Inc. (DreamWorks Animation and collectively, the DWA agreements) and also acquired a live action film library (the live action library) consisting of 59 films released through September 16, 2005. In May 2006, we sold a controlling interest in DW Funding LLC (DW Funding), the entity which owns the live action library, and entered into an agreement for the exclusive worldwide distribution rights to the library for a five year period, which is renewable under certain circumstances. Separately, we also have a distribution arrangement with Marvel under which the first release will be Iron Man in 2008. In domestic markets, we perform our own marketing and distribution services. Through 2006, through our international affiliates, we generally distributed our motion pictures for theatrical release outside the United States and Canada through United International Pictures (UIP), a company that we and an affiliate of Universal Studios, Inc. (Universal) own jointly. In January 2007, Paramount and Universal began theatrical self distribution in 15 key countries that were separated from UIPs distribution business, with each party taking over the UIP operating entity in designated countries. Paramount and Universal each have the option to continue a transitional distribution arrangement with the other party in the respective countries for up to two years. Effective January 1, 2008, both Paramount and Universal exited UIP Japan, and Paramount has set up its own distribution operation in Japan. The UIP joint venture continues to operate in certain other territories. These self distribution activities represent a significant expansion of Paramounts international presence, and we intend to continue to expand internationally through increased direct distribution and acquisition of local content. The Filmed Entertainment segment is also focused on continuing to improve our market position and profitability through the continued development of franchise and branded films, and the diversification of revenue streams, such as making library product available online. We intend to grow Filmed Entertainment segment revenues by continuing to capitalize on our Paramount, DreamWorks, and Paramount Vantage labels and on our various media networks brands. Developing synergies across our brands permits us to leverage the core MTVN and BETN audiences. Our Filmed Entertainment segment generates revenues principally from: (i) the theatrical release of motion pictures in domestic and international markets, (ii) home entertainment, which includes sales of DVDs and other products relating to the motion pictures as well as other programming and (iii) license fees paid worldwide by third parties for exhibition rights on various media. Ancillary revenues are principally derived from studio income, consumer products licensing and distribution of our content through new online and mobile platforms. Our Filmed Entertainment segment results of operations substantially depend on the number and quality of films produced, their distribution and marketing success and public response, as well as our ability to obtain creative talent and scripts for motion pictures. Revenues from motion picture theatrical releases tend to be cyclical with increases during the summer months, around holidays and in the fourth quarter. The theatrical success of a motion picture is also a significant factor in determining the revenues it is likely to generate in home entertainment product sales and licensing fees during the various other distribution windows. We incur marketing costs before and throughout the theatrical release of a film and, to a lesser extent, other exhibition windows. Such costs are incurred to generate public interest in our films and are expensed as incurred; therefore, we typically incur losses with respect to a particular film prior to and during the films theatrical 37 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) exhibition. In addition, for films we distribute on behalf of DreamWorks Animation or similar distribution arrangements, we expense print and advertising costs as incurred and typically recover such costs following the release. Therefore, the results of the Filmed Entertainment segment can be volatile as films work their way through the various distribution windows, generally incurring losses in the pre release and theatrical windows before moving to profitability in subsequent distribution windows such as home video and television. Production costs are capitalized as incurred and amortized over the flow of ultimate revenues. We have entered into film financing arrangements under which third parties participate in the financing of the production costs of a film in exchange for a partial copyright interest. We believe such arrangements may improve our investment returns and reduce our economic risk on a particular film. The Separation from CBS Corporation On December 31, 2005, we became a stand alone public company in connection with our separation from CBS Corporation. In connection with the separation, each share of Former Viacom Class A common stock was converted into the right to receive 0.5 of a share of Viacom Class A common stock and 0.5 of a share of CBS Corporation Class A common stock. Similarly, each share of Former Viacom Class B common stock was converted into the right to receive 0.5 of a share of Viacom Class B common stock and 0.5 of a share of CBS Corporation Class B common stock. Holders of Viacom Class A and Class B common stock received cash in lieu of fractional shares. In connection with the separation, we and CBS Corporation entered into the Separation Agreement as well as certain other agreements to govern the terms of the separation and certain of the ongoing relationships between CBS Corporation and us after the separation. These agreements include a Transition Services Agreement and a Tax Matters Agreement. These related party arrangements are more fully described below and in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. The Separation Agreement provided that we were responsible for the first $195.0 million in costs directly related to the separation with amounts incurred in excess of $195.0 million being split equally between us and CBS Corporation. Included as a component of Selling, general and administrative expenses in our Consolidated Statement of Earnings is $163.5 million of transaction costs for the year ended December 31, 2005. Such amounts principally included severance amounts, expenditures on information systems and investment banking and other professional fees. Special Dividend to Former Viacom In accordance with the terms of the Separation Agreement, in December 2005 we paid a preliminary special dividend to Former Viacom of $5.40 billion which was subject to adjustments for, among other items, actual Former Viacom debt as of the date of the separation and actual CBS Corporation cash flow for 2005, compared to estimates used to calculate the preliminary special dividend. In 2006 and 2007 we made further payments of $206.1 million and $170.0 million, respectively, to CBS Corporation in final resolution of the adjustments. Basis of Presentation The consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 reflect our actual results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005 are presented on a carve out basis and reflect the results of operations, financial position and cash flows of our businesses when they were a part of Former Viacom. The consolidated financial results for 2005 may not necessarily reflect what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows would have been had we been a separate, stand alone company during the period. For example, the indebtedness of Former Viacom, other than capital lease obligations, was not assumed by us; therefore, debt service cost is not reflected in our Consolidated Statement of Earnings for the period ended December 31, 2005. 38 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) The Consolidated Statement of Earnings for the year ended December 31, 2005 includes allocations of Former Viacom corporate expenses and Paramount corporate overhead including accounting, treasury, tax, legal, human resources, information systems and other services, as well as depreciation and amortization on allocated costs, to reflect our utilization of such shared services and assets. Total corporate costs allocated to us, excluding separation costs described above, were $162.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 and were primarily included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Management believes the methodologies used to allocate charges for the services described above are reasonable. The assets and liabilities of Former Viacom assigned to us pursuant to the terms of the Separation Agreement are accounted for at the historical book values of such assets and liabilities. As noted previously, the indebtedness of Former Viacom, other than certain capital lease obligations, was not transferred to us. Prior to the separation, Former Viacom centrally managed the cash flows generated from our various businesses. Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations for 2007 principally relate to the sale of Famous Music. Famous Music and Famous Players, a Canadian based theater chain sold in 2005, have been reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Also included in discontinued operations is the release of tax reserves resulting from audit settlements related to discontinued businesses, including Blockbuster Inc., which was split off from Former Viacom in 2004. CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our summary consolidated results of operations are presented below for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. The year ended December 31, 2005 is presented on a carve out basis. Year Ended December 31, Better/(Worse) (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2007 v.2006 2006 v.2005 Revenues $ 13,423.1 $ 11,361.1 $ 9,519.5 18 % 19 % Expenses: Operating 7,430.7 5,963.2 4,669.5 (25 ) (28 ) Selling, general and administrative 2,664.1 2,266.1 2,235.2 (18 ) (1 ) Depreciation and amortization 392.6 365.2 256.1 (8 ) (43 ) Total expenses 10,487.4 8,594.5 7,160.8 (22 ) (20 ) Operating income 2,935.7 2,766.6 2,358.7 6 17 Interest expense, net (464.1 ) (442.2 ) (18.1 ) (5 ) NM Gain on sale of equity investment 151.0 NM Other items, net (43.4 ) (14.0 ) (28.5 ) NM 51 Earnings from continuing operations 2,579.2 2,310.4 2,312.1 12 NM Provision for income taxes (929.0 ) (736.9 ) (1,018.1 ) (26 ) 28 Equity in earnings of affiliated companies, net of tax 0.2 7.3 9.4 (97 ) (22 ) Minority interest, net of tax (20.2 ) (14.0 ) (3.8 ) (44 ) NM Net earnings from continuing operations 1,630.2 1,566.8 1,299.6 4 21 Discontinued operations, net of tax 207.9 25.3 (42.7 ) NM NM Net earnings $ 1,838.1 $ 1,592.1 $ 1,256.9 15 % 27 % NM not meaningful 39 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Revenues Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased $2.06 billion, or 18%, to $13.42 billion. Media Networks segment revenues increased $860.5 million, or 12%, to $8.10 billion. Net acquisitions (defined as acquisitions net of dispositions) in our Media Networks segment contributed net incremental revenues of $91.5 million. A detailed description of the 2006 and 2007 transactions included in net acquisitions is contained in the Media Networks segment section. Filmed Entertainment segment revenues increased $1.20 billion, or 28%, to $5.48 billion, including $100.5 million in incremental revenues for the month of January 2007 from the acquisition of DreamWorks, which closed on January 31, 2006. Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006 increased $1.84 billion, or 19%, to $11.36 billion compared to 2005. Media Networks segment revenues increased $483.1 million, or 7%, to $7.24 billion. Acquisitions completed by the Media Networks segment in 2006 contributed $125.3 million to revenues. Filmed Entertainment segment revenues increased $1.37 billion, or 47%, to $4.27 billion compared to 2005. The acquisition of DreamWorks and related distribution activities for DreamWorks Animation and the live action library contributed $1.36 billion to 2006 revenues, accounting for the significant increase in revenues as compared to 2005. Additional factors contributing to revenue growth are discussed in greater detail within the section Segment Results of Operations. The following tables present our revenues by component in both total dollar values and as a percentage of total revenues: Year Ended December 31, Better/(Worse) Revenues by Component (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2007 v.2006 2006 v.2005 Advertising $ 4,598.1 $ 4,272.1 $ 3,997.5 8 % 7 % Feature film 5,205.6 4,052.1 2,873.4 28 41 Affiliate fees 2,339.2 2,049.9 1,839.8 14 11 Ancillary 1,280.2 987.0 808.8 30 22 Total revenues by component $ 13,423.1 $ 11,361.1 $ 9,519.5 18 % 19 % Percentage of Revenues by Component Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Advertising 34 % 38 % 42 % Feature film 39 36 30 Affiliate fees 17 18 19 Ancillary 10 8 9 100 % 100 % 100 % We generated 27% of our total consolidated revenues from international markets in 2007 as compared to 24% and 22% in 2006 and 2005, respectively. International net acquisitions by the Media Networks segment contributed $5.0 million and $77.4 million of incremental revenue during 2007 and 2006, respectively, principally in Europe. Our principal international businesses are in Europe, of which the United Kingdom and Germany accounted for approximately 49%, 54%, and 64% of total European revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 40 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Year Ended December 31, Percent of Total Revenues by Geographic Area (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 United States $ 9,743.2 $ 8,641.3 $ 7,415.6 73 % 76 % 78 % Europe 2,319.4 1,700.3 1,243.7 17 15 13 All other 1,360.5 1,019.5 860.2 10 9 9 Total revenues by geographic area $ 13,423.1 $ 11,361.1 $ 9,519.5 100 % 100 % 100 % Expenses and Operating Income Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased $1.47 billion, or 25%, to $7.43 billion. For the year ended December 31, 2006, operating expenses increased $1.29 billion, or 28%, compared to 2005. Production and programming expenditures increased 17%, or $675.6 million, for the year ended December 31, 2007, to $4.57 billion principally driven by increased film amortization in our Filmed Entertainment segment. The increase in feature film amortization was primarily attributable to the release of Shrek the Third and Transformers and the number and timing of other theatrical releases. Programming costs, the largest operating expense of our Media Networks segment, also increased, primarily as a result of continued investment in original and acquired programming. Production and programming expenditures increased 23%, or $735.7 million, for the year ended December 31, 2006, to $3.90 billion principally driven by increased film amortization in our Filmed Entertainment segment and an increase in total program amortization in our Media Networks segment. The increase in film amortization is due to the amount, timing and mix of film releases, which was driven in part by the acquisition of DreamWorks partially offset by the 2005 charge of $31.6 million for abandonment of certain projects in development. Distribution expenses increased $827.1 million, or 45%, for the year ended December 31, 2007, to $2.66 billion, primarily due to higher print and advertising expenditures in our Filmed Entertainment segment reflecting the increased number of theatrical and home entertainment releases during the year, including Shrek the Third and Transformers, and timing of those releases. In addition, a full year of operating activity from DreamWorks and the related distribution activities for DreamWorks Animation and DW Funding added to distribution expenses for the period. For films we distribute on behalf of DreamWorks Animation and DW Funding, we expense print and advertising costs as incurred and typically recover such costs following the theatrical release. Increased distribution expenses in our Media Networks segment reflect costs associated with the release of Rock Band and increased home entertainment distribution costs. Distribution expenses increased $539.6 million, or 42%, for the year ended December 31, 2006, to $1.83 billion, reflecting higher print and advertising expenditures in our Filmed Entertainment segment as a result of the number and timing of our theatrical releases and the commencement of distribution activities for DreamWorks Animation and live action film library productions. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses were up 18%, or $398.0 million, for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared with the year ended December 31, 2006, primarily due to higher employee compensation expense, including cash and equity based incentive compensation, the full year impact of net acquisitions, the impact of foreign exchange, increased legal fees and bad debt expenses, and costs associated with new business 41 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) initiatives. Incremental restructuring charges of $62.8 million related to restructuring actions at MTVN were substantially offset by the impact of the $73.3 million net compensation charge taken in 2006 in connection with executive management changes. Selling, general and administrative expenses were up 1%, or $30.9 million, for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended December 31, 2005. This increase was due to incremental equity based compensation expense of $52.0 million, as a result of the adoption of a new accounting standard on equity compensation on a modified prospective basis and net charges associated with executive management changes of $73.3 million, including $11.5 million of equity based compensation related to the resignation of the former President and Chief Executive Officer and former Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, partially offset by an amendment to the employment agreement with our Executive Chairman and Founder. Additionally, selling, general and administrative expenses increased in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to the consolidation of entities previously accounted for as equity investments. These increases were partially offset by nonrecurring 2005 separation related charges of $163.5 million and severance expenses of $70.5 million, incurred principally during the fourth quarter of 2005. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense increased $27.4 million, or 8%, for the year ended December 31, 2007 principally as a result of an increase in depreciation on current year fixed asset additions. Additionally, we experienced an increase in intangible asset amortization expense resulting from a full year of amortization on 2006 acquisitions, particularly DreamWorks by the Filmed Entertainment segment. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $109.1 million, or 43%, for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared with 2005, principally as the result of increased intangible asset amortization expense resulting from 2006 acquisitions in both segments including DreamWorks intangible asset amortization of $43.5 million, 2006 digital media acquisitions of $16.3 million and higher full year amortization related to 2005 acquisitions. Each component of expense is discussed in greater detail within the section Segment Results of Operations. Operating Income Operating income increased 6%, or $169.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 to $2.94 billion. Media Networks operating income increased 5% or $143.6 million with the 12% increase in revenues partially offset by a 17% growth in expenses, principally compensation related costs, including restructuring charges of $77.5 million in 2007 versus $14.7 million in 2006, programming costs and costs associated with Rock Band. Filmed Entertainment operating income decreased by $28.4 million, or 22%, principally due to higher distribution related costs, principally print and advertising, and higher feature film amortization related to a greater number of film releases during the year, as well as costs associated with new business initiatives. The increase in Filmed Entertainment expenses was partially offset by increased revenues on certain 2007 releases, in particular Transformers and Shrek the Third, and revenues from prior year releases. Corporate expenses declined $50.2 million largely due to the net compensation charge of $73.3 million recorded in 2006, partially offset by increased equity compensation and legal expenses. Operating income increased 17%, or $407.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 to $2.77 billion compared with 2005. The Media Networks segment operating income increased 11% or $294.2 million, principally as a result of increased revenues and lower variable compensation and severance expenses. Filmed Entertainment segment operating income increased $69.5 million principally due to increased profitability of the 2006 film slate compared to the 2005 slate, additional third party distribution arrangements, lower development costs as well as $31.6 million in charges related to the abandonment of certain projects in development taken in 2005. Corporate expenses declined $38.6 million as increases related to executive management changes, as previously discussed, and general overhead increases were more than offset by the reduction in separation costs. 42 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net includes costs related to our senior notes and debentures, credit facilities, note payable, commercial paper, capital lease obligations and amounts associated with our derivative financial instruments. For 2007, interest expense, net increased $21.9 million from the prior year due to an increase in interest rates reflecting the impact of the fixed rate debt issuances during 2006 and 2007, which more than offset the decrease in average debt outstanding. See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section for additional information on our outstanding indebtedness. The decrease in average debt outstanding resulted principally from the use of cash flow provided by operations and proceeds received from dispositions during 2007 of $555.2 million to repay indebtedness. For the year ended December 31, 2006, interest expense, net increased $424.1 million as compared to 2005 principally due to higher average debt outstanding and higher interest rates in 2006. The higher average debt outstanding primarily is a result of the timing related to funding the special dividend payments to CBS Corporation made in connection with the separation, the purchase of DreamWorks, the various acquisitions of our Media Networks segment and the purchase of common stock under our stock repurchase program. Gain on Sale of Equity Investment In 2007, we sold our non controlling investment in MTV Russia for $191.1 million and recognized a pre tax gain on the sale of $151.0 million. Other Items, Net Other items, net for the year ended December 31, 2007 reflected net expenses of $43.4 million principally arising from losses on securitization programs as well as a $36.0 million impairment charge related to the bankruptcy filing of Ampd Mobile, partially offset by foreign exchange gains. For 2006, other items, net reflected a loss of $14.0 million which was a $14.5 million, or 51%, improvement over 2005. This improvement was principally a result of increased transactional foreign exchange gains partially offset by increased losses on securitization programs. Provision for Income Taxes For 2007, we recorded income tax expense of $929.0 million on pretax earnings of $2.58 billion resulting in an effective tax rate of 36.0% compared to 31.9% in 2006. The increase in our effective tax rate over the year ended December 31, 2006 is principally due to $15.0 million, or 0.6 percentage points of discrete tax benefits recognized in 2007 versus $141.8 million, or 6.1 percentage points, in 2006. The discrete tax benefits in both years were principally the result of audit settlements. Excluding the impact of the discrete tax benefits, the reduction in the effective tax rate is principally due to incremental tax benefits associated with qualified production activities, a higher mix of international profits in markets where income is taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate and lower state taxes. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we recorded income tax expense of $736.9 million on pretax earnings of $2.31 billion resulting in an effective tax rate of 31.9%, inclusive of the discrete tax benefits. Our effective tax rate in 2005 was 44.0% principally reflecting the effect of non deductible separation related expenses included in the total separation costs of $163.5 million. Equity in Earnings of Affiliated Companies, Net of Tax Equity in earnings of affiliated companies, net of tax was $0.2 million and $7.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In the third quarter of 2007, we began recognizing our share of the losses from Rhapsody America. 43 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Equity in earnings of affiliated companies, net of tax declined $2.1 million in 2006 as compared to December 31, 2005 as increased equity earnings generally attributable to our Media Network affiliates was offset principally by the impact of consolidating Nick UK which was previously accounted for on the equity basis of accounting prior to the acquisition of an incremental ownership interest in June 2006 which allows us to control the entity. Minority Interest, Net of Tax Minority interest expense, net of tax, which represents ownership held by third parties of certain consolidated entities, was $20.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to $14.0 million and $3.8 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increase in expense is primarily attributable to the consolidation of Nick UK and MTV Japan, as well as normal operating increases. Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax Earnings from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2007 principally reflect a gain recorded in connection with the sale of Famous Music. Famous Music and Famous Players, a Canadian based theater chain disposed of in 2005, have been reported as discontinued operations in the consolidated financial statements for all periods presented. For the year ended December 31, 2006, discontinued operations include the release of tax reserves resulting from audit settlements related to discontinued businesses, including Blockbuster Inc. which was split off from Former Viacom in 2004. 44 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) SEGMENT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table presents segment revenues, expenses and operating income for the three years ended December 31, 2007. Operating income is used as the measurement of segment operating performance. Transactions between reportable segments are accounted for as third party arrangements for the purposes of presenting reportable segment results of operations. Typical intersegment transactions include the purchase of advertising by the Filmed Entertainment segment on Media Networks segment properties and the purchase of the Filmed Entertainment segments feature films exhibition rights by the Media Networks segment. The elimination of such intercompany transactions from the consolidated results of operations is included within Eliminations in the table below. Certain amounts in 2005 and 2006 have been reclassified to conform to the 2007 presentation. Year Ended December 31, Better/(Worse) (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2007 v. 2006 2006 v. 2005 Revenues Media Networks $ 8,101.4 $ 7,240.9 $ 6,757.8 12 % 7 % Filmed Entertainment 5,475.6 4,273.8 2,905.2 28 47 Eliminations (153.9 ) (153.6 ) (143.5 ) NM (7 ) Total revenues $ 13,423.1 $ 11,361.1 $ 9,519.5 18 % 19 % Expenses Media Networks $ 5,053.5 $ 4,336.6 $ 4,147.7 (17 )% (5 )% Filmed Entertainment 5,372.1 4,141.9 2,842.8 (30 ) (46 ) Total segment expenses 10,425.6 8,478.5 6,990.5 (23 ) (21 ) Corporate 219.7 269.9 308.5 19 13 Eliminations (157.9 ) (153.9 ) (138.2 ) 3 11 Total expenses $ 10,487.4 $ 8,594.5 $ 7,160.8 (22 )% (20 )% Operating income Media Networks $ 3,047.9 $ 2,904.3 $ 2,610.1 5 % 11 % Filmed Entertainment 103.5 131.9 62.4 (22 ) NM Total segment operating income 3,151.4 3,036.2 2,672.5 4 14 Corporate expenses (219.7 ) (269.9 ) (308.5 ) 19 13 Eliminations 4.0 0.3 (5.3 ) NM NM Total operating income $ 2,935.7 $ 2,766.6 $ 2,358.7 6 % 17 % NM not meaningful 45 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Media Networks Worldwide revenues increased $860.5 million, or 12%, in 2007 to $8.10 billion, led by an 8% increase in advertising revenues. Affiliate fees and ancillary revenues were up 14% and 27%, respectively. Net acquisitions, as further discussed below, contributed $91.5 million to revenue growth. Year Ended December 31, Better/(Worse) Revenues by Component (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2007 v.2006 2006 v.2005 Advertising $ 4,690.3 $ 4,346.2 $ 4,069.4 8 % 7 % Affiliate fees 2,339.2 2,049.9 1,839.8 14 11 Ancillary 1,071.9 844.8 848.6 27 NM Total revenues by component $ 8,101.4 $ 7,240.9 $ 6,757.8 12 % 7 % NM not meaningful Year Ended December 31, Better/(Worse) Revenues by Geographic area (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2007 v. 2006 2006 v. 2005 Domestic $ 6,852.7 $ 6,182.5 $ 5,789.6 11 % 7 % International 1,248.7 1,058.4 968.2 18 9 Total revenues by geographic area $ 8,101.4 $ 7,240.9 $ 6,757.8 12 % 7 % During 2007, we invested $14.5 million in acquisitions, none of which had a significant impact on 2007 operating results. We made several acquisitions during 2006 that contributed to segment revenues and operating income in 2007, including Harmonix Music Systems, Inc. (Harmonix), the developer of Guitar Hero and Rock Band and other music gaming titles, in October 2006, and Atom Entertainment, Inc., which owned a portfolio of online destinations for casual games, short films and animation, in September 2006. Additional acquisitions completed during 2006 included Quizilla, LLC, Y2M: Youth Media & Marketing, Xfire, Inc. and Caballero Television. During 2006, we also acquired controlling interests in entities previously accounted for under the equity method of accounting. In November 2006, we completed the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in MTV Poland. In September 2006, we acquired the remaining 63.8% interest in MTV Japan. In August 2006, we acquired the remaining 58% interest of BET Interactive, the owner of BET.com. In June 2006, we acquired an additional 10% interest in Nick UK. Previously, Nick UK was a fifty fifty joint venture with BSkyB. The results of these entities have been consolidated since the closing date of the transactions (the international consolidations). Further, in the fourth quarter of 2006 we disposed of an international production operation. The transactions discussed above (the net acquisitions) impact the comparability of our results over the periods presented and contributed $91.5 million of net revenue growth in 2007. Therefore, the impact of net acquisitions is referenced throughout the discussion. Net acquisition impact represents amounts included in reported results for which the acquired or disposed entity was not also consolidated in the comparable period. 46 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Advertising Worldwide advertising revenues were up 8% to $4.69 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007. Net acquisitions contributed 1% percentage point of reported growth. Domestic advertising revenues increased 6% versus 2006 driven by Spike TV, VH1, MTV, COMEDY CENTRAL and digital properties. International advertising revenues increased 23% primarily due to the full year impact of the 2006 acquisitions of controlling interests in Nick UK, MTV Japan and MTV Poland. In addition, international revenues benefited from strong European performance, driven by monetization of ratings strength, and foreign currency benefits, which contributed 9 percentage points of international growth, partially offset by declines in Southeast Asia due to the licensing of certain previously owned and operated channels. Worldwide advertising revenues were up 7% to $4.35 billion in 2006, with domestic revenue up 7% and international revenue up 8% versus 2005. Domestic growth was driven by COMEDY CENTRAL, Spike TV, BET, Nickelodeon and digital media. The 7% year over year increase was a deceleration in the rate of domestic advertising revenue growth as compared to 2005 and substantially reflects a weaker audience rating performance across our domestic channels. Rating performance is a key driver in our ability to grow advertising revenues. International advertising revenues were up in Europe driven by the consolidation of Nick UK beginning in June, while acquisitions in total contributed $75.4 million to advertising revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006. Affiliate Fees Worldwide affiliate fees increased 14% to $2.34 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007. The full year impact of international consolidations contributed 2 percentage points of total reported growth. Domestic affiliate fees grew 11% principally as a result of higher rates. International affiliate fees increased 30% driven principally by the consolidation of Nick UK, MTV Japan and MTV Poland, foreign exchange benefits of 8 percentage points, new channel launches and subscriber growth in certain European markets. Worldwide affiliate fees increased 11% to $2.05 billion in 2006, with domestic fees up 9% and international fees up 24% versus 2005. Acquisitions contributed $33.4 million to 2006 revenues, primarily in Europe and Japan. Rate increases, principally at MTV and Nickelodeon as well as subscriber increases at various channels including MTV2, VH1 Pure Country, Logo and Tempo and several Nickelodeon channels including Noggin, Nick Too and Nick Games & Sports drove the year over year growth. International revenue growth was driven by channel launches in France and by subscriber growth in Latin America among other markets. Ancillary Worldwide ancillary revenues increased 27% for the year ended December 31, 2007 to $1.07 billion. Domestic ancillary revenues for the year were up 42% driven by sales of the Rock Band video game released in the fourth quarter of 2007, royalties earned on video games, including the Guitar Hero series, higher digital revenues and increased television license fees. These increases were partially offset by lower home video revenues due to a lower number of video releases. In 2006, home video revenues benefited from the release of Chappelles Show: The Lost Episodes. International ancillary revenues decreased 4% during the year principally due to the fourth quarter 2006 disposition of an international production operation partially offset by higher consumer products licensing and the contribution of the international consolidations. Foreign exchange contributed 3 percentage points of international growth. Worldwide ancillary revenues were essentially flat in 2006 at $844.8 million as compared to 2005. Increases in consumer products licensing fees, primarily for Dora the Explorer, were largely offset by lower home entertainment revenues impacted by the mix and number of home video releases, and unfavorable comparison to Chappelles Show: Season 2 released in 2005. Syndication fees also declined slightly due to lower South Park syndication fees in 2006. Domestic revenues remained flat while international revenues declined slightly. Acquisitions, principally Harmonix and Atom Entertainment, contributed $16.5 million to total ancillary revenue in 2006. 47 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Expenses and Operating Income Media Networks segment expenses consist of operating expenses, selling, general and administrative expenses and depreciation and amortization. Operating expenses are comprised of costs related to original and acquired programming, including programming amortization, expenses associated with the distribution of home entertainment products, including video games, and consumer products licensing and participation fees. Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of employee compensation, marketing, professional service fees and facility and occupancy costs. Depreciation and amortization expenses reflect depreciation on fixed assets, including transponders financed under capital leases, and amortization of finite lived intangible assets. Year Ended December 31, Better/(Worse) Expenses and Operating Income (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2007 v.2006 2006 v.2005 Expenses Operating $ 2,762.6 $ 2,457.5 $ 2,309.6 (12 )% (6 )% Selling, general and administrative 2,014.8 1,609.1 1,607.3 (25 ) NM Depreciation and amortization 276.1 270.0 230.8 (2 ) (17 ) Total expenses $ 5,053.5 $ 4,336.6 $ 4,147.7 (17 )% (5 )% Operating income $ 3,047.9 $ 2,904.3 $ 2,610.1 5 % 11 % NM not meaningful Operating Expenses For the year ended December 31, 2007, total operating expenses increased $305.1 million due primarily to an increase in distribution expenses, including costs related to Rock Band, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2007 and increased production and programming costs, principally programming amortization. The increase in programming amortization reflects both acquired programming, particularly on Spike TV and Nick at Nite, and original programming, particularly on MTV. In 2006, operating expenses increased $147.9 million compared with 2005, as production costs including programming and distribution expenses increased in line with revenue growth. Program and production costs increased 8%, driven principally by original programming for several shows including The Colbert Report, The Daily Show and Making the Band. In addition, BET began increasing its investment in original programming in 2006. Amortization of acquired programming increased across most channels in line with revenue increases, particularly COMEDY CENTRAL, Nick Digital and Nick at Nite. Increases in consumer products related costs were in line with revenue increases and reflected higher participation costs. Operating expenses increased in international markets, reflecting the impact of entity consolidations and higher program and production costs. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses For the year ended December 31, 2007, selling, general and administrative expenses increased $405.7 million to $2.01 billion primarily due to increased employee compensation costs, including incentive compensation, incremental restructuring charges of $62.8 million, the impact of foreign exchange, higher facilities costs, the full year impact of net acquisitions, increases in legal expenses and bad debt expenses and the impact of the 2006 gain resulting from the sale of distribution rights in Europe. In 2006, selling, general and administrative expenses increased $1.8 million as compared with 2005. Compensation expenses in 2006 reflect incremental stock based compensation costs of $20.1 million resulting from the adoption of a new accounting standard. Selling, general and administrative costs also increased in 2006 related to acquisitions including acquiring controlling interest in entities previously accounted for as equity investments. These increases were offset by lower severance and variable compensation expenses and $27.3 million from sales of certain distribution rights in two European markets in 2006. 48 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization increased $6.1 million and $39.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, principally due to the amortization of intangibles associated with 2006 acquisitions. The increase in 2006 was also due to increased depreciation related to additional transponders utilized by MTV Europe. Operating Income Operating income grew 5% to $3.05 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the prior year due to a 12% increase in revenues partially offset by a 17% increase in expenses, including restructuring charges of $77.5 million in 2007 versus $14.7 million in 2006. Net acquisitions contributed $11.0 million to operating income, primarily due to the acquisition of Harmonix and the consolidation of Nick UK partially offset by the disposition of an international production operation in 2006. Operating income increased 11%, or $294.2 million, as compared with 2005, to $2.90 billion in 2006, as a result of incremental revenues of $483.1 million partially offset by higher operating expenses and incremental depreciation and amortization. Net acquisitions contributed $13.6 million to operating income, principally due to the consolidation of Nick UK. Filmed Entertainment The results of operations of our Filmed Entertainment segment are subject to fluctuations due to various factors, including the publics response to our theatrical films and DVD releases, the number, timing and availability of releases and the amount and timing of print and advertising spending for films. In addition, the January 31, 2006 acquisition of DreamWorks and the commencement of distribution activities for DreamWorks Animation and live action library films impact the comparability of our results over the periods presented. Worldwide revenues increased $1.20 billion, or 28% in 2007 to $5.48 billion. The increase in 2007 is primarily due to the number and mix of releases, including the performance of Transformers and Shrek the Third, both released in 2007. The remaining increase is driven by the acquisition of DreamWorks and the related DWA agreements, contributing incremental revenues of $100.5 million in January 2007. In 2006, the DreamWorks acquisition contributed revenues of $1.36 billion, accounting for almost all of the segments revenue growth compared to 2005. Results of operations for DreamWorks have been included in the Filmed Entertainment segment beginning February 1, 2006. Year Ended December 31, Better/(Worse) Revenues by Component (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2007 v.2006 2006 v.2005 Home entertainment $ 2,493.3 $ 2,115.9 $ 1,555.5 18 % 36 % Television license fees 1,294.3 1,121.4 650.8 15 72 Theatrical 1,466.2 866.1 643.7 69 35 Ancillary 221.8 170.4 55.2 30 NM Total revenues by component $ 5,475.6 $ 4,273.8 $ 2,905.2 28 % 47 % 49 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Year Ended December 31, Better/(Worse) Revenues by Geographic area (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2007 v.2006 2006 v.2005 Domestic $ 3,044.4 $ 2,612.4 $ 1,769.5 17 % 48 % International 2,431.2 1,661.4 1,135.7 46 46 Total revenues by geographic area $ 5,475.6 $ 4,273.8 $ 2,905.2 28 % 47 % Theatrical Worldwide theatrical revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased $600.1 million, or 69%, to $1.47 billion. We released twenty six films during 2007 compared to nineteen films in 2006. Domestic revenues increased $271.3 million primarily due to the number and mix of theatrical releases, particularly the performance of Transformers released in 2007 compared to Mission: Impossible III in 2006. Distribution of DreamWorks Animations Shrek the Third and Bee Movie contributed incremental revenues of $117.7 million compared to Over the Hedge and Flushed Away distributed in 2006. International revenues increased $328.8 million due principally to our release of Transformers and distribution of Shrek the Third which contributed a combined $197.3 million of incremental revenues over 2006 releases Mission: Impossible III and Over the Hedge. Worldwide theatrical revenues increased $222.4 million in 2006 as compared with 2005, with our distribution of DreamWorks Animation films contributing $296.1 million and other theatrical revenues declining $73.7 million. Domestic revenues increased $76.7 million, of which $142.2 million was attributable to DreamWorks and DreamWorks Animation films, offset by a decline in other theatrical revenues, principally due to the performance of Mission: Impossible III released in 2006 compared to War of the Worlds in 2005. In international markets, theatrical revenues increased $145.7 million, with $153.9 million due to our distribution of DreamWorks Animation films, including Over the Hedge and Flushed Away, as well as Munich which was released in 2005. 50 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) The table below lists theatrical releases by title, by year, sorted by release date, for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. 2007 2006 First Quarter Releases Freedom Writers (Jan) Last Holiday (Jan) Norbit (Feb) Neil Young Heart of Gold (Feb) Reno 911: Miami (Feb) Failure to Launch (Mar) Black Snake Moan (Mar) Ask the Dust (Mar) Zodiac (Mar) Shes the Man (Mar) Shooter (Mar) Blades of Glory (Mar) Second Quarter Releases Disturbia (Apr) Mission: Impossible III (May) Year of the Dog (Apr) An Inconvenient Truth (May) Next (Apr) Nacho Libre (Jun) A Mighty Heart (Jun) Third Quarter Releases Transformers (Jul) Barnyard (Aug) Arctic Tale (Jul) World Trade Center (Aug) Hot Rod (Aug) Last Kiss (Sep) Stardust (Aug) jackass: number two (Sep) Into the Wild (Sep) Fourth Quarter Releases The Heartbreak Kid (Oct) Flags of Our Fathers (Oct) Things We Lost in the Fire (Oct) Babel (Oct) Beowulf (Nov) Charlottes Web (Dec) Margot at the Wedding (Nov) Dreamgirls (Dec) Kite Runner (Dec) Perfume (Dec) Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street (Dec) There Will Be Blood (Dec) No Country for Old Men (Dec) DreamWorks Animation Releases Shrek the Third (May) Over the Hedge (May) Bee Movie (Nov) Flushed Away (Nov) 51 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Home Entertainment Worldwide home entertainment revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased $377.4 million, or 18%, to $2.49 billion. Domestic home entertainment revenues increased $65.7 million to $1.47 billion due primarily to higher revenues on current year releases, including Transformers and DreamWorks Animations Shrek the Third, as well as a year over year increase in titles released, partially offset by lower revenues generated from prior year releases and catalog revenues. International home entertainment revenues increased $311.7 million to $1.02 billion, also reflecting the performance of Transformers and Shrek the Third and higher revenues from prior year releases, including Flushed Away and World Trade Center. Worldwide home entertainment revenues increased 36%, or $560.4 million, in 2006 as compared with 2005, with DreamWorks and the related DWA agreements contributing $579.7 million, offset by a slight decline in other titles. Domestic home entertainment revenues increased $441.3 million, or 46%, with DreamWorks and the related DWA agreements contributing $379.5 million. Our 2006 domestic releases and DreamWorks Animations Over the Hedge generated higher revenues than our 2005 domestic releases. International home entertainment revenues increased $119.1 million, with DreamWorks and the related DWA agreements contributing $200.2 million partially offset by a decline in other titles resulting from the timing and mix of available titles. Television License Fees Worldwide television license fees for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased $172.9 million, or 15%, to $1.29 billion. The DreamWorks acquisition contributed $30.9 million of incremental revenue in January 2007. The remaining increase is primarily attributable to an increase in international syndicated license fees and networks license fees, partially offset by a decline in pay television revenues. These fluctuations were due to the timing and mix of products available. Worldwide television license fees increased $470.6 million in 2006 as compared with 2005, with DreamWorks and the related DWA agreements contributing $469.1 million. Domestically, television license fees increased $231.0 million, with $244.4 million from DreamWorks and the related DWA agreements. International television license fees increased $239.6 million, of which $224.8 million was attributable to DreamWorks and the related DWA agreements. Ancillary Ancillary revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased $51.4 million, or 30%, to $221.8 million primarily due to higher licensing and merchandising revenues, principally related to Transformers, and higher digital revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2006, ancillary revenues increased $115.2 million to $170.4 million as compared with 2005, principally due to higher studio rental income and licensing and merchandising revenues. 52 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Expenses and Operating Income Filmed Entertainment segment expenses consist of operating expenses, selling, general and administrative expenses and depreciation and amortization. Operating expenses principally include the amortization of production costs of our released feature films, print and advertising expenses and other distribution costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses include employee compensation costs, facility and occupancy costs, professional service fees and other overhead costs. Depreciation and amortization expense includes depreciation of fixed assets and amortization of acquired intangibles, including acquired distribution rights, principally associated with the DreamWorks acquisition. Year Ended December 31, Better/(Worse) (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2007 v.2006 2006 v.2005 Expenses Operating $ 4,826.0 $ 3,659.6 $ 2,556.4 (32 )% (43 )% Selling, general & administration 447.2 399.9 266.3 (12 ) (50 ) Depreciation & amortization 98.9 82.4 20.1 (20 ) NM Total expenses 5,372.1 4,141.9 2,842.8 (30 )% (46 )% Operating income $ 103.5 $ 131.9 $ 62.4 (22 )% NM NM not meaningful Operating Expenses Yearover year operating expenses are impacted by the timing, number and mix of film releases during a particular year. For the year ended December 31, 2007, operating expenses increased $1.17 billion or 32% to $4.83 billion. The increase principally reflects higher distribution related costs of $653.8 million primarily due to print and advertising costs, and higher feature film amortization expense of $517.7 million, primarily attributable to the release of Shrek the Third and Transformers, as well as the increased number of theatrical releases during the year and timing of those releases. In 2006, operating expenses increased $1.10 billion as compared with 2005, with DreamWorks and related distribution activities contributing $1.35 billion of the increase offset by a year over year decrease in exhibition costs. Incremental film amortization expense contributed $570.1 million as compared to 2005, primarily due to DreamWorks and the related DWA agreements, as well as mix and number of other titles released in 2006. Distribution costs increased $492.5 million as compared to 2005 primarily as a result of increased print and advertising costs, driven by the number and timing of releases and DreamWorks and the related DWA agreements. In 2005, operating expenses also included a $31.6 million charge related to the abandonment of development projects started by prior management. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general & administrative expenses increased $47.3 million in 2007 primarily attributable to costs associated with new business initiatives. In 2006, selling, general & administrative costs increased $133.6 million as compared with 2005, primarily due to the integration of DreamWorks, partially offset by lower severance charges. Selling, general & administrative costs in 2005 also included severance charges of $22.6 million incurred to adjust Paramounts overhead structure upon the separation from CBS Corporation. Depreciation and Amortization Expense Depreciation and amortization increased by $16.5 million and $62.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The increase in 2007 resulted from a full year of amortization attributable to the acquisition of DreamWorks and higher depreciation of fixed assets. The increase in 2006 principally resulted from amortization attributable to the acquisition of DreamWorks. 53 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Operating Income Operating income decreased by $28.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 principally due to higher distribution related costs, principally print and advertising and higher feature film amortization related to a greater number of film releases during the year, as well as costs associated with new business initiatives. The increase in expenses in 2007 was partially offset by increased revenues on certain 2007 releases, in particular Transformers and Shrek the Third, and revenues from prior year releases. For 2006, operating income increased $69.5 million over 2005 as result of improved film performance and the mix and timing of films in theatrical, home entertainment and television markets. In addition, 2005 included a $31.6 million charge related to the abandonment of development projects started by prior management and severance costs of $22.6 million incurred to adjust Paramounts overhead structure as a result of the separation from CBS Corporation. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity Sources and Uses of Cash Our primary source of liquidity is cash provided through the operations of our businesses. These cash flows from operations, together with our access to the capital markets, provide us with adequate resources to fund our ongoing operations including investment in programming and film productions, distribution related costs, capital expenditures, investment in new projects, including digital media, share repurchases and acquisitions. Our principal uses of cash include the creation of new content, acquisitions of third party content, ongoing investments in our businesses, acquisitions of businesses, and share repurchases. We also use cash for interest and tax payments. We manage share repurchases and acquisitions with a goal of maintaining total debt levels within rating agency guidelines to maintain an investment grade credit rating. We may access external financing from time to time depending on our cash requirements, our assessments of current and anticipated market conditions and after tax cost of capital. Our access to capital markets can be impacted by factors outside our control. Additionally, our cost to borrow is affected by market conditions and short and long term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, which are based on our performance as measured by certain credit metrics such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. The table below summarizes our credit ratings as of December 31, 2007: Long term Short term Outlook Moodys Investors Service Baa3 P 3 Stable Standard & Poors BBB A 2 Stable Fitch Ratings BBB F 2 Stable We believe that our investment grade credit rating will provide us with adequate access to capital markets given our expected cash needs. Our bank facilities are subject to one principal financial covenant, interest coverage, which we met on December 31, 2007. From time to time, we enter into film financing arrangements that involve the sale of a partial copyright interest in a film to third party investors. Since the investors have the risks and rewards of ownership proportionate to their ownership in the film, we record the amounts received for the sale of copyright interest as a reduction of the cost of the film and related cash flows are reflected in net cash flow from operating activities. 54 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Cash Flows Cash and cash equivalents increased by $214.4 million and $344.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. The change in cash and cash equivalents was attributable to the following: Cash Flows Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Net cash flow from operating activities $ 1,776.2 $ 2,269.9 $ 1,635.9 Net cash flow from (used in) investing activities 248.5 (932.9 ) (165.1 ) Net cash flow used in financing activities (1,831.4 ) (1,012.8 ) (1,251.2 ) Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 21.1 20.5 (8.5 ) Increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 214.4 $ 344.7 $ 211.1 Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities of $1.78 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007 decreased $493.7 million versus 2006. The net decrease was principally due to a decrease in cash flows from receivables, primarily attributable to the $500 million increase in our securitization facilities in 2006, higher investment in original and acquired programming, and an increase of $185.9 million in cash taxes paid, including taxes on gains of disposed operations, partially offset by increased net earnings from continuing operations. The Media Networks segment consistently generates a significant percentage of our cash flow from operating activities. Advertising time is generally purchased by large media buying agencies and our affiliate fees are principally earned from cable television operators with significant capital resources. We have payment terms of generally ninety days or less and our current days sales outstanding for the Media Networks segment, calculated as accounts receivable divided by net revenues, multiplied by 360, was 56.9 days for 2007, an improvement of 2.7 days as compared to 2006. We continue our focus on lowering our days sales outstanding. The Filmed Entertainment segments operational results and ability to generate cash flow from operations substantially depend on the number of films in development and production, the level and timing of print and advertising costs and the publics response to our theatrical film and home entertainment film releases. Cash provided by operating activities of $2.27 billion for the year ended December 31, 2006 increased $634.0 million versus 2005. The increase was principally attributable to improved cash flow from operations for each business segment, including new and increased capacity under our securitization facilities of $500.0 million and reduction in cash taxes paid of $322.6 million, partially offset by higher interest payments of $413.4 million compared to 2005. Investing Activities Cash provided by investing activities was $248.5 million in 2007 compared with cash used in investing activities of $932.9 million in 2006. In 2007, we sold Famous Music for $351.7 million and our non controlling interest in MTV Russia for $191.1 million. These amounts were offset by increased investments in equity affiliates of $46.8 million and higher capital expenditures of $28.4 million. In the future, we expect cash outflows related to our current equity investments will include payments made under a $205 million funding commitment to Viacom 18 and earn out payments on our Harmonix acquisition. In general, our segments require relatively low levels of capital expenditures in relation to our net cash flow generated annually from operations which contributes to our ability to generate cash flow for future investment in our content and business operations, which we expect to be able to maintain over time. 55 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Cash used for investing activities in 2006 of $932.9 million increased $767.8 million as compared to 2005. The significant increase is principally attributable to cash utilized for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, of $1.42 billion, including DreamWorks by our Filmed Entertainment segment and several acquisitions in digital media and similar properties including Harmonix, Atom Entertainment and Xfire by our Media Networks segment. We also acquired the additional interest in Nick UK and the remaining interest not previously owned of MTV Japan. Capital expenditures also increased $15.7 million. Sources of cash from investing activities principally included the proceeds from the sale of the live action library in May 2006 of $675.3 million. Financing Activities Cash used in 2007 for financing activities was $1.83 billion, including $2.13 billion of share repurchases. During 2007, we raised fixed rate debt of $744.6 million through the issuance of Senior Notes and Debentures and borrowed $750.0 million of bank debt under our revolving credit facility. These proceeds were used to repay $1.04 billion of commercial paper. Additionally, in 2007, we paid a final amount of $170.0 million related to the special dividend to CBS Corporation. Cash used for 2006 financing activities was $1.01 billion as compared to $1.25 billion for 2005. In 2006, we received proceeds of $6.16 billion from the issuance of senior notes and debentures with various durations, $1.09 billion of commercial paper that was principally utilized to pay down revolving credit facilities entered into as a result of the special dividend of $5.40 billion paid to CBS Corporation in December 2005; acquisitions, principally of DreamWorks; and $2.35 billion of share repurchases. In 2006, we paid an additional $206.1 million to CBS Corporation related to the special dividend and accrued an additional $170.0 million which was paid in the first quarter of 2007. We also paid down $659.5 million of acquired notes and preferred interest, principally acquired as part of the DreamWorks acquisition. Commitments and Contingencies In the normal course of our business, we provide and receive indemnities that are intended to allocate certain risks associated with business transactions. Similarly, we may remain contingently liable for various obligations of a business that has been divested in the event that a third party does not live up to its obligations under an indemnification obligation. Further, we may from time to time agree to pay additional consideration to the sellers of a business depending on the performance of the business during a period following the closing. Guarantees We guarantee debt on certain of our investments, including principal and interest, of approximately $230.0 million at December 31, 2007 and have accrued a liability of $54.1 million in respect of such exposures. Our guarantees principally relate to our investment in DW Funding LLC (DW Funding), as more fully described in Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements, where Viacom is subject to a put option obligation at the then current fair value of DW Funding, commencing in August 2010, nine months prior to the fifth anniversary of the sale. Viacom also has a corresponding call option exercisable at fair value. To the extent the current fair value at the option closing date is insufficient to repay certain indebtedness, including any unpaid interest, of DW Funding guaranteed by us, we would be required to pay the difference. At December 31, 2007, our aggregate guarantee related to lease commitments of divested businesses, primarily Blockbuster and Famous Players, was $1.34 billion with a recorded liability of $244.6 million. Certain Blockbuster leases contain renewal options that can extend the primary lease term and remain covered by the guarantees. Blockbusters indemnification obligations are secured by a $150 million letter of credit. Blockbuster has agreed to indemnify Former Viacom with respect to any amount paid under these guarantees. Further, in the third quarter of 2005, Former Viacom sold Famous Players, an operator of movie theaters in Canada. Former 56 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Viacom may incur liabilities associated with Famous Players theater leases and Famous Players has agreed to indemnify Former Viacom with respect to any amount paid. In connection with the separation, we agreed to indemnify Former Viacom with respect to these obligations. Finally, we have indemnification obligations with respect to letters of credit and surety bonds primarily used as security against our non performance in the normal course of business. The outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds at December 31, 2007 were $189.6 million and are not recorded on the balance sheet. Contingent Consideration on Acquisitions In October 2006, we acquired Harmonix, the developer of Guitar Hero and Rock Band and other music gaming titles, for initial cash consideration of $175.0 million. To the extent financial results exceed specific contractual targets against a defined gross profit metric through 2008, former Harmonix shareholders will be eligible for incremental earn out payments with respect to the years ended December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2007, a liability of $208.7 million has been recorded in Other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet for the expected earn out payment. We expect to have a final payment with respect to the year ended December 31, 2008 done in 2009. Capital Resources Capital Structure and Financing Obligations At December 31, 2007, total financing obligations were $8.25 billion, an increase of $598.2 million from $7.65 billion at December 31, 2006. December 31, (in millions) 2007 2006 Senior notes and debentures $ 6,967.0 $ 6,219.1 Note payable 169.9 Credit facility 750.0 Commercial paper 55.9 1,093.6 Obligations under capital leases 303.3 335.2 Total financing obligations $ 8,246.1 $ 7,647.9 Senior Notes and Debentures In October 2007, we sold $500 million aggregate principal amount of 6.125% senior notes due 2017 at a price equal to 99.286% of the principal amount and $250 million aggregate principal amount of 6.750% Senior Debentures due 2037 at a price equal to 99.275% of the principal amount. The total discount on the sale of these instruments was $5.4 million. We used the total cash proceeds, net of discount and offering expenses, of $739.5 million to repay amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility and our commercial paper program. In April 2006, we sold $4.75 billion in aggregate principal amount of 5.75% Senior Notes due 2011, 6.25% Senior Notes due 2016 and 6.875% Senior Debentures due 2036. In addition, in June 2006, we sold $750.0 million in Floating Rate Senior Notes, due 2009, that bear interest at a per annum rate equal to the three month London Interbank Offer Rate (LIBOR) plus 0.35%, to be reset quarterly. In December 2006, we sold $750.0 million of 6.85% senior notes due 2055. In accordance with the terms of our term loan agreement in place at the time of the offering, we utilized the net proceeds from the offerings to repay in full amounts outstanding under such facility and used the remainder to pay a portion of the amounts outstanding under our commercial paper program. 57 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) In connection with the April 2006 debt offering, we entered into a $2.35 billion notional amount of variable to fixed interest rate swaps to hedge the variability of cash flows attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate. In the second quarter of 2006, we terminated the swaps, resulting in cash proceeds to us of approximately $88.0 million that we principally recorded as a component of other comprehensive income, net of tax. Such proceeds recorded in other comprehensive income will be recognized as a reduction of interest expense, net over the life of the senior notes and debentures. See the discussion under Interest Rate Risk below for further detail of interest rate hedges we entered into. Note Payable In 2007, we contributed a $230 million non interest bearing note payable ($190.0 million discounted at a rate of 5.8% with quarterly principal payments fully amortizing in 2013) and certain assets related to MTVNs URGE digital music service for a 49% stake in Rhapsody America LLC, a newly formed venture with RealNetworks, Inc. Credit Facility At December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had a single $3.25 billion revolving facility due December 2010. The primary purpose of the facility is to fund short term liquidity needs and to support commercial paper borrowings. Borrowing rates under the revolving facility are determined at the time of each borrowing and are based generally on the LIBOR plus a margin based on our senior unsecured credit rating. A facility fee is paid based on the total amount of the commitments. In addition, we may borrow in certain foreign currencies up to specified limits under the revolving facility. The credit facility contains typical covenants for an investment grade company, with the only financial covenant being a minimum interest coverage ratio. At December 31, 2007, we were in compliance with all covenants under the credit facility. Commercial Paper At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the outstanding commercial paper had a weighted average interest rate of 5.95% and 5.62%, respectively. At December 31, 2007, the average remaining life was less than 30 days. The commercial paper is classified as a non current financing obligation as we have the intent and ability through utilization of our $3.25 billion revolving facility due December 2010 to refinance such obligations as long term. Our scheduled maturities of long term debt at face value, excluding capital leases, outstanding at December 31, 2007 were as follows: (in millions) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter Long term debt $ 105.0 $ 815.0 $ 840.9 $ 1,500.0 $ $ 4,750.0 We anticipate that future debt maturities will be funded with cash and cash equivalents, cash flows from operating activities and future access to capital markets. There can be no assurance that we will be able to access capital markets on terms and conditions that will be acceptable to us. There are no provisions in any of our material financing agreements that would cause an acceleration of the obligation in the event of a downgrade in our debt ratings. Interest expense on debt borrowings was $453.7 million and $425.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The increase in interest expense for 2007 reflects the impact of fixed rate debt issuances during 2007 and 2006, which more than offsets the decrease in average debt outstanding. 58 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Securitization Facilities We securitize certain receivables because the highly liquid and efficient market for securitization of certain assets has been a source of lower cost funding compared to our other borrowings and diversifies our obligations among different markets and investors. We have been able to realize cost efficiencies under these arrangements since the assets securing the financing are generally held by a legally separate, wholly owned, bankruptcy remote special purpose entity (SPE) that provides investors with direct security in the assets. In general, we sell, on a revolving nonrecourse basis, a percentage ownership interest in certain of our accounts receivable (the Pooled Receivables), which are short term in nature, through SPEs to third party conduits sponsored by financial institutions. As consideration for Pooled Receivables sold through the securitization facilities, we receive cash and retained interests. The retained interests are included in Receivables on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. The retained interests may become uncollectible. In addition, we are the servicer of the receivables on behalf of the SPEs, for which we are paid a fee. Such servicing fee has not been material to any period presented. The terms of the revolving securitization arrangements require that the Pooled Receivables meet certain performance ratios. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, we were in compliance with the required ratios under the receivable securitization programs. During 2006, we increased our total capacity under the facilities by $500.0 million to $950.0 million and utilized the proceeds to pay down outstanding commercial paper. Stock Repurchase Program From January 2006 until June 22, 2007, we repurchased shares of our Class B Common Stock under a $3.0 billion stock repurchase program. In connection with the program, we entered into the NAIRI Agreement pursuant to which we agreed to buy from NAI and NAIRI a number of shares of our Class B Common Stock each month such that the ownership percentage of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock (considered as a single class) held by NAI and or NAIRI would not increase as a result of our purchase of shares under the program. For 2007, through completion of the program, 13.7 million shares were repurchased in the open market under the program for an aggregate purchase price of $580.0 million. An additional 1.8 million shares were purchased in 2007 under this program in accordance with the NAIRI Agreement for an aggregate purchase price of $75.0 million. On May 30, 2007, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved a new stock repurchase program under which we are authorized to acquire up to an additional $4.0 billion of Viacom Class A and Class B common stock. The independent members of the Board also approved NAI and NAIRIs continued participation in the new program on substantially the same terms as those on which it participated in the previous program and the NAIRI Agreement was amended accordingly. We commenced repurchases under the $4.0 billion stock repurchase program on June 22, 2007. For the year ended December 31, 2007, 30.0 million shares were repurchased in the open market under the new program for an aggregate purchase price of $1.21 billion. In addition, 2.8 million shares were purchased during 2007 from the 401(k) plans sponsored by CBS Corporation at an aggregate price of $120.0 million. An additional 4.2 million shares were purchased under the NAIRI Agreement for an aggregate purchase price of $170.8 million. Through February 27, 2008, we have acquired an additional 6.2 million shares at a weighted average price per share of $39.70 for an aggregate purchase price of $247.0 million, including shares purchased under the NAIRI Agreement. In the aggregate, for the year ended December 31, 2007, we acquired 52.5 million shares at a weighted average price per share of $41.06 for an aggregate purchase price of $2.16 billion under both of the stock repurchase programs, including shares purchased under the NAIRI Agreement and from the 401(k) plans sponsored by CBS Corporation. 59 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Our off balance sheet arrangements primarily consist of programming and talent commitments, operating lease arrangements and purchase obligations for goods and services. At December 31, 2007, our significant contractual obligations, including payments due by period, were as follows: (in millions) Total 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter Off balance Sheet Arrangements Programming and talent commitments(1) $ 1,782.9 $ 398.3 $ 290.1 $ 252.7 $ 234.5 $ 176.6 $ 430.7 Operating leases(2) $ 1,078.0 $ 171.1 $ 169.8 $ 123.3 $ 91.1 $ 85.7 $ 437.0 Purchase obligations(3) $ 646.2 $ 386.1 $ 174.3 $ 78.7 $ 5.7 $ 1.4 $ Balance Sheet Arrangements Capital lease obligations(4) $ 367.2 $ 99.0 $ 82.0 $ 49.9 $ 32.2 $ 26.9 $ 77.2 Long term debt $ 8,010.9 $ 105.0 $ 815.0 $ 840.9 $ 1,500.0 $ $ 4,750.0 Interest payments $ 7,876.2 $ 442.6 $ 422.5 $ 402.5 $ 356.1 $ 312.9 $ 5,939.6 Contingent consideration for acquisitions $ 208.7 $ 208.7 $ $ $ $ $ Other long term obligations(5) $ 2,832.0 $ 2,050.0 $ 304.1 $ 236.1 $ 153.4 $ 71.4 $ 17.0 (1) Programming and talent commitments primarily include $1.44 billion relating to cable programming and feature film production and acquisitions and $341.1 million for talent contracts. (2) Includes long term non cancelable operating lease commitments for retail and office space and equipment, transponders, studio facilities and vehicles. (3) Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including open purchase orders. (4) Includes capital leases for satellite transponders. (5) Other long term obligations consist of participations, residuals and programming obligations. Note: Not included in the amounts above are payments which may result from our unfunded defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefits of $233.3 million, unrecognized tax benefits of $436.2 million, including interest and penalties, $205 million of funding commitments to joint ventures and interest payments to be made under our credit facility, which expires in 2010. The amount and timing of payments with respect to these items are subject to a number of uncertainties such that we are unable to make sufficiently reliable estimations of future payments. We do expect to make contributions of $44 million in 2008 towards our pension and other postretirement benefits. MARKET RISK We are exposed to market risk related to foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. We use or expect to use derivative financial instruments to modify exposure to risks from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. In accordance with our policy, we do not use derivative instruments unless there is an underlying exposure, and we do not hold or enter into financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. Foreign Exchange Risk We conduct business in various countries outside the United States, resulting in exposure to movements in foreign exchange rates when translating from the foreign local currency to the U.S. dollar. In order to hedge anticipated cash flows and foreign currency balances in such currencies as the British Pound, the Australian Dollar, the Japanese Yen, the Canadian Dollar and the Euro, foreign currency forward contracts are used. Additionally, we designate forward contracts used to hedge future production costs as cash flow hedges, and designate certain forward contracts as a hedge of the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation. The change in fair value of the non designated contracts is included in current period earnings as part of other items, net. We manage the use of foreign exchange derivatives centrally. At December 31, 2007, the notional value of all foreign exchange contracts was $126.6 million, of which $26.3 million related to the 60 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) hedging of future production costs. The remaining $100.3 million represented economic hedges of underlying foreign currency balances, expected foreign currency net cash flows and investment hedges. At December 31, 2006, the notional value of all foreign exchange contracts was $253.0 million, of which $1.6 million related to the hedging of future production costs. The remaining $251.4 million represented economic hedges of underlying foreign currency balances and expected foreign currency net cash flows and investment hedges. Interest Rate Risk A portion of our interest expense is exposed to movements in short term rates. Interest rate hedges may be used to modify this exposure. During 2007 and 2006, we entered into $350.0 million and $2.35 billion, respectively, notional amount of interest rate hedges to reduce the variability of cash flows attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate of future debt issuances. We terminated these hedges during the same years resulting in net cash proceeds to us of approximately $1.4 million and $88.0 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, there were no interest rate hedges outstanding. We have variable rate debt that had an outstanding balance of $1.56 billion as of December 31, 2007. Based on our variable rate obligations outstanding at December 31, 2007, a 1% increase or decrease in the level of interest rates would, respectively, increase or decrease our annual interest expense and related cash payments by approximately $15.6 million. Such potential increases or decreases are based on certain simplifying assumptions, including a constant level of variable rate debt for all maturities and an immediate, across the board increase or decrease in the level of interest rates with no other subsequent changes for the remainder of the period. Conversely, since most of our cash balance of $920.2 million is invested in variable rate interest earning assets, we would also earn more (less) interest income due to such an increase (decrease) in interest rates. Credit Risk We continually monitor our positions with, and credit quality of, the financial institutions which are counterparties to our financial instruments. We are exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements. However, we do not anticipate nonperformance by the counterparties. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, which are based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. The result of these evaluations forms the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the reported amount of expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions. An appreciation of our critical accounting policies, those that are considered by management to require significant judgment and use of estimates and that could have a significant impact on our financial statements, is necessary to understand our financial results. Unless otherwise noted, we applied our critical accounting policies and estimation methods consistently in all material respects and for all periods presented, and have discussed such policies with our Audit Committee. Film Accounting Revenue Recognition Revenue we earn in connection with the exhibition of feature films by our Filmed Entertainment segment is recognized in accordance with Statement of Position No. 00 2, Accounting by Producers or Distributors of Films 61 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) (SOP 00 2). Our Filmed Entertainment segment principally earns revenue from the exhibition of feature film content based upon theatrical exhibition, home entertainment and various television markets (e.g., network, pay, syndication, basic cable). We recognize revenue from theatrical distribution of motion pictures upon exhibition. We recognize revenue from home entertainment product sales, net of anticipated returns, upon the later of delivery or the date that these products are made widely available for sale by retailers. We recognize revenue from the licensing of feature films and original programming for exhibition in television markets upon availability for airing by the licensee. We recognize revenue for video on demand and similar pay per view arrangements as the feature films are exhibited based on end customer purchases as reported by the distributor. Original Production and Film Costs We capitalize original production and feature film costs, on a title specific basis, as Inventory in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We use an individual forecast computation method to amortize the costs over the applicable titles life cycle based upon the ratio of current period and total gross revenues (ultimate revenues) for each title. We expense print and advertising costs as they are incurred and expense manufacturing costs, such as DVD manufacturing costs, on a unit specific basis when we recognize the related revenue. In accordance with SOP 00 2, our estimate of ultimate revenues for feature films includes revenues from all sources that will be earned within ten years from the date of a films initial domestic theatrical release. For acquired film libraries, our estimate of ultimate revenues is for a period within 20 years from the date of acquisition. Prior to the release of feature films and throughout its life, we estimate the ultimate revenues based on the historical performance of similar content, as well as incorporating factors of the content itself, including, but not limited to, the expected number of theaters and markets in which the original content will be released, the genre of the original content and the past box office performance of the lead actors and actresses. We believe the most sensitive factor affecting our estimate of ultimate revenues for feature films is domestic theatrical exhibition, as subsequent markets have historically exhibited a high correlation to domestic theatrical performance. The estimate of ultimate revenues impacts the timing of film cost amortization. Upon a films initial domestic theatrical release and performance, we update our estimate of ultimate revenues based on actual results. If our original content is not received favorably, we may reduce our estimate of ultimate revenues, thereby accelerating the amortization of capitalized film costs. In addition, we use the individual film forecast computation method to determine whether or not film costs are impaired. If we believe that the release of our content has not been favorably received, then we would assess whether the fair value of such content is less than the unamortized portion of its capitalized costs and, if need be, recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the unamortized capitalized costs exceed the fair value. We had $1.89 billion and $1.77 billion of film costs capitalized as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and $1.30 billion and $1.17 billion, respectively, of capitalized original programming costs. Acquired Programming Rights The accounting for acquired program rights is addressed by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) in Statement No. 63, Financial Reporting by Broadcasters (FAS 63). Under the provisions of FAS 63, a licensee reports an asset and liability for the rights acquired and obligations incurred at the commencement of the licensing period when the cost of the programming is known or reasonably determinable, the program material has been accepted by the licensee and the programming is available for airing. We record the transaction using the gross liability provision. The asset is amortized to operating expenses over the estimated periods revenues are generated, commencing upon the first airing. Determining factors used in estimating the useful life of programming includes the expected number of future airings, which may differ from the contracted number of 62 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) airings, the length of the license period and expected future revenues to be generated from the programming. An impairment charge may be necessary if our estimates of useful life of the programming are reduced or if programming is abandoned. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had acquired programming rights of $1.42 billion and $1.30 billion, respectively. Revenue Recognition Gross versus Net Revenue Recognition We earn and recognize revenues where we act as distributor on behalf of third parties. In such cases, determining whether revenue should be reported on a gross or net basis is based on managements assessment of whether we act as the principal or agent in the transaction. To the extent we act as the principal in a transaction, we report revenues on a gross basis. In concluding on whether or not we act as principal, we follow the guidance set forth by the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) in EITF Issue No. 99 19, Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net as an Agent (EITF 99 19). The determination of whether we act as a principal or an agent in a transaction involves judgment and is based on an evaluation of whether we have the substantial risks and rewards of ownership under the terms of an arrangement. Currently, our most significant arrangements are the DWA agreements and the DW Funding distribution agreement. Under the terms of these agreements, we are generally responsible for all out of pocket costs, primarily comprised of distribution and marketing costs. For the provision of distribution services, we are entitled to retain a fee expressed as a percentage of gross receipts, and recoup expended distribution and marketing costs on a film by film basis prior to any participation payments to DreamWorks Animation and DW Funding. We also have a similar arrangement with Marvel. As primary obligor, revenue and related distribution and marketing costs for these arrangements are presented on a gross basis in accordance with EITF 99 19. Sales Returns and Uncollectible Accounts Revenue allowances are recorded to adjust amounts originally invoiced to the estimated net realizable value in accordance with revenue recognition guidance set forth in FASB Statement No. 48, Revenue Recognition When Right of Return Exists. Upon the sale of home entertainment product, we record a reduction of revenue for the impact of estimated customer future returns, rebates and other incentives (estimated returns). In determining estimated returns, we analyze historical return activity, current economic trends and changes in customer demand and acceptance of our products. Based on this information, we reserve a percentage of each dollar of product revenue when we provide a customer with the right of return. Our estimate of future returns affects reported revenue and operating income. If we underestimate the impact of future returns in a particular period, then we may record less revenue in later periods when returns exceed the estimated amounts. If we overestimate the impact of future returns in a particular period, then we may record additional revenue in later periods when returns are less than estimated. An incremental change of 1% in our estimated sales returns for home entertainment and consumer products revenue would have a $32.0 million impact on our total revenue. Our sales return allowance totaled $706.2 million and $562.7 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We also continually evaluate accounts receivable and establish judgments as to their ultimate collectibility. Judgment and estimates involved include an analysis of specific risks on a customer by customer basis for larger accounts and an analysis of actual historical write off experience in conjunction with the length of time the receivables are past due. Using this information, management reserves an amount that is estimated to be uncollectible. An incremental change of 1% in our allowance for uncollectible accounts for trade accounts receivables would have a $27.2 million impact on our operating results. Our allowance for uncollectible accounts totaled $101.9 million and $142.9 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 63 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Provision for Income Taxes As a global entertainment content company, we are subject to income taxes in the United States and foreign jurisdictions where we have operations. Significant judgment is required in determining our annual provision for income taxes and evaluating our income tax positions. Our tax rates are affected by many factors, including our global mix of earnings, legislation, acquisitions, dispositions, as well as the tax characteristics of our income. Our income tax returns are routinely audited and settlements of issues raised in these audits sometimes affect our tax provisions. During 2007 and 2006, we reached settlement of certain matters with the Internal Revenue Service. As a result, our 2007 and 2006 provision for income taxes includes $15.0 million and $141.8 million of net discrete tax benefits principally related to these settlements. Fair Value Measurements The performance of fair value measurements is an integral part of the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Fair value is defined as the exchange price in an orderly transaction between market participants to sell an asset or transfer a liability in the principal market for such asset or liability. Selection of the appropriate valuation technique, as well as determination of assumptions and estimates for each technique requires significant judgment. Although we believe that the inputs used in our valuation techniques are reasonable, a change in one or more of the inputs could result in an increase or decrease in the fair value of certain assets and certain liabilities. Either instance would have an impact on both our Consolidated Balance Sheet and Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Provided below are those instances where the determination of fair value could have the most significant impact on our financial condition or results of operations: Business Combinations. During 2007 and 2006, we paid and or assumed debt obligations of approximately $14.5 million and $2.07 billion in total consideration, net of cash acquired, for the purchase of whole, controlling interest or specific assets of several entities. The determination of fair value and associated lives for each asset and liability has a direct impact on our results of operations. Goodwill and Indefinite Lived Intangible Assets. On an annual basis the test for goodwill impairment is performed using a two step process. The first step is to identify a potential impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. Our reporting units are consistent with our operating segments. The estimates of fair value of a reporting unit are determined based on a discounted cash flow analysis. A discounted cash flow analysis requires us to make various judgmental assumptions, including assumptions about future cash flows, growth rates and discount rates. The assumptions about future cash flows and growth rates are based on the budget and long term business plans of each operating segment. Discount rate assumptions are based on an assessment of the risk inherent in the future cash flows of the respective reporting units. If necessary, the second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. In addition, we currently have two trademarks that we consider to have an indefinite life. The impairment test for indefinite lived intangible assets consists of a comparison of the fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying value. The estimates of fair value of trademarks are determined using a discounted cash flow valuation methodology commonly referred to as the relief from royalty methodology. Significant 64 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) assumptions inherent in the relief from royalty methodology employed include estimates of appropriate marketplace royalty rates and discount rates. Our impairment analysis, which is performed annually during the fourth quarter, did not result in an impairment charge for goodwill or indefinite lived intangible assets in the years presented. Finite Lived Intangible Assets. In determining whether finite lived intangible assets (e.g., customer lists, film libraries) are impaired, the accounting rules do not provide for an annual impairment test. Instead, they require that a triggering event occur before testing an asset for impairment. Once a triggering event has occurred, the impairment test employed is based on whether the intent is to hold the asset for continued use or to hold the asset for sale. If the intent is to hold the asset for continued use, first a comparison of undiscounted future cash flows against the carrying value of the asset is performed. If the carrying value exceeds the undiscounted cash flows, the asset would be written down to the discounted fair value. If the intent is to hold the asset for sale, to the extent the carrying value is greater than the assets value, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference. Significant judgments in this area involve determining whether a triggering event has occurred and the determination of the cash flows for the assets involved and the discount rate to be applied in determining fair value. There was no impairment of finite lived intangible assets in the years presented. RECENT PRONOUNCEMENTS Statement No. 141 (R) In December 2007, FASB issued Statement No. 141 (R), Business Combinations revised (FAS 141 (R)). FAS 141 (R) provides additional guidance and standards for the acquisition method of accounting to be used for all business combinations. FAS 141 (R) will be effective for all business combinations consummated beginning January 1, 2009. Statement No. 160 In December 2007, FASB issued Statement No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51 (FAS 160). FAS 160 establishes and provides accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. FAS 160 will be effective for us beginning January 1, 2009. We are currently assessing the potential effect of FAS 160 on the financial statements. Statement No. 157 In September 2006, the FASB finalized Statement No. 157 Fair Value Measurements (FAS 157). FAS 157 establishes a framework for measuring fair value, clarifies the definition of fair value, and expands disclosures about the use of fair value measurements; however, it does not require any new fair value measurements. The provisions of FAS 157 will be applied prospectively beginning January 1, 2008 for all financial assets and financial liabilities recognized or disclosed in the financial statements at fair value. The adoption of these provisions of the Statement are not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements. For all non financial assets and non financial liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a nonrecurring basis, the effective date of FAS 157 has been delayed until January 1, 2009. We are currently assessing the potential effect of these provisions of the Statement on the financial statements. 65 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) OTHER MATTERS Legal Matters Litigation is inherently uncertain and always difficult to predict. However, based on our understanding and evaluation of the relevant facts and circumstances, we believe the legal matters described below and other litigation to which we are a party are not likely, in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Pending Litigation In March 2007, we filed a complaint in the Federal Court for the Southern District of New York against Google Inc. (Google) and its wholly owned subsidiary YouTube, alleging that Google and YouTube violated and continue to violate our copyrights. We are seeking both damages and injunctive relief, and the lawsuit is currently in discovery. Former Viacom, NAI, Blockbuster and we, and certain of their and our respective present and former officers and directors, are currently defendants in an ERISA action in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas relating to the 2004 split off of Blockbuster from Former Viacom pursuant to an exchange offer. A consolidated securities action in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas and a state law action in the Court of Chancery of Delaware arising from the same facts were dismissed in September 2007 and February 2008, respectively. The plaintiff in the latter action have filed a notice of appeal. The plaintiff in the ERISA action alleges that the defendants in that case breached fiduciary obligations to the Blockbuster Investment Plan by continuing to offer to plan participants Blockbuster stock from and after November 2003 and by offering to Plan participants the opportunity to exchange their shares of Former Viacom common stock for the shares of Blockbuster common stock. In September 2007, defendants motion to dismiss the ERISA action was granted in part and denied in part, and in November, the plaintiff filed an amended complaint, which the defendants moved to dismiss in January. Blockbuster has agreed to indemnify Former Viacom and its employees, officers and directors with respect to any liabilities arising out of any material untrue statements and omissions in those portions of the 2004 Prospectus Offer to Exchange relating to the split off that were provided by Blockbuster, and we have agreed to indemnify CBS Corporation for any losses arising from these lawsuits. We believe that the plaintiffs positions in these litigations are without merit and intend to continue to vigorously defend ourselves. In September 2007, Brantley, et al. v. NBC Universal, Inc., et al., was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California against us and several other program content providers on behalf of a purported nationwide class of cable and satellite subscribers. The plaintiffs also sued several major cable and satellite program distributors, alleging against all defendants violations of Sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Antitrust Act. The complaint alleges that the programmer defendants conspired to sell and or license programming on a bundled basis to the distributor defendants, who in turn offer programming to their customers in bundles, rather than in a channel by channel (or &agrave; la carte) basis. Plaintiffs seek, among other things, treble monetary damages in an unspecified amount and in injunction to compel the offering of channels to subscribers on an &agrave; la carte basis. In December 2007, all of the defendants moved to dismiss the amended complaint, and we intend to vigorously defend this lawsuit. Concluded Litigation On July 13, 2005, two identical shareholder derivative lawsuits were filed against Former Viacom relating to the compensation of Sumner Redstone, Tom Freston and Leslie Moonves, each of whom was an executive officer of Former Viacom. On November 27, 2007, the judge in the case approved a final settlement, the costs of which were immaterial and have been evenly shared with CBS Corporation. 66 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Related Parties NAI, through NAIRI, Inc., is the controlling stockholder of both Viacom and CBS Corporation and NAI also controls Midway Games. Sumner M. Redstone, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and controlling shareholder of NAI, is the Executive Chairman of the Board and Founder of Viacom and CBS Corporation. In addition, Shari Redstone, who is Sumner Redstones daughter, is the Vice Chair of the Board of Viacom and CBS Corporation, is President and a director of NAI and is Chairman of Midway. Philippe Dauman, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and George Abrams, one of our directors, serve on the boards of both NAI and Viacom. Fred Salerno, one of our directors, serves on the board of both Viacom and CBS Corporation. NAI licenses films in the ordinary course of business for its motion picture theaters from all major studios including Paramount. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, NAI made payments to Paramount in connection with these licenses in the aggregate amounts of approximately $36.5 million, $13.4 million and $14.6 million, respectively. NAI and Mr. Redstone owned in the aggregate approximately 87% and 88% of the common stock of Midway Games Inc. (Midway) as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Midway places advertisements on several of Viacoms cable networks from time to time. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, Midway made payments to MTVN of approximately $2.9 million, $4.1 million and $5.9 million, respectively. We believe that these transactions were no more or less favorable to the subsidiaries than they would have obtained from unrelated parties. We may continue to enter into these and other business transactions with Midway in the future. In connection with our stock repurchase programs, in 2007 and 2006, respectively, we purchased 6.0 million and 6.9 million shares under the NAIRI Agreement for aggregate purchase prices of $245.8 million and $269.5 million, respectively. In September 2005, Cinemas International Corporation N.V., a joint venture between Former Viacom and Vivendi Universal, agreed to sell its Brazilian movie operations to NAI for approximately $27.5 million in a transaction that closed in October 2005. The sale was discussed with multiple potential purchasers and negotiated on terms we believe are no more or less favorable than those that might have been negotiated with an unaffiliated party. In the normal course of business, we are involved in other related party transactions that have not been material in any of the periods presented. For information on NAIs participation in our stock repurchase program, see section on Capital Resources Stock Repurchase Program. Viacom and CBS Corporation Related Party Transactions In the normal course of business, we are involved in transactions with companies owned by or affiliated with CBS Corporation that results in the recognition of revenue by Viacom. Paramount licenses motion picture products to CBS Corporation. Paramount distributes certain television products for a fee on behalf of CBS Corporations television production group in the home entertainment market. Paramount also recognizes revenue related to the lease of studio space to CBS Corporation. Our media networks recognize advertising revenues for media spending placed by various subsidiaries of CBS Corporation. 67 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Through our media networks, we purchase television programming from CBS Corporation. The cost of these purchases is initially recorded as acquired program rights inventory and amortized over the estimated period that revenues will be generated. We place advertisements with various subsidiaries of CBS Corporation. Transactions with CBS Corporation, through the normal course of business, are settled in cash. The following table summarizes the transactions with CBS Corporation as included in our consolidated financial statements: Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Consolidated Statements of Earnings Revenues $ 243.5 $ 257.3 $ 154.9 Operating expenses $ 184.7 $ 166.5 $ 170.5 Discontinued operations $ (4.6 ) $ (2.6 ) $ (1.8 ) December 31, 2007 2006 Consolidated Balance Sheets Accounts receivable $ 86.7 $ 95.5 Other assets 22.6 40.2 Total due from CBS Corporation $ 109.3 $ 135.7 Accounts payable $ 2.9 $ 3.0 Participants share, residuals and royalties payable 177.3 168.5 Programming rights, current 98.1 152.6 Other liabilities 177.1 226.7 Liabilities held for sale 4.4 Total due to CBS Corporation $ 455.4 $ 555.2 Special Dividend to Former Viacom In accordance with the terms of the Separation Agreement, in December 2005 we paid a preliminary special dividend to Former Viacom of $5.40 billion which was subject to adjustments for, among other items, actual Former Viacom debt as of the date of the separation and actual CBS Corporation cash flow for 2005, compared to estimates used to calculate the preliminary special dividend. In 2006 and 2007, we made further payments of $206.1 million and $170.0 million, respectively, to CBS Corporation in final resolution of the adjustments. 401(k) Plan Transactions Following the separation, some participants in the Viacom 401(k) Plan continued to be invested in CBS Corporation Class A and Class B common stock. On June 29, 2007, we entered into an agreement with CBS Corporation for CBS Corporation to purchase the shares of CBS Corporation Class A and Class B common stock from the Viacom 401(k) Plan, and in July, those shares were sold to CBS Corporation for total proceeds of $29.8 million. Similarly, some participants in the 401(k) plans sponsored by CBS Corporation continued to be invested in Viacom Class A and Class B common stock following the separation. On June 29, 2007, we entered into an agreement with CBS Corporation for us to purchase the shares of Viacom Class A and Class B common stock from the CBS sponsored 401(k) plans, and in July, those shares were purchased for an aggregate amount of $120.0 million. In connection with the separation, we entered into a Separation Agreement with CBS Corporation that identified assets to be transferred, liabilities to be assumed and obligations of each company following the separation, 68 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) including indemnification obligations for such liabilities. We also entered into a Transition Services Agreement and a Tax Matters Agreement with CBS Corporation. Such arrangements are further described below. For information on the shares repurchased from the 401(k) plans sponsored by CBS Corporation, see section on Capital Resources Stock Repurchase Program. Separation Agreement The Separation Agreement contains the key provisions required to effect the separation of Former Viacom into Viacom and CBS Corporation. The Separation Agreement identified assets transferred, liabilities assumed and contracts assigned to us by CBS Corporation and to CBS Corporation by us in the separation, and described when and how these transfers, assumptions and assignments were to occur. The Separation Agreement also sets forth certain agreements between us and CBS Corporation with respect to the period following the separation date. Former Viacom and Viacom executed the Separation Agreement in December 2005. Indemnification Obligations. Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, each company indemnified the other company and the other companys officers, directors and employees for any losses arising out of its failure to perform or discharge any of the liabilities it assumed pursuant to the Separation Agreement, its businesses as conducted as of the date of the separation and its breaches of shared contracts. Legal Matters. In general, under the Separation Agreement, Viacom assumed the liability for, and control of, all pending and threatened legal matters related to its own business or assumed liabilities and will indemnify the other party for any liability arising out of or resulting from such assumed legal matters. Liability for, and control of, future litigation claims against Viacom for events that took place prior to, on or after the date of the separation generally will be assumed by the company operating the business to which the claim relates or, in the case of businesses which were sold or discontinued prior to the date of the separation, or for other matters agreed to be indemnified, the company which has assumed the liabilities. Viacom agreed to cooperate in defending any claims against both of Viacom and CBS Corporation for events that took place prior to, on, or after the date of the separation. Employee Matters. The Separation Agreement allocated liabilities and responsibilities relating to employee compensation and benefit plans and programs and other related matters in connection with the separation, including the treatment of certain outstanding annual and long term incentive awards, existing deferred compensation obligations and certain retirement and welfare benefit obligations. In general, the Separation Agreement provides that, following the separation, Viacom is responsible for all employment and benefit related obligations and liabilities related to current employees who work for Viacom immediately following the separation, Former Viacom employees who most recently worked for other businesses and operations that became part of Viacom immediately following the separation, Former Viacom employees who most recently worked for certain other businesses and operations that were sold or discontinued prior to the separation, and certain other former employees of Former Viacom as set forth in the Separation Agreement (and, in each case, their dependents and beneficiaries). Liability for benefit related obligations and liabilities of former employees of Former Viacom who most recently worked for the Former Viacom corporate office or the Paramount Pictures corporate office (other than those who accepted a post separation position with CBS Corporation or Viacom) and certain Former Viacom corporate office employees who will remain employed by CBS Corporation and provide transition services following the separation is shared equally by Viacom and CBS Corporation. Effective as of the separation, employees of Viacom, other than overlapping employees, do not participate in Former Viacoms employee benefit plans and Viacom established its own employee benefit plans that are 69 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) substantially similar to the plans sponsored by Former Viacom prior to the separation. The Separation Agreement provided for the transfer of assets and liabilities, as applicable, relating to the pre separation participation of Viacom employees and certain Former Viacom employees (as set forth in the Separation Agreement) in various Former Viacom retirement, welfare, incentive compensation and employee benefit plans from such plans to the applicable new plans established by Viacom. Limitations on Certain Acquisitions. Subject to limited exceptions, the Separation Agreement provides that none of Viacom, any subsidiary of Viacom or any person that is controlled by Viacom after the separation will own or acquire an interest in a radio or television broadcast station, television broadcast network or daily newspaper, if such ownership or acquisition would (i) cause CBS Corporation, any subsidiary of CBS Corporation or any entity controlled by CBS Corporation after the date of the separation to be in violation of U.S. federal laws limiting the ownership or control of radio broadcast stations, television broadcast stations, television broadcast networks or (ii) limit in any manner at any time under such laws CBS Corporations ability to acquire additional interests in a radio or television broadcast station and or television broadcast network. These restrictions will terminate when none of Mr. Redstone, NAI, NAIRI or any of their successors, assigns or transferees are deemed to have interests in both CBS Corporation and Viacom that are attributable under applicable U.S. federal laws. The Separation Agreement also provides that neither Viacom, any subsidiary of Viacom or any person controlled by Viacom nor CBS Corporation, any subsidiary of CBS Corporation or any person controlled by CBS Corporation will acquire any asset, enter into any agreement or accept or agree to any condition that purports to bind, or subjects to a legal order, the other company, its subsidiaries or any person it controls without such other partys written consent. In addition, neither Viacom, any subsidiary of Viacom or any person controlled by Viacom nor CBS Corporation, or subsidiary of CBS Corporation or any person controlled by CBS Corporation will own or acquire an interest in a cable television operator if such ownership would subject the other company to any U.S. federal laws regulating contractual relationships between video programming vendors and video programming distributors to which it is not then subject. These restrictions will terminate for each company on the earliest of (1) the fourth anniversary of the separation, (2) the date on which none of Mr. Redstone, NAI, NAIRI or any of their successors, assigns or transferees are deemed to have interests in both CBS Corporation and Viacom that are attributable under applicable U.S. federal laws and (3) the date on which the other company ceases to own the video programming vendors that it owns as of the separation. Tax Matters Agreement The following description of the principal provisions of the Tax Matters Agreement between Former Viacom and us is qualified by reference to the text of the Tax Matters Agreement, a form of which was filed as an exhibit to this annual report. The Tax Matters Agreement sets forth Viacoms responsibilities with respect to, among other things, liabilities for federal, state, local and foreign income taxes for periods before and including the merger, the preparation and filing of income tax returns for such periods, disputes with taxing authorities regarding income taxes for such periods and indemnification for income taxes that would become due if the merger were taxable. Viacom will generally be responsible for federal, state and local, and foreign income taxes for periods before the merger relating to Viacoms respective businesses. Income tax liabilities relating to discontinued operations and previously disposed businesses have been allocated in accordance with the principles applicable under the Separation Agreement for liabilities relating to those operations and businesses. Other income tax liabilities, 70 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) including items that do not specifically relate to either business, will be shared equally. Viacom and CBS Corporation will generally be jointly responsible for managing any dispute relating to income taxes for which both parties may be responsible. The Tax Matters Agreement also provides that, depending on the event, Viacom may have to indemnify CBS Corporation, or CBS Corporation may have to indemnify Viacom, for some or all of the taxes resulting from the transactions related to the merger and the distribution of Viacom common stock if the merger and distribution do not qualify as tax free under Sections 355 and 368 of the Code. 71 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Disclosures on our market risk are included in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition Market Risk. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition. Managements discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition is provided as a supplement to and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes to enhance the understanding of our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. References in this document to Viacom, Company, we, us and our mean Viacom Inc. and our consolidated subsidiaries through which our various businesses are conducted, unless the context requires otherwise. Certain amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2007 presentation. Significant components of the managements discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition section include: Page Overview. The overview section provides a summary of Viacom and our reportable business segments and the principal factors affecting our results of operations. In addition, we provide a brief discussion of our separation from the former Viacom Inc. (Former Viacom) and of our basis of presentation for our financial results, including comparability of prior period carve out financial statements and presentation of discontinued operations. 35 Consolidated Results of Operations. The consolidated results of operations section provides an analysis of our results on a consolidated basis for the three years ended December 31, 2007. 39 Segment Results of Operations. The segment results of operations section provides an analysis of our results on a reportable operating segment basis for the three years ended December 31, 2007. 45 Liquidity and Capital Resources. The liquidity and capital resources section provides a discussion of our cash flows for the three years ended December 31, 2007 and of our outstanding debt and commitments existing at December 31, 2007. 54 Market Risk. We are principally exposed to market risk related to foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The market risk section discusses how we manage exposure to these and other market risks. 60 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. The critical accounting policies section provides detail with respect to accounting policies that are considered by management to require significant judgment and use of estimates and that could have a significant impact on our financial statements. 61 Recent Pronouncements. The recent pronouncements section provides a discussion of recently issued accounting pronouncements yet to be adopted, including a discussion of the impact or potential impact of such standards on our financial statements when applicable. 65 Other Matters. The other matters section provides a discussion of legal matters, related party transactions and provisions of the various separation related agreements still relevant as of December 31, 2007. 66 34 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition OVERVIEW Summary We are a leading global entertainment content company. We engage audiences on television, motion picture and digital platforms through many of the worlds best known entertainment brands, including MTV&reg;, VH1&reg;, CMT&reg;, Logo&reg;, Harmonix&reg;, Nickelodeon&reg;, Noggin&reg;, Nick at Nite&reg;, AddictingGames, Neopets&reg;, COMEDY CENTRAL&reg;, Spike TV&reg;, TV Land&reg;, AtomFilms&reg;, Gametrailers, BET&reg;, Paramount Pictures&reg;, DreamWorks Pictures and Paramount Vantage. On December 31, 2005, we became a stand alone public company in connection with our separation from Former Viacom, which is now known as CBS Corporation. See The Separation from CBS Corporation section below for more information. References in this document to CBS Corporation mean CBS Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries, unless the context requires otherwise. We manage our operations through two reporting segments: Media Networks, which includes MTV Networks (MTVN) and BET Networks (BETN), and Filmed Entertainment. Media Networks Through a combination of original and acquired programming and other entertainment content, the Media Networks brands are focused on providing content that appeals to key demographics attractive to advertisers across multiple distribution platforms, including cable television, satellite, mobile and digital media assets. Our leading program services reach over 520 million households worldwide, operating in more than 160 countries and territories. We have approximately 150 channels and 300 interactive digital media properties, which include online, broadband, mobile and interactive television services, and operate a robust consumer products business. MTVN is a major producer of mobile video content for major carriers and mobile virtual network operators in the United States and internationally, and MTVN and BETN content is also available for download to own through deals with third parties such as AOL, Amazon, Apple and Microsoft. We continue to invest organically and through select acquisitions and investments in digital media and other assets that are attractive to the demographics we serve. For example, in 2007, MTV Networks and Real Networks, Inc. created Rhapsody America, a venture that provides subscription based digital music services, among other services. We contributed a $230 million non interest bearing note payable and certain assets related to MTVNs URGE digital music service for a 49% stake in Rhapsody America. Internationally, we are expanding our presence while focusing our resources in the regions and on the demographics that offer the greatest growth opportunities for our brands. In India, we established a joint venture (Viacom 18) with Network18 Fincap Limited (Network18), a leading entertainment and media company in India, through the contribution of our existing MTV Networks India operations to the venture, with cash and other consideration contributed to the venture by Network18. In the Russian market, we sold our non controlling equity investment in MTV Russia. The Media Networks segment is focused on expanding and enhancing our brands through the creation of original hit programming and other content, including games, and the expansion of the experiences we offer through online and wireless platforms. We seek to increase our revenues by expanding our audiences and offering creative ways for advertisers, cable, satellite and mobile operators and other interested parties to reach these audiences. Our Media Networks segment generates revenues principally from three sources: (i) the sale of advertising time on our cable television networks and digital properties and services, (ii) the receipt of affiliate fees from cable 35 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) television operators, direct to home or DTH satellite operators, mobile networks and other distributors and (iii) ancillary revenues, which include home entertainment sales of our programming, the licensing of our content to third parties, the licensing of our brands for consumer products, including video games, and the creation and distribution of video games and other interactive products. We derive revenues from our home entertainment products and video games, such as Rock Band and Guitar Hero and our consumer products business that licenses popular characters such as those featured in SpongeBob SquarePants, The Backyardigans, Dora the Explorer, Neopets and South Park to consumer product companies. Our content is designed to target key audience demographics and the popularity of our programming creates a powerful reason for advertisers to purchase commercial time on our cable television networks and digital properties and services. The advertising industry has recently introduced commercial ratings which measure audience size for a commercial. Commercial ratings are currently measured on a C3 basis, which means the number of viewers that watch the commercial live or via playback during the three days following the live broadcast. We are exploring various alternatives for the pricing, structure and volume of our advertising spots and commercial segments to reflect this new ratings methodology, which will largely be effective beginning in 2008. Audience ratings also create demand on the part of cable television operators, direct to home or DTH satellite operators, mobile networks and other distributors to deliver our content to their customers, which allows us to obtain multi year affiliation deals that provide us with a reasonably stable source of affiliate fee revenues. We are currently negotiating renewals of several long term affiliation agreements, and are looking to build stronger and more expansive multi media partnerships with the various distributors of our content that maximize the value of these relationships for our brands. Media Networks segment revenue growth depends on the continued increase of advertising revenues and affiliate fees which we expect will be driven by the popularity of our programming and other entertainment content and, in part, by the increased availability of our content on new distribution platforms and our ability to monetize our multiplatform presence. In addition, our advertising revenues may fluctuate due to the mix and availability of programming and entertainment content, the overall strength of the advertising market and seasonal variations, being typically highest in the fourth quarter. Growth also depends on the continued demand for our properties to generate license fees, including for use by licensees in their commercial products sold at retail. We incur production costs in connection with creating original content for our networks. These costs are comprised of expenses associated with retaining creative talent including actors, writers and producers, as well as marketing and distribution costs that drive awareness and make our content available for distribution to consumers directly. We also incur costs to acquire content such as television series from production companies. Filmed Entertainment The Filmed Entertainment segment produces, finances and distributes motion pictures under the Paramount Pictures, DreamWorks Pictures, Paramount Vantage, Paramount Classics, MTV Films and Nickelodeon Movies brands. Paramounts library consists of approximately 3,500 motion pictures and a small number of television programs. In general, motion pictures produced or acquired for distribution by the Filmed Entertainment segment are exhibited theatrically in the U.S. and internationally, followed by their release on DVDs, videos on demand, pay and free cable television, broadcast television and syndicated television (the distribution windows), and, in some cases, licensing to airlines, hotels, schools and universities. During 2007, Transformers was released under the DreamWorks and Paramount labels and Shrek the Third, a DreamWorks Animation production, was distributed by Paramount. We also released There Will Be Blood and 36 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) No Country for Old Men under the Paramount Vantage label, and DreamWorks titles such as Norbit, Disturbia and Blades of Glory, which was released in association with MTV Films. Films released under the Paramount label included Beowulf and Freedom Writers, which was released in association with MTV Films. On January 31, 2006, we completed the acquisition of DreamWorks L.L.C. (DreamWorks) a leading producer of live action motion pictures and television programming. In connection with the acquisition, we acquired certain exclusive distribution rights to and home video fulfillment services for the animated feature films produced by DreamWorks Animation SKG, Inc. (DreamWorks Animation and collectively, the DWA agreements) and also acquired a live action film library (the live action library) consisting of 59 films released through September 16, 2005. In May 2006, we sold a controlling interest in DW Funding LLC (DW Funding), the entity which owns the live action library, and entered into an agreement for the exclusive worldwide distribution rights to the library for a five year period, which is renewable under certain circumstances. Separately, we also have a distribution arrangement with Marvel under which the first release will be Iron Man in 2008. In domestic markets, we perform our own marketing and distribution services. Through 2006, through our international affiliates, we generally distributed our motion pictures for theatrical release outside the United States and Canada through United International Pictures (UIP), a company that we and an affiliate of Universal Studios, Inc. (Universal) own jointly. In January 2007, Paramount and Universal began theatrical self distribution in 15 key countries that were separated from UIPs distribution business, with each party taking over the UIP operating entity in designated countries. Paramount and Universal each have the option to continue a transitional distribution arrangement with the other party in the respective countries for up to two years. Effective January 1, 2008, both Paramount and Universal exited UIP Japan, and Paramount has set up its own distribution operation in Japan. The UIP joint venture continues to operate in certain other territories. These self distribution activities represent a significant expansion of Paramounts international presence, and we intend to continue to expand internationally through increased direct distribution and acquisition of local content. The Filmed Entertainment segment is also focused on continuing to improve our market position and profitability through the continued development of franchise and branded films, and the diversification of revenue streams, such as making library product available online. We intend to grow Filmed Entertainment segment revenues by continuing to capitalize on our Paramount, DreamWorks, and Paramount Vantage labels and on our various media networks brands. Developing synergies across our brands permits us to leverage the core MTVN and BETN audiences. Our Filmed Entertainment segment generates revenues principally from: (i) the theatrical release of motion pictures in domestic and international markets, (ii) home entertainment, which includes sales of DVDs and other products relating to the motion pictures as well as other programming and (iii) license fees paid worldwide by third parties for exhibition rights on various media. Ancillary revenues are principally derived from studio income, consumer products licensing and distribution of our content through new online and mobile platforms. Our Filmed Entertainment segment results of operations substantially depend on the number and quality of films produced, their distribution and marketing success and public response, as well as our ability to obtain creative talent and scripts for motion pictures. Revenues from motion picture theatrical releases tend to be cyclical with increases during the summer months, around holidays and in the fourth quarter. The theatrical success of a motion picture is also a significant factor in determining the revenues it is likely to generate in home entertainment product sales and licensing fees during the various other distribution windows. We incur marketing costs before and throughout the theatrical release of a film and, to a lesser extent, other exhibition windows. Such costs are incurred to generate public interest in our films and are expensed as incurred; therefore, we typically incur losses with respect to a particular film prior to and during the films theatrical 37 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) exhibition. In addition, for films we distribute on behalf of DreamWorks Animation or similar distribution arrangements, we expense print and advertising costs as incurred and typically recover such costs following the release. Therefore, the results of the Filmed Entertainment segment can be volatile as films work their way through the various distribution windows, generally incurring losses in the pre release and theatrical windows before moving to profitability in subsequent distribution windows such as home video and television. Production costs are capitalized as incurred and amortized over the flow of ultimate revenues. We have entered into film financing arrangements under which third parties participate in the financing of the production costs of a film in exchange for a partial copyright interest. We believe such arrangements may improve our investment returns and reduce our economic risk on a particular film. The Separation from CBS Corporation On December 31, 2005, we became a stand alone public company in connection with our separation from CBS Corporation. In connection with the separation, each share of Former Viacom Class A common stock was converted into the right to receive 0.5 of a share of Viacom Class A common stock and 0.5 of a share of CBS Corporation Class A common stock. Similarly, each share of Former Viacom Class B common stock was converted into the right to receive 0.5 of a share of Viacom Class B common stock and 0.5 of a share of CBS Corporation Class B common stock. Holders of Viacom Class A and Class B common stock received cash in lieu of fractional shares. In connection with the separation, we and CBS Corporation entered into the Separation Agreement as well as certain other agreements to govern the terms of the separation and certain of the ongoing relationships between CBS Corporation and us after the separation. These agreements include a Transition Services Agreement and a Tax Matters Agreement. These related party arrangements are more fully described below and in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. The Separation Agreement provided that we were responsible for the first $195.0 million in costs directly related to the separation with amounts incurred in excess of $195.0 million being split equally between us and CBS Corporation. Included as a component of Selling, general and administrative expenses in our Consolidated Statement of Earnings is $163.5 million of transaction costs for the year ended December 31, 2005. Such amounts principally included severance amounts, expenditures on information systems and investment banking and other professional fees. Special Dividend to Former Viacom In accordance with the terms of the Separation Agreement, in December 2005 we paid a preliminary special dividend to Former Viacom of $5.40 billion which was subject to adjustments for, among other items, actual Former Viacom debt as of the date of the separation and actual CBS Corporation cash flow for 2005, compared to estimates used to calculate the preliminary special dividend. In 2006 and 2007 we made further payments of $206.1 million and $170.0 million, respectively, to CBS Corporation in final resolution of the adjustments. Basis of Presentation The consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006 reflect our actual results of operations, financial position and cash flows. The consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2005 are presented on a carve out basis and reflect the results of operations, financial position and cash flows of our businesses when they were a part of Former Viacom. The consolidated financial results for 2005 may not necessarily reflect what our results of operations, financial position and cash flows would have been had we been a separate, stand alone company during the period. For example, the indebtedness of Former Viacom, other than capital lease obligations, was not assumed by us; therefore, debt service cost is not reflected in our Consolidated Statement of Earnings for the period ended December 31, 2005. 38 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) The Consolidated Statement of Earnings for the year ended December 31, 2005 includes allocations of Former Viacom corporate expenses and Paramount corporate overhead including accounting, treasury, tax, legal, human resources, information systems and other services, as well as depreciation and amortization on allocated costs, to reflect our utilization of such shared services and assets. Total corporate costs allocated to us, excluding separation costs described above, were $162.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005 and were primarily included in selling, general and administrative expenses in the accompanying Consolidated Statements of Earnings. Management believes the methodologies used to allocate charges for the services described above are reasonable. The assets and liabilities of Former Viacom assigned to us pursuant to the terms of the Separation Agreement are accounted for at the historical book values of such assets and liabilities. As noted previously, the indebtedness of Former Viacom, other than certain capital lease obligations, was not transferred to us. Prior to the separation, Former Viacom centrally managed the cash flows generated from our various businesses. Discontinued Operations Discontinued operations for 2007 principally relate to the sale of Famous Music. Famous Music and Famous Players, a Canadian based theater chain sold in 2005, have been reported as discontinued operations for all periods presented. Also included in discontinued operations is the release of tax reserves resulting from audit settlements related to discontinued businesses, including Blockbuster Inc., which was split off from Former Viacom in 2004. CONSOLIDATED RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Our summary consolidated results of operations are presented below for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005. The year ended December 31, 2005 is presented on a carve out basis. Year Ended December 31, Better/(Worse) (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2007 v.2006 2006 v.2005 Revenues $ 13,423.1 $ 11,361.1 $ 9,519.5 18 % 19 % Expenses: Operating 7,430.7 5,963.2 4,669.5 (25 ) (28 ) Selling, general and administrative 2,664.1 2,266.1 2,235.2 (18 ) (1 ) Depreciation and amortization 392.6 365.2 256.1 (8 ) (43 ) Total expenses 10,487.4 8,594.5 7,160.8 (22 ) (20 ) Operating income 2,935.7 2,766.6 2,358.7 6 17 Interest expense, net (464.1 ) (442.2 ) (18.1 ) (5 ) NM Gain on sale of equity investment 151.0 NM Other items, net (43.4 ) (14.0 ) (28.5 ) NM 51 Earnings from continuing operations 2,579.2 2,310.4 2,312.1 12 NM Provision for income taxes (929.0 ) (736.9 ) (1,018.1 ) (26 ) 28 Equity in earnings of affiliated companies, net of tax 0.2 7.3 9.4 (97 ) (22 ) Minority interest, net of tax (20.2 ) (14.0 ) (3.8 ) (44 ) NM Net earnings from continuing operations 1,630.2 1,566.8 1,299.6 4 21 Discontinued operations, net of tax 207.9 25.3 (42.7 ) NM NM Net earnings $ 1,838.1 $ 1,592.1 $ 1,256.9 15 % 27 % NM not meaningful 39 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Revenues Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased $2.06 billion, or 18%, to $13.42 billion. Media Networks segment revenues increased $860.5 million, or 12%, to $8.10 billion. Net acquisitions (defined as acquisitions net of dispositions) in our Media Networks segment contributed net incremental revenues of $91.5 million. A detailed description of the 2006 and 2007 transactions included in net acquisitions is contained in the Media Networks segment section. Filmed Entertainment segment revenues increased $1.20 billion, or 28%, to $5.48 billion, including $100.5 million in incremental revenues for the month of January 2007 from the acquisition of DreamWorks, which closed on January 31, 2006. Revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006 increased $1.84 billion, or 19%, to $11.36 billion compared to 2005. Media Networks segment revenues increased $483.1 million, or 7%, to $7.24 billion. Acquisitions completed by the Media Networks segment in 2006 contributed $125.3 million to revenues. Filmed Entertainment segment revenues increased $1.37 billion, or 47%, to $4.27 billion compared to 2005. The acquisition of DreamWorks and related distribution activities for DreamWorks Animation and the live action library contributed $1.36 billion to 2006 revenues, accounting for the significant increase in revenues as compared to 2005. Additional factors contributing to revenue growth are discussed in greater detail within the section Segment Results of Operations. The following tables present our revenues by component in both total dollar values and as a percentage of total revenues: Year Ended December 31, Better/(Worse) Revenues by Component (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2007 v.2006 2006 v.2005 Advertising $ 4,598.1 $ 4,272.1 $ 3,997.5 8 % 7 % Feature film 5,205.6 4,052.1 2,873.4 28 41 Affiliate fees 2,339.2 2,049.9 1,839.8 14 11 Ancillary 1,280.2 987.0 808.8 30 22 Total revenues by component $ 13,423.1 $ 11,361.1 $ 9,519.5 18 % 19 % Percentage of Revenues by Component Year Ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 Advertising 34 % 38 % 42 % Feature film 39 36 30 Affiliate fees 17 18 19 Ancillary 10 8 9 100 % 100 % 100 % We generated 27% of our total consolidated revenues from international markets in 2007 as compared to 24% and 22% in 2006 and 2005, respectively. International net acquisitions by the Media Networks segment contributed $5.0 million and $77.4 million of incremental revenue during 2007 and 2006, respectively, principally in Europe. Our principal international businesses are in Europe, of which the United Kingdom and Germany accounted for approximately 49%, 54%, and 64% of total European revenues for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. 40 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Year Ended December 31, Percent of Total Revenues by Geographic Area (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2007 2006 2005 United States $ 9,743.2 $ 8,641.3 $ 7,415.6 73 % 76 % 78 % Europe 2,319.4 1,700.3 1,243.7 17 15 13 All other 1,360.5 1,019.5 860.2 10 9 9 Total revenues by geographic area $ 13,423.1 $ 11,361.1 $ 9,519.5 100 % 100 % 100 % Expenses and Operating Income Operating Expenses Operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased $1.47 billion, or 25%, to $7.43 billion. For the year ended December 31, 2006, operating expenses increased $1.29 billion, or 28%, compared to 2005. Production and programming expenditures increased 17%, or $675.6 million, for the year ended December 31, 2007, to $4.57 billion principally driven by increased film amortization in our Filmed Entertainment segment. The increase in feature film amortization was primarily attributable to the release of Shrek the Third and Transformers and the number and timing of other theatrical releases. Programming costs, the largest operating expense of our Media Networks segment, also increased, primarily as a result of continued investment in original and acquired programming. Production and programming expenditures increased 23%, or $735.7 million, for the year ended December 31, 2006, to $3.90 billion principally driven by increased film amortization in our Filmed Entertainment segment and an increase in total program amortization in our Media Networks segment. The increase in film amortization is due to the amount, timing and mix of film releases, which was driven in part by the acquisition of DreamWorks partially offset by the 2005 charge of $31.6 million for abandonment of certain projects in development. Distribution expenses increased $827.1 million, or 45%, for the year ended December 31, 2007, to $2.66 billion, primarily due to higher print and advertising expenditures in our Filmed Entertainment segment reflecting the increased number of theatrical and home entertainment releases during the year, including Shrek the Third and Transformers, and timing of those releases. In addition, a full year of operating activity from DreamWorks and the related distribution activities for DreamWorks Animation and DW Funding added to distribution expenses for the period. For films we distribute on behalf of DreamWorks Animation and DW Funding, we expense print and advertising costs as incurred and typically recover such costs following the theatrical release. Increased distribution expenses in our Media Networks segment reflect costs associated with the release of Rock Band and increased home entertainment distribution costs. Distribution expenses increased $539.6 million, or 42%, for the year ended December 31, 2006, to $1.83 billion, reflecting higher print and advertising expenditures in our Filmed Entertainment segment as a result of the number and timing of our theatrical releases and the commencement of distribution activities for DreamWorks Animation and live action film library productions. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general and administrative expenses were up 18%, or $398.0 million, for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared with the year ended December 31, 2006, primarily due to higher employee compensation expense, including cash and equity based incentive compensation, the full year impact of net acquisitions, the impact of foreign exchange, increased legal fees and bad debt expenses, and costs associated with new business 41 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) initiatives. Incremental restructuring charges of $62.8 million related to restructuring actions at MTVN were substantially offset by the impact of the $73.3 million net compensation charge taken in 2006 in connection with executive management changes. Selling, general and administrative expenses were up 1%, or $30.9 million, for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared with the year ended December 31, 2005. This increase was due to incremental equity based compensation expense of $52.0 million, as a result of the adoption of a new accounting standard on equity compensation on a modified prospective basis and net charges associated with executive management changes of $73.3 million, including $11.5 million of equity based compensation related to the resignation of the former President and Chief Executive Officer and former Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, partially offset by an amendment to the employment agreement with our Executive Chairman and Founder. Additionally, selling, general and administrative expenses increased in 2006 compared to 2005 primarily due to the consolidation of entities previously accounted for as equity investments. These increases were partially offset by nonrecurring 2005 separation related charges of $163.5 million and severance expenses of $70.5 million, incurred principally during the fourth quarter of 2005. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization expense increased $27.4 million, or 8%, for the year ended December 31, 2007 principally as a result of an increase in depreciation on current year fixed asset additions. Additionally, we experienced an increase in intangible asset amortization expense resulting from a full year of amortization on 2006 acquisitions, particularly DreamWorks by the Filmed Entertainment segment. Depreciation and amortization expense increased $109.1 million, or 43%, for the year ended December 31, 2006 compared with 2005, principally as the result of increased intangible asset amortization expense resulting from 2006 acquisitions in both segments including DreamWorks intangible asset amortization of $43.5 million, 2006 digital media acquisitions of $16.3 million and higher full year amortization related to 2005 acquisitions. Each component of expense is discussed in greater detail within the section Segment Results of Operations. Operating Income Operating income increased 6%, or $169.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 to $2.94 billion. Media Networks operating income increased 5% or $143.6 million with the 12% increase in revenues partially offset by a 17% growth in expenses, principally compensation related costs, including restructuring charges of $77.5 million in 2007 versus $14.7 million in 2006, programming costs and costs associated with Rock Band. Filmed Entertainment operating income decreased by $28.4 million, or 22%, principally due to higher distribution related costs, principally print and advertising, and higher feature film amortization related to a greater number of film releases during the year, as well as costs associated with new business initiatives. The increase in Filmed Entertainment expenses was partially offset by increased revenues on certain 2007 releases, in particular Transformers and Shrek the Third, and revenues from prior year releases. Corporate expenses declined $50.2 million largely due to the net compensation charge of $73.3 million recorded in 2006, partially offset by increased equity compensation and legal expenses. Operating income increased 17%, or $407.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2006 to $2.77 billion compared with 2005. The Media Networks segment operating income increased 11% or $294.2 million, principally as a result of increased revenues and lower variable compensation and severance expenses. Filmed Entertainment segment operating income increased $69.5 million principally due to increased profitability of the 2006 film slate compared to the 2005 slate, additional third party distribution arrangements, lower development costs as well as $31.6 million in charges related to the abandonment of certain projects in development taken in 2005. Corporate expenses declined $38.6 million as increases related to executive management changes, as previously discussed, and general overhead increases were more than offset by the reduction in separation costs. 42 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Interest Expense, Net Interest expense, net includes costs related to our senior notes and debentures, credit facilities, note payable, commercial paper, capital lease obligations and amounts associated with our derivative financial instruments. For 2007, interest expense, net increased $21.9 million from the prior year due to an increase in interest rates reflecting the impact of the fixed rate debt issuances during 2006 and 2007, which more than offset the decrease in average debt outstanding. See the Liquidity and Capital Resources section for additional information on our outstanding indebtedness. The decrease in average debt outstanding resulted principally from the use of cash flow provided by operations and proceeds received from dispositions during 2007 of $555.2 million to repay indebtedness. For the year ended December 31, 2006, interest expense, net increased $424.1 million as compared to 2005 principally due to higher average debt outstanding and higher interest rates in 2006. The higher average debt outstanding primarily is a result of the timing related to funding the special dividend payments to CBS Corporation made in connection with the separation, the purchase of DreamWorks, the various acquisitions of our Media Networks segment and the purchase of common stock under our stock repurchase program. Gain on Sale of Equity Investment In 2007, we sold our non controlling investment in MTV Russia for $191.1 million and recognized a pre tax gain on the sale of $151.0 million. Other Items, Net Other items, net for the year ended December 31, 2007 reflected net expenses of $43.4 million principally arising from losses on securitization programs as well as a $36.0 million impairment charge related to the bankruptcy filing of Ampd Mobile, partially offset by foreign exchange gains. For 2006, other items, net reflected a loss of $14.0 million which was a $14.5 million, or 51%, improvement over 2005. This improvement was principally a result of increased transactional foreign exchange gains partially offset by increased losses on securitization programs. Provision for Income Taxes For 2007, we recorded income tax expense of $929.0 million on pretax earnings of $2.58 billion resulting in an effective tax rate of 36.0% compared to 31.9% in 2006. The increase in our effective tax rate over the year ended December 31, 2006 is principally due to $15.0 million, or 0.6 percentage points of discrete tax benefits recognized in 2007 versus $141.8 million, or 6.1 percentage points, in 2006. The discrete tax benefits in both years were principally the result of audit settlements. Excluding the impact of the discrete tax benefits, the reduction in the effective tax rate is principally due to incremental tax benefits associated with qualified production activities, a higher mix of international profits in markets where income is taxed at rates lower than the U.S. statutory rate and lower state taxes. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we recorded income tax expense of $736.9 million on pretax earnings of $2.31 billion resulting in an effective tax rate of 31.9%, inclusive of the discrete tax benefits. Our effective tax rate in 2005 was 44.0% principally reflecting the effect of non deductible separation related expenses included in the total separation costs of $163.5 million. Equity in Earnings of Affiliated Companies, Net of Tax Equity in earnings of affiliated companies, net of tax was $0.2 million and $7.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. In the third quarter of 2007, we began recognizing our share of the losses from Rhapsody America. 43 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Equity in earnings of affiliated companies, net of tax declined $2.1 million in 2006 as compared to December 31, 2005 as increased equity earnings generally attributable to our Media Network affiliates was offset principally by the impact of consolidating Nick UK which was previously accounted for on the equity basis of accounting prior to the acquisition of an incremental ownership interest in June 2006 which allows us to control the entity. Minority Interest, Net of Tax Minority interest expense, net of tax, which represents ownership held by third parties of certain consolidated entities, was $20.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 as compared to $14.0 million and $3.8 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increase in expense is primarily attributable to the consolidation of Nick UK and MTV Japan, as well as normal operating increases. Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax Earnings from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2007 principally reflect a gain recorded in connection with the sale of Famous Music. Famous Music and Famous Players, a Canadian based theater chain disposed of in 2005, have been reported as discontinued operations in the consolidated financial statements for all periods presented. For the year ended December 31, 2006, discontinued operations include the release of tax reserves resulting from audit settlements related to discontinued businesses, including Blockbuster Inc. which was split off from Former Viacom in 2004. 44 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) SEGMENT RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table presents segment revenues, expenses and operating income for the three years ended December 31, 2007. Operating income is used as the measurement of segment operating performance. Transactions between reportable segments are accounted for as third party arrangements for the purposes of presenting reportable segment results of operations. Typical intersegment transactions include the purchase of advertising by the Filmed Entertainment segment on Media Networks segment properties and the purchase of the Filmed Entertainment segments feature films exhibition rights by the Media Networks segment. The elimination of such intercompany transactions from the consolidated results of operations is included within Eliminations in the table below. Certain amounts in 2005 and 2006 have been reclassified to conform to the 2007 presentation. Year Ended December 31, Better/(Worse) (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2007 v. 2006 2006 v. 2005 Revenues Media Networks $ 8,101.4 $ 7,240.9 $ 6,757.8 12 % 7 % Filmed Entertainment 5,475.6 4,273.8 2,905.2 28 47 Eliminations (153.9 ) (153.6 ) (143.5 ) NM (7 ) Total revenues $ 13,423.1 $ 11,361.1 $ 9,519.5 18 % 19 % Expenses Media Networks $ 5,053.5 $ 4,336.6 $ 4,147.7 (17 )% (5 )% Filmed Entertainment 5,372.1 4,141.9 2,842.8 (30 ) (46 ) Total segment expenses 10,425.6 8,478.5 6,990.5 (23 ) (21 ) Corporate 219.7 269.9 308.5 19 13 Eliminations (157.9 ) (153.9 ) (138.2 ) 3 11 Total expenses $ 10,487.4 $ 8,594.5 $ 7,160.8 (22 )% (20 )% Operating income Media Networks $ 3,047.9 $ 2,904.3 $ 2,610.1 5 % 11 % Filmed Entertainment 103.5 131.9 62.4 (22 ) NM Total segment operating income 3,151.4 3,036.2 2,672.5 4 14 Corporate expenses (219.7 ) (269.9 ) (308.5 ) 19 13 Eliminations 4.0 0.3 (5.3 ) NM NM Total operating income $ 2,935.7 $ 2,766.6 $ 2,358.7 6 % 17 % NM not meaningful 45 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Media Networks Worldwide revenues increased $860.5 million, or 12%, in 2007 to $8.10 billion, led by an 8% increase in advertising revenues. Affiliate fees and ancillary revenues were up 14% and 27%, respectively. Net acquisitions, as further discussed below, contributed $91.5 million to revenue growth. Year Ended December 31, Better/(Worse) Revenues by Component (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2007 v.2006 2006 v.2005 Advertising $ 4,690.3 $ 4,346.2 $ 4,069.4 8 % 7 % Affiliate fees 2,339.2 2,049.9 1,839.8 14 11 Ancillary 1,071.9 844.8 848.6 27 NM Total revenues by component $ 8,101.4 $ 7,240.9 $ 6,757.8 12 % 7 % NM not meaningful Year Ended December 31, Better/(Worse) Revenues by Geographic area (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2007 v. 2006 2006 v. 2005 Domestic $ 6,852.7 $ 6,182.5 $ 5,789.6 11 % 7 % International 1,248.7 1,058.4 968.2 18 9 Total revenues by geographic area $ 8,101.4 $ 7,240.9 $ 6,757.8 12 % 7 % During 2007, we invested $14.5 million in acquisitions, none of which had a significant impact on 2007 operating results. We made several acquisitions during 2006 that contributed to segment revenues and operating income in 2007, including Harmonix Music Systems, Inc. (Harmonix), the developer of Guitar Hero and Rock Band and other music gaming titles, in October 2006, and Atom Entertainment, Inc., which owned a portfolio of online destinations for casual games, short films and animation, in September 2006. Additional acquisitions completed during 2006 included Quizilla, LLC, Y2M: Youth Media & Marketing, Xfire, Inc. and Caballero Television. During 2006, we also acquired controlling interests in entities previously accounted for under the equity method of accounting. In November 2006, we completed the acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in MTV Poland. In September 2006, we acquired the remaining 63.8% interest in MTV Japan. In August 2006, we acquired the remaining 58% interest of BET Interactive, the owner of BET.com. In June 2006, we acquired an additional 10% interest in Nick UK. Previously, Nick UK was a fifty fifty joint venture with BSkyB. The results of these entities have been consolidated since the closing date of the transactions (the international consolidations). Further, in the fourth quarter of 2006 we disposed of an international production operation. The transactions discussed above (the net acquisitions) impact the comparability of our results over the periods presented and contributed $91.5 million of net revenue growth in 2007. Therefore, the impact of net acquisitions is referenced throughout the discussion. Net acquisition impact represents amounts included in reported results for which the acquired or disposed entity was not also consolidated in the comparable period. 46 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Advertising Worldwide advertising revenues were up 8% to $4.69 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007. Net acquisitions contributed 1% percentage point of reported growth. Domestic advertising revenues increased 6% versus 2006 driven by Spike TV, VH1, MTV, COMEDY CENTRAL and digital properties. International advertising revenues increased 23% primarily due to the full year impact of the 2006 acquisitions of controlling interests in Nick UK, MTV Japan and MTV Poland. In addition, international revenues benefited from strong European performance, driven by monetization of ratings strength, and foreign currency benefits, which contributed 9 percentage points of international growth, partially offset by declines in Southeast Asia due to the licensing of certain previously owned and operated channels. Worldwide advertising revenues were up 7% to $4.35 billion in 2006, with domestic revenue up 7% and international revenue up 8% versus 2005. Domestic growth was driven by COMEDY CENTRAL, Spike TV, BET, Nickelodeon and digital media. The 7% year over year increase was a deceleration in the rate of domestic advertising revenue growth as compared to 2005 and substantially reflects a weaker audience rating performance across our domestic channels. Rating performance is a key driver in our ability to grow advertising revenues. International advertising revenues were up in Europe driven by the consolidation of Nick UK beginning in June, while acquisitions in total contributed $75.4 million to advertising revenues for the year ended December 31, 2006. Affiliate Fees Worldwide affiliate fees increased 14% to $2.34 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007. The full year impact of international consolidations contributed 2 percentage points of total reported growth. Domestic affiliate fees grew 11% principally as a result of higher rates. International affiliate fees increased 30% driven principally by the consolidation of Nick UK, MTV Japan and MTV Poland, foreign exchange benefits of 8 percentage points, new channel launches and subscriber growth in certain European markets. Worldwide affiliate fees increased 11% to $2.05 billion in 2006, with domestic fees up 9% and international fees up 24% versus 2005. Acquisitions contributed $33.4 million to 2006 revenues, primarily in Europe and Japan. Rate increases, principally at MTV and Nickelodeon as well as subscriber increases at various channels including MTV2, VH1 Pure Country, Logo and Tempo and several Nickelodeon channels including Noggin, Nick Too and Nick Games & Sports drove the year over year growth. International revenue growth was driven by channel launches in France and by subscriber growth in Latin America among other markets. Ancillary Worldwide ancillary revenues increased 27% for the year ended December 31, 2007 to $1.07 billion. Domestic ancillary revenues for the year were up 42% driven by sales of the Rock Band video game released in the fourth quarter of 2007, royalties earned on video games, including the Guitar Hero series, higher digital revenues and increased television license fees. These increases were partially offset by lower home video revenues due to a lower number of video releases. In 2006, home video revenues benefited from the release of Chappelles Show: The Lost Episodes. International ancillary revenues decreased 4% during the year principally due to the fourth quarter 2006 disposition of an international production operation partially offset by higher consumer products licensing and the contribution of the international consolidations. Foreign exchange contributed 3 percentage points of international growth. Worldwide ancillary revenues were essentially flat in 2006 at $844.8 million as compared to 2005. Increases in consumer products licensing fees, primarily for Dora the Explorer, were largely offset by lower home entertainment revenues impacted by the mix and number of home video releases, and unfavorable comparison to Chappelles Show: Season 2 released in 2005. Syndication fees also declined slightly due to lower South Park syndication fees in 2006. Domestic revenues remained flat while international revenues declined slightly. Acquisitions, principally Harmonix and Atom Entertainment, contributed $16.5 million to total ancillary revenue in 2006. 47 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Expenses and Operating Income Media Networks segment expenses consist of operating expenses, selling, general and administrative expenses and depreciation and amortization. Operating expenses are comprised of costs related to original and acquired programming, including programming amortization, expenses associated with the distribution of home entertainment products, including video games, and consumer products licensing and participation fees. Selling, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of employee compensation, marketing, professional service fees and facility and occupancy costs. Depreciation and amortization expenses reflect depreciation on fixed assets, including transponders financed under capital leases, and amortization of finite lived intangible assets. Year Ended December 31, Better/(Worse) Expenses and Operating Income (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2007 v.2006 2006 v.2005 Expenses Operating $ 2,762.6 $ 2,457.5 $ 2,309.6 (12 )% (6 )% Selling, general and administrative 2,014.8 1,609.1 1,607.3 (25 ) NM Depreciation and amortization 276.1 270.0 230.8 (2 ) (17 ) Total expenses $ 5,053.5 $ 4,336.6 $ 4,147.7 (17 )% (5 )% Operating income $ 3,047.9 $ 2,904.3 $ 2,610.1 5 % 11 % NM not meaningful Operating Expenses For the year ended December 31, 2007, total operating expenses increased $305.1 million due primarily to an increase in distribution expenses, including costs related to Rock Band, which was released in the fourth quarter of 2007 and increased production and programming costs, principally programming amortization. The increase in programming amortization reflects both acquired programming, particularly on Spike TV and Nick at Nite, and original programming, particularly on MTV. In 2006, operating expenses increased $147.9 million compared with 2005, as production costs including programming and distribution expenses increased in line with revenue growth. Program and production costs increased 8%, driven principally by original programming for several shows including The Colbert Report, The Daily Show and Making the Band. In addition, BET began increasing its investment in original programming in 2006. Amortization of acquired programming increased across most channels in line with revenue increases, particularly COMEDY CENTRAL, Nick Digital and Nick at Nite. Increases in consumer products related costs were in line with revenue increases and reflected higher participation costs. Operating expenses increased in international markets, reflecting the impact of entity consolidations and higher program and production costs. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses For the year ended December 31, 2007, selling, general and administrative expenses increased $405.7 million to $2.01 billion primarily due to increased employee compensation costs, including incentive compensation, incremental restructuring charges of $62.8 million, the impact of foreign exchange, higher facilities costs, the full year impact of net acquisitions, increases in legal expenses and bad debt expenses and the impact of the 2006 gain resulting from the sale of distribution rights in Europe. In 2006, selling, general and administrative expenses increased $1.8 million as compared with 2005. Compensation expenses in 2006 reflect incremental stock based compensation costs of $20.1 million resulting from the adoption of a new accounting standard. Selling, general and administrative costs also increased in 2006 related to acquisitions including acquiring controlling interest in entities previously accounted for as equity investments. These increases were offset by lower severance and variable compensation expenses and $27.3 million from sales of certain distribution rights in two European markets in 2006. 48 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization increased $6.1 million and $39.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, principally due to the amortization of intangibles associated with 2006 acquisitions. The increase in 2006 was also due to increased depreciation related to additional transponders utilized by MTV Europe. Operating Income Operating income grew 5% to $3.05 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007 compared to the prior year due to a 12% increase in revenues partially offset by a 17% increase in expenses, including restructuring charges of $77.5 million in 2007 versus $14.7 million in 2006. Net acquisitions contributed $11.0 million to operating income, primarily due to the acquisition of Harmonix and the consolidation of Nick UK partially offset by the disposition of an international production operation in 2006. Operating income increased 11%, or $294.2 million, as compared with 2005, to $2.90 billion in 2006, as a result of incremental revenues of $483.1 million partially offset by higher operating expenses and incremental depreciation and amortization. Net acquisitions contributed $13.6 million to operating income, principally due to the consolidation of Nick UK. Filmed Entertainment The results of operations of our Filmed Entertainment segment are subject to fluctuations due to various factors, including the publics response to our theatrical films and DVD releases, the number, timing and availability of releases and the amount and timing of print and advertising spending for films. In addition, the January 31, 2006 acquisition of DreamWorks and the commencement of distribution activities for DreamWorks Animation and live action library films impact the comparability of our results over the periods presented. Worldwide revenues increased $1.20 billion, or 28% in 2007 to $5.48 billion. The increase in 2007 is primarily due to the number and mix of releases, including the performance of Transformers and Shrek the Third, both released in 2007. The remaining increase is driven by the acquisition of DreamWorks and the related DWA agreements, contributing incremental revenues of $100.5 million in January 2007. In 2006, the DreamWorks acquisition contributed revenues of $1.36 billion, accounting for almost all of the segments revenue growth compared to 2005. Results of operations for DreamWorks have been included in the Filmed Entertainment segment beginning February 1, 2006. Year Ended December 31, Better/(Worse) Revenues by Component (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2007 v.2006 2006 v.2005 Home entertainment $ 2,493.3 $ 2,115.9 $ 1,555.5 18 % 36 % Television license fees 1,294.3 1,121.4 650.8 15 72 Theatrical 1,466.2 866.1 643.7 69 35 Ancillary 221.8 170.4 55.2 30 NM Total revenues by component $ 5,475.6 $ 4,273.8 $ 2,905.2 28 % 47 % 49 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Year Ended December 31, Better/(Worse) Revenues by Geographic area (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2007 v.2006 2006 v.2005 Domestic $ 3,044.4 $ 2,612.4 $ 1,769.5 17 % 48 % International 2,431.2 1,661.4 1,135.7 46 46 Total revenues by geographic area $ 5,475.6 $ 4,273.8 $ 2,905.2 28 % 47 % Theatrical Worldwide theatrical revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased $600.1 million, or 69%, to $1.47 billion. We released twenty six films during 2007 compared to nineteen films in 2006. Domestic revenues increased $271.3 million primarily due to the number and mix of theatrical releases, particularly the performance of Transformers released in 2007 compared to Mission: Impossible III in 2006. Distribution of DreamWorks Animations Shrek the Third and Bee Movie contributed incremental revenues of $117.7 million compared to Over the Hedge and Flushed Away distributed in 2006. International revenues increased $328.8 million due principally to our release of Transformers and distribution of Shrek the Third which contributed a combined $197.3 million of incremental revenues over 2006 releases Mission: Impossible III and Over the Hedge. Worldwide theatrical revenues increased $222.4 million in 2006 as compared with 2005, with our distribution of DreamWorks Animation films contributing $296.1 million and other theatrical revenues declining $73.7 million. Domestic revenues increased $76.7 million, of which $142.2 million was attributable to DreamWorks and DreamWorks Animation films, offset by a decline in other theatrical revenues, principally due to the performance of Mission: Impossible III released in 2006 compared to War of the Worlds in 2005. In international markets, theatrical revenues increased $145.7 million, with $153.9 million due to our distribution of DreamWorks Animation films, including Over the Hedge and Flushed Away, as well as Munich which was released in 2005. 50 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) The table below lists theatrical releases by title, by year, sorted by release date, for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. 2007 2006 First Quarter Releases Freedom Writers (Jan) Last Holiday (Jan) Norbit (Feb) Neil Young Heart of Gold (Feb) Reno 911: Miami (Feb) Failure to Launch (Mar) Black Snake Moan (Mar) Ask the Dust (Mar) Zodiac (Mar) Shes the Man (Mar) Shooter (Mar) Blades of Glory (Mar) Second Quarter Releases Disturbia (Apr) Mission: Impossible III (May) Year of the Dog (Apr) An Inconvenient Truth (May) Next (Apr) Nacho Libre (Jun) A Mighty Heart (Jun) Third Quarter Releases Transformers (Jul) Barnyard (Aug) Arctic Tale (Jul) World Trade Center (Aug) Hot Rod (Aug) Last Kiss (Sep) Stardust (Aug) jackass: number two (Sep) Into the Wild (Sep) Fourth Quarter Releases The Heartbreak Kid (Oct) Flags of Our Fathers (Oct) Things We Lost in the Fire (Oct) Babel (Oct) Beowulf (Nov) Charlottes Web (Dec) Margot at the Wedding (Nov) Dreamgirls (Dec) Kite Runner (Dec) Perfume (Dec) Sweeney Todd: The Demon Barber of Fleet Street (Dec) There Will Be Blood (Dec) No Country for Old Men (Dec) DreamWorks Animation Releases Shrek the Third (May) Over the Hedge (May) Bee Movie (Nov) Flushed Away (Nov) 51 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Home Entertainment Worldwide home entertainment revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased $377.4 million, or 18%, to $2.49 billion. Domestic home entertainment revenues increased $65.7 million to $1.47 billion due primarily to higher revenues on current year releases, including Transformers and DreamWorks Animations Shrek the Third, as well as a year over year increase in titles released, partially offset by lower revenues generated from prior year releases and catalog revenues. International home entertainment revenues increased $311.7 million to $1.02 billion, also reflecting the performance of Transformers and Shrek the Third and higher revenues from prior year releases, including Flushed Away and World Trade Center. Worldwide home entertainment revenues increased 36%, or $560.4 million, in 2006 as compared with 2005, with DreamWorks and the related DWA agreements contributing $579.7 million, offset by a slight decline in other titles. Domestic home entertainment revenues increased $441.3 million, or 46%, with DreamWorks and the related DWA agreements contributing $379.5 million. Our 2006 domestic releases and DreamWorks Animations Over the Hedge generated higher revenues than our 2005 domestic releases. International home entertainment revenues increased $119.1 million, with DreamWorks and the related DWA agreements contributing $200.2 million partially offset by a decline in other titles resulting from the timing and mix of available titles. Television License Fees Worldwide television license fees for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased $172.9 million, or 15%, to $1.29 billion. The DreamWorks acquisition contributed $30.9 million of incremental revenue in January 2007. The remaining increase is primarily attributable to an increase in international syndicated license fees and networks license fees, partially offset by a decline in pay television revenues. These fluctuations were due to the timing and mix of products available. Worldwide television license fees increased $470.6 million in 2006 as compared with 2005, with DreamWorks and the related DWA agreements contributing $469.1 million. Domestically, television license fees increased $231.0 million, with $244.4 million from DreamWorks and the related DWA agreements. International television license fees increased $239.6 million, of which $224.8 million was attributable to DreamWorks and the related DWA agreements. Ancillary Ancillary revenues for the year ended December 31, 2007 increased $51.4 million, or 30%, to $221.8 million primarily due to higher licensing and merchandising revenues, principally related to Transformers, and higher digital revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2006, ancillary revenues increased $115.2 million to $170.4 million as compared with 2005, principally due to higher studio rental income and licensing and merchandising revenues. 52 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Expenses and Operating Income Filmed Entertainment segment expenses consist of operating expenses, selling, general and administrative expenses and depreciation and amortization. Operating expenses principally include the amortization of production costs of our released feature films, print and advertising expenses and other distribution costs. Selling, general and administrative expenses include employee compensation costs, facility and occupancy costs, professional service fees and other overhead costs. Depreciation and amortization expense includes depreciation of fixed assets and amortization of acquired intangibles, including acquired distribution rights, principally associated with the DreamWorks acquisition. Year Ended December 31, Better/(Worse) (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 2007 v.2006 2006 v.2005 Expenses Operating $ 4,826.0 $ 3,659.6 $ 2,556.4 (32 )% (43 )% Selling, general & administration 447.2 399.9 266.3 (12 ) (50 ) Depreciation & amortization 98.9 82.4 20.1 (20 ) NM Total expenses 5,372.1 4,141.9 2,842.8 (30 )% (46 )% Operating income $ 103.5 $ 131.9 $ 62.4 (22 )% NM NM not meaningful Operating Expenses Yearover year operating expenses are impacted by the timing, number and mix of film releases during a particular year. For the year ended December 31, 2007, operating expenses increased $1.17 billion or 32% to $4.83 billion. The increase principally reflects higher distribution related costs of $653.8 million primarily due to print and advertising costs, and higher feature film amortization expense of $517.7 million, primarily attributable to the release of Shrek the Third and Transformers, as well as the increased number of theatrical releases during the year and timing of those releases. In 2006, operating expenses increased $1.10 billion as compared with 2005, with DreamWorks and related distribution activities contributing $1.35 billion of the increase offset by a year over year decrease in exhibition costs. Incremental film amortization expense contributed $570.1 million as compared to 2005, primarily due to DreamWorks and the related DWA agreements, as well as mix and number of other titles released in 2006. Distribution costs increased $492.5 million as compared to 2005 primarily as a result of increased print and advertising costs, driven by the number and timing of releases and DreamWorks and the related DWA agreements. In 2005, operating expenses also included a $31.6 million charge related to the abandonment of development projects started by prior management. Selling, General and Administrative Expenses Selling, general & administrative expenses increased $47.3 million in 2007 primarily attributable to costs associated with new business initiatives. In 2006, selling, general & administrative costs increased $133.6 million as compared with 2005, primarily due to the integration of DreamWorks, partially offset by lower severance charges. Selling, general & administrative costs in 2005 also included severance charges of $22.6 million incurred to adjust Paramounts overhead structure upon the separation from CBS Corporation. Depreciation and Amortization Expense Depreciation and amortization increased by $16.5 million and $62.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The increase in 2007 resulted from a full year of amortization attributable to the acquisition of DreamWorks and higher depreciation of fixed assets. The increase in 2006 principally resulted from amortization attributable to the acquisition of DreamWorks. 53 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Operating Income Operating income decreased by $28.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2007 principally due to higher distribution related costs, principally print and advertising and higher feature film amortization related to a greater number of film releases during the year, as well as costs associated with new business initiatives. The increase in expenses in 2007 was partially offset by increased revenues on certain 2007 releases, in particular Transformers and Shrek the Third, and revenues from prior year releases. For 2006, operating income increased $69.5 million over 2005 as result of improved film performance and the mix and timing of films in theatrical, home entertainment and television markets. In addition, 2005 included a $31.6 million charge related to the abandonment of development projects started by prior management and severance costs of $22.6 million incurred to adjust Paramounts overhead structure as a result of the separation from CBS Corporation. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity Sources and Uses of Cash Our primary source of liquidity is cash provided through the operations of our businesses. These cash flows from operations, together with our access to the capital markets, provide us with adequate resources to fund our ongoing operations including investment in programming and film productions, distribution related costs, capital expenditures, investment in new projects, including digital media, share repurchases and acquisitions. Our principal uses of cash include the creation of new content, acquisitions of third party content, ongoing investments in our businesses, acquisitions of businesses, and share repurchases. We also use cash for interest and tax payments. We manage share repurchases and acquisitions with a goal of maintaining total debt levels within rating agency guidelines to maintain an investment grade credit rating. We may access external financing from time to time depending on our cash requirements, our assessments of current and anticipated market conditions and after tax cost of capital. Our access to capital markets can be impacted by factors outside our control. Additionally, our cost to borrow is affected by market conditions and short and long term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies, which are based on our performance as measured by certain credit metrics such as interest coverage and leverage ratios. The table below summarizes our credit ratings as of December 31, 2007: Long term Short term Outlook Moodys Investors Service Baa3 P 3 Stable Standard & Poors BBB A 2 Stable Fitch Ratings BBB F 2 Stable We believe that our investment grade credit rating will provide us with adequate access to capital markets given our expected cash needs. Our bank facilities are subject to one principal financial covenant, interest coverage, which we met on December 31, 2007. From time to time, we enter into film financing arrangements that involve the sale of a partial copyright interest in a film to third party investors. Since the investors have the risks and rewards of ownership proportionate to their ownership in the film, we record the amounts received for the sale of copyright interest as a reduction of the cost of the film and related cash flows are reflected in net cash flow from operating activities. 54 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Cash Flows Cash and cash equivalents increased by $214.4 million and $344.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. The change in cash and cash equivalents was attributable to the following: Cash Flows Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Net cash flow from operating activities $ 1,776.2 $ 2,269.9 $ 1,635.9 Net cash flow from (used in) investing activities 248.5 (932.9 ) (165.1 ) Net cash flow used in financing activities (1,831.4 ) (1,012.8 ) (1,251.2 ) Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents 21.1 20.5 (8.5 ) Increase in cash and cash equivalents $ 214.4 $ 344.7 $ 211.1 Operating Activities Cash provided by operating activities of $1.78 billion for the year ended December 31, 2007 decreased $493.7 million versus 2006. The net decrease was principally due to a decrease in cash flows from receivables, primarily attributable to the $500 million increase in our securitization facilities in 2006, higher investment in original and acquired programming, and an increase of $185.9 million in cash taxes paid, including taxes on gains of disposed operations, partially offset by increased net earnings from continuing operations. The Media Networks segment consistently generates a significant percentage of our cash flow from operating activities. Advertising time is generally purchased by large media buying agencies and our affiliate fees are principally earned from cable television operators with significant capital resources. We have payment terms of generally ninety days or less and our current days sales outstanding for the Media Networks segment, calculated as accounts receivable divided by net revenues, multiplied by 360, was 56.9 days for 2007, an improvement of 2.7 days as compared to 2006. We continue our focus on lowering our days sales outstanding. The Filmed Entertainment segments operational results and ability to generate cash flow from operations substantially depend on the number of films in development and production, the level and timing of print and advertising costs and the publics response to our theatrical film and home entertainment film releases. Cash provided by operating activities of $2.27 billion for the year ended December 31, 2006 increased $634.0 million versus 2005. The increase was principally attributable to improved cash flow from operations for each business segment, including new and increased capacity under our securitization facilities of $500.0 million and reduction in cash taxes paid of $322.6 million, partially offset by higher interest payments of $413.4 million compared to 2005. Investing Activities Cash provided by investing activities was $248.5 million in 2007 compared with cash used in investing activities of $932.9 million in 2006. In 2007, we sold Famous Music for $351.7 million and our non controlling interest in MTV Russia for $191.1 million. These amounts were offset by increased investments in equity affiliates of $46.8 million and higher capital expenditures of $28.4 million. In the future, we expect cash outflows related to our current equity investments will include payments made under a $205 million funding commitment to Viacom 18 and earn out payments on our Harmonix acquisition. In general, our segments require relatively low levels of capital expenditures in relation to our net cash flow generated annually from operations which contributes to our ability to generate cash flow for future investment in our content and business operations, which we expect to be able to maintain over time. 55 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Cash used for investing activities in 2006 of $932.9 million increased $767.8 million as compared to 2005. The significant increase is principally attributable to cash utilized for acquisitions, net of cash acquired, of $1.42 billion, including DreamWorks by our Filmed Entertainment segment and several acquisitions in digital media and similar properties including Harmonix, Atom Entertainment and Xfire by our Media Networks segment. We also acquired the additional interest in Nick UK and the remaining interest not previously owned of MTV Japan. Capital expenditures also increased $15.7 million. Sources of cash from investing activities principally included the proceeds from the sale of the live action library in May 2006 of $675.3 million. Financing Activities Cash used in 2007 for financing activities was $1.83 billion, including $2.13 billion of share repurchases. During 2007, we raised fixed rate debt of $744.6 million through the issuance of Senior Notes and Debentures and borrowed $750.0 million of bank debt under our revolving credit facility. These proceeds were used to repay $1.04 billion of commercial paper. Additionally, in 2007, we paid a final amount of $170.0 million related to the special dividend to CBS Corporation. Cash used for 2006 financing activities was $1.01 billion as compared to $1.25 billion for 2005. In 2006, we received proceeds of $6.16 billion from the issuance of senior notes and debentures with various durations, $1.09 billion of commercial paper that was principally utilized to pay down revolving credit facilities entered into as a result of the special dividend of $5.40 billion paid to CBS Corporation in December 2005; acquisitions, principally of DreamWorks; and $2.35 billion of share repurchases. In 2006, we paid an additional $206.1 million to CBS Corporation related to the special dividend and accrued an additional $170.0 million which was paid in the first quarter of 2007. We also paid down $659.5 million of acquired notes and preferred interest, principally acquired as part of the DreamWorks acquisition. Commitments and Contingencies In the normal course of our business, we provide and receive indemnities that are intended to allocate certain risks associated with business transactions. Similarly, we may remain contingently liable for various obligations of a business that has been divested in the event that a third party does not live up to its obligations under an indemnification obligation. Further, we may from time to time agree to pay additional consideration to the sellers of a business depending on the performance of the business during a period following the closing. Guarantees We guarantee debt on certain of our investments, including principal and interest, of approximately $230.0 million at December 31, 2007 and have accrued a liability of $54.1 million in respect of such exposures. Our guarantees principally relate to our investment in DW Funding LLC (DW Funding), as more fully described in Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements, where Viacom is subject to a put option obligation at the then current fair value of DW Funding, commencing in August 2010, nine months prior to the fifth anniversary of the sale. Viacom also has a corresponding call option exercisable at fair value. To the extent the current fair value at the option closing date is insufficient to repay certain indebtedness, including any unpaid interest, of DW Funding guaranteed by us, we would be required to pay the difference. At December 31, 2007, our aggregate guarantee related to lease commitments of divested businesses, primarily Blockbuster and Famous Players, was $1.34 billion with a recorded liability of $244.6 million. Certain Blockbuster leases contain renewal options that can extend the primary lease term and remain covered by the guarantees. Blockbusters indemnification obligations are secured by a $150 million letter of credit. Blockbuster has agreed to indemnify Former Viacom with respect to any amount paid under these guarantees. Further, in the third quarter of 2005, Former Viacom sold Famous Players, an operator of movie theaters in Canada. Former 56 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Viacom may incur liabilities associated with Famous Players theater leases and Famous Players has agreed to indemnify Former Viacom with respect to any amount paid. In connection with the separation, we agreed to indemnify Former Viacom with respect to these obligations. Finally, we have indemnification obligations with respect to letters of credit and surety bonds primarily used as security against our non performance in the normal course of business. The outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds at December 31, 2007 were $189.6 million and are not recorded on the balance sheet. Contingent Consideration on Acquisitions In October 2006, we acquired Harmonix, the developer of Guitar Hero and Rock Band and other music gaming titles, for initial cash consideration of $175.0 million. To the extent financial results exceed specific contractual targets against a defined gross profit metric through 2008, former Harmonix shareholders will be eligible for incremental earn out payments with respect to the years ended December 31, 2007 and December 31, 2008. At December 31, 2007, a liability of $208.7 million has been recorded in Other liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet for the expected earn out payment. We expect to have a final payment with respect to the year ended December 31, 2008 done in 2009. Capital Resources Capital Structure and Financing Obligations At December 31, 2007, total financing obligations were $8.25 billion, an increase of $598.2 million from $7.65 billion at December 31, 2006. December 31, (in millions) 2007 2006 Senior notes and debentures $ 6,967.0 $ 6,219.1 Note payable 169.9 Credit facility 750.0 Commercial paper 55.9 1,093.6 Obligations under capital leases 303.3 335.2 Total financing obligations $ 8,246.1 $ 7,647.9 Senior Notes and Debentures In October 2007, we sold $500 million aggregate principal amount of 6.125% senior notes due 2017 at a price equal to 99.286% of the principal amount and $250 million aggregate principal amount of 6.750% Senior Debentures due 2037 at a price equal to 99.275% of the principal amount. The total discount on the sale of these instruments was $5.4 million. We used the total cash proceeds, net of discount and offering expenses, of $739.5 million to repay amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility and our commercial paper program. In April 2006, we sold $4.75 billion in aggregate principal amount of 5.75% Senior Notes due 2011, 6.25% Senior Notes due 2016 and 6.875% Senior Debentures due 2036. In addition, in June 2006, we sold $750.0 million in Floating Rate Senior Notes, due 2009, that bear interest at a per annum rate equal to the three month London Interbank Offer Rate (LIBOR) plus 0.35%, to be reset quarterly. In December 2006, we sold $750.0 million of 6.85% senior notes due 2055. In accordance with the terms of our term loan agreement in place at the time of the offering, we utilized the net proceeds from the offerings to repay in full amounts outstanding under such facility and used the remainder to pay a portion of the amounts outstanding under our commercial paper program. 57 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) In connection with the April 2006 debt offering, we entered into a $2.35 billion notional amount of variable to fixed interest rate swaps to hedge the variability of cash flows attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate. In the second quarter of 2006, we terminated the swaps, resulting in cash proceeds to us of approximately $88.0 million that we principally recorded as a component of other comprehensive income, net of tax. Such proceeds recorded in other comprehensive income will be recognized as a reduction of interest expense, net over the life of the senior notes and debentures. See the discussion under Interest Rate Risk below for further detail of interest rate hedges we entered into. Note Payable In 2007, we contributed a $230 million non interest bearing note payable ($190.0 million discounted at a rate of 5.8% with quarterly principal payments fully amortizing in 2013) and certain assets related to MTVNs URGE digital music service for a 49% stake in Rhapsody America LLC, a newly formed venture with RealNetworks, Inc. Credit Facility At December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had a single $3.25 billion revolving facility due December 2010. The primary purpose of the facility is to fund short term liquidity needs and to support commercial paper borrowings. Borrowing rates under the revolving facility are determined at the time of each borrowing and are based generally on the LIBOR plus a margin based on our senior unsecured credit rating. A facility fee is paid based on the total amount of the commitments. In addition, we may borrow in certain foreign currencies up to specified limits under the revolving facility. The credit facility contains typical covenants for an investment grade company, with the only financial covenant being a minimum interest coverage ratio. At December 31, 2007, we were in compliance with all covenants under the credit facility. Commercial Paper At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the outstanding commercial paper had a weighted average interest rate of 5.95% and 5.62%, respectively. At December 31, 2007, the average remaining life was less than 30 days. The commercial paper is classified as a non current financing obligation as we have the intent and ability through utilization of our $3.25 billion revolving facility due December 2010 to refinance such obligations as long term. Our scheduled maturities of long term debt at face value, excluding capital leases, outstanding at December 31, 2007 were as follows: (in millions) 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter Long term debt $ 105.0 $ 815.0 $ 840.9 $ 1,500.0 $ $ 4,750.0 We anticipate that future debt maturities will be funded with cash and cash equivalents, cash flows from operating activities and future access to capital markets. There can be no assurance that we will be able to access capital markets on terms and conditions that will be acceptable to us. There are no provisions in any of our material financing agreements that would cause an acceleration of the obligation in the event of a downgrade in our debt ratings. Interest expense on debt borrowings was $453.7 million and $425.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The increase in interest expense for 2007 reflects the impact of fixed rate debt issuances during 2007 and 2006, which more than offsets the decrease in average debt outstanding. 58 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Securitization Facilities We securitize certain receivables because the highly liquid and efficient market for securitization of certain assets has been a source of lower cost funding compared to our other borrowings and diversifies our obligations among different markets and investors. We have been able to realize cost efficiencies under these arrangements since the assets securing the financing are generally held by a legally separate, wholly owned, bankruptcy remote special purpose entity (SPE) that provides investors with direct security in the assets. In general, we sell, on a revolving nonrecourse basis, a percentage ownership interest in certain of our accounts receivable (the Pooled Receivables), which are short term in nature, through SPEs to third party conduits sponsored by financial institutions. As consideration for Pooled Receivables sold through the securitization facilities, we receive cash and retained interests. The retained interests are included in Receivables on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. The retained interests may become uncollectible. In addition, we are the servicer of the receivables on behalf of the SPEs, for which we are paid a fee. Such servicing fee has not been material to any period presented. The terms of the revolving securitization arrangements require that the Pooled Receivables meet certain performance ratios. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, we were in compliance with the required ratios under the receivable securitization programs. During 2006, we increased our total capacity under the facilities by $500.0 million to $950.0 million and utilized the proceeds to pay down outstanding commercial paper. Stock Repurchase Program From January 2006 until June 22, 2007, we repurchased shares of our Class B Common Stock under a $3.0 billion stock repurchase program. In connection with the program, we entered into the NAIRI Agreement pursuant to which we agreed to buy from NAI and NAIRI a number of shares of our Class B Common Stock each month such that the ownership percentage of our Class A Common Stock and Class B Common Stock (considered as a single class) held by NAI and or NAIRI would not increase as a result of our purchase of shares under the program. For 2007, through completion of the program, 13.7 million shares were repurchased in the open market under the program for an aggregate purchase price of $580.0 million. An additional 1.8 million shares were purchased in 2007 under this program in accordance with the NAIRI Agreement for an aggregate purchase price of $75.0 million. On May 30, 2007, we announced that our Board of Directors had approved a new stock repurchase program under which we are authorized to acquire up to an additional $4.0 billion of Viacom Class A and Class B common stock. The independent members of the Board also approved NAI and NAIRIs continued participation in the new program on substantially the same terms as those on which it participated in the previous program and the NAIRI Agreement was amended accordingly. We commenced repurchases under the $4.0 billion stock repurchase program on June 22, 2007. For the year ended December 31, 2007, 30.0 million shares were repurchased in the open market under the new program for an aggregate purchase price of $1.21 billion. In addition, 2.8 million shares were purchased during 2007 from the 401(k) plans sponsored by CBS Corporation at an aggregate price of $120.0 million. An additional 4.2 million shares were purchased under the NAIRI Agreement for an aggregate purchase price of $170.8 million. Through February 27, 2008, we have acquired an additional 6.2 million shares at a weighted average price per share of $39.70 for an aggregate purchase price of $247.0 million, including shares purchased under the NAIRI Agreement. In the aggregate, for the year ended December 31, 2007, we acquired 52.5 million shares at a weighted average price per share of $41.06 for an aggregate purchase price of $2.16 billion under both of the stock repurchase programs, including shares purchased under the NAIRI Agreement and from the 401(k) plans sponsored by CBS Corporation. 59 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Our off balance sheet arrangements primarily consist of programming and talent commitments, operating lease arrangements and purchase obligations for goods and services. At December 31, 2007, our significant contractual obligations, including payments due by period, were as follows: (in millions) Total 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 thereafter Off balance Sheet Arrangements Programming and talent commitments(1) $ 1,782.9 $ 398.3 $ 290.1 $ 252.7 $ 234.5 $ 176.6 $ 430.7 Operating leases(2) $ 1,078.0 $ 171.1 $ 169.8 $ 123.3 $ 91.1 $ 85.7 $ 437.0 Purchase obligations(3) $ 646.2 $ 386.1 $ 174.3 $ 78.7 $ 5.7 $ 1.4 $ Balance Sheet Arrangements Capital lease obligations(4) $ 367.2 $ 99.0 $ 82.0 $ 49.9 $ 32.2 $ 26.9 $ 77.2 Long term debt $ 8,010.9 $ 105.0 $ 815.0 $ 840.9 $ 1,500.0 $ $ 4,750.0 Interest payments $ 7,876.2 $ 442.6 $ 422.5 $ 402.5 $ 356.1 $ 312.9 $ 5,939.6 Contingent consideration for acquisitions $ 208.7 $ 208.7 $ $ $ $ $ Other long term obligations(5) $ 2,832.0 $ 2,050.0 $ 304.1 $ 236.1 $ 153.4 $ 71.4 $ 17.0 (1) Programming and talent commitments primarily include $1.44 billion relating to cable programming and feature film production and acquisitions and $341.1 million for talent contracts. (2) Includes long term non cancelable operating lease commitments for retail and office space and equipment, transponders, studio facilities and vehicles. (3) Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including open purchase orders. (4) Includes capital leases for satellite transponders. (5) Other long term obligations consist of participations, residuals and programming obligations. Note: Not included in the amounts above are payments which may result from our unfunded defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefits of $233.3 million, unrecognized tax benefits of $436.2 million, including interest and penalties, $205 million of funding commitments to joint ventures and interest payments to be made under our credit facility, which expires in 2010. The amount and timing of payments with respect to these items are subject to a number of uncertainties such that we are unable to make sufficiently reliable estimations of future payments. We do expect to make contributions of $44 million in 2008 towards our pension and other postretirement benefits. MARKET RISK We are exposed to market risk related to foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. We use or expect to use derivative financial instruments to modify exposure to risks from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. In accordance with our policy, we do not use derivative instruments unless there is an underlying exposure, and we do not hold or enter into financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. Foreign Exchange Risk We conduct business in various countries outside the United States, resulting in exposure to movements in foreign exchange rates when translating from the foreign local currency to the U.S. dollar. In order to hedge anticipated cash flows and foreign currency balances in such currencies as the British Pound, the Australian Dollar, the Japanese Yen, the Canadian Dollar and the Euro, foreign currency forward contracts are used. Additionally, we designate forward contracts used to hedge future production costs as cash flow hedges, and designate certain forward contracts as a hedge of the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation. The change in fair value of the non designated contracts is included in current period earnings as part of other items, net. We manage the use of foreign exchange derivatives centrally. At December 31, 2007, the notional value of all foreign exchange contracts was $126.6 million, of which $26.3 million related to the 60 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) hedging of future production costs. The remaining $100.3 million represented economic hedges of underlying foreign currency balances, expected foreign currency net cash flows and investment hedges. At December 31, 2006, the notional value of all foreign exchange contracts was $253.0 million, of which $1.6 million related to the hedging of future production costs. The remaining $251.4 million represented economic hedges of underlying foreign currency balances and expected foreign currency net cash flows and investment hedges. Interest Rate Risk A portion of our interest expense is exposed to movements in short term rates. Interest rate hedges may be used to modify this exposure. During 2007 and 2006, we entered into $350.0 million and $2.35 billion, respectively, notional amount of interest rate hedges to reduce the variability of cash flows attributable to changes in the benchmark interest rate of future debt issuances. We terminated these hedges during the same years resulting in net cash proceeds to us of approximately $1.4 million and $88.0 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, there were no interest rate hedges outstanding. We have variable rate debt that had an outstanding balance of $1.56 billion as of December 31, 2007. Based on our variable rate obligations outstanding at December 31, 2007, a 1% increase or decrease in the level of interest rates would, respectively, increase or decrease our annual interest expense and related cash payments by approximately $15.6 million. Such potential increases or decreases are based on certain simplifying assumptions, including a constant level of variable rate debt for all maturities and an immediate, across the board increase or decrease in the level of interest rates with no other subsequent changes for the remainder of the period. Conversely, since most of our cash balance of $920.2 million is invested in variable rate interest earning assets, we would also earn more (less) interest income due to such an increase (decrease) in interest rates. Credit Risk We continually monitor our positions with, and credit quality of, the financial institutions which are counterparties to our financial instruments. We are exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the counterparties to the agreements. However, we do not anticipate nonperformance by the counterparties. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, which are based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. The result of these evaluations forms the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the reported amount of expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions. An appreciation of our critical accounting policies, those that are considered by management to require significant judgment and use of estimates and that could have a significant impact on our financial statements, is necessary to understand our financial results. Unless otherwise noted, we applied our critical accounting policies and estimation methods consistently in all material respects and for all periods presented, and have discussed such policies with our Audit Committee. Film Accounting Revenue Recognition Revenue we earn in connection with the exhibition of feature films by our Filmed Entertainment segment is recognized in accordance with Statement of Position No. 00 2, Accounting by Producers or Distributors of Films 61 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) (SOP 00 2). Our Filmed Entertainment segment principally earns revenue from the exhibition of feature film content based upon theatrical exhibition, home entertainment and various television markets (e.g., network, pay, syndication, basic cable). We recognize revenue from theatrical distribution of motion pictures upon exhibition. We recognize revenue from home entertainment product sales, net of anticipated returns, upon the later of delivery or the date that these products are made widely available for sale by retailers. We recognize revenue from the licensing of feature films and original programming for exhibition in television markets upon availability for airing by the licensee. We recognize revenue for video on demand and similar pay per view arrangements as the feature films are exhibited based on end customer purchases as reported by the distributor. Original Production and Film Costs We capitalize original production and feature film costs, on a title specific basis, as Inventory in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We use an individual forecast computation method to amortize the costs over the applicable titles life cycle based upon the ratio of current period and total gross revenues (ultimate revenues) for each title. We expense print and advertising costs as they are incurred and expense manufacturing costs, such as DVD manufacturing costs, on a unit specific basis when we recognize the related revenue. In accordance with SOP 00 2, our estimate of ultimate revenues for feature films includes revenues from all sources that will be earned within ten years from the date of a films initial domestic theatrical release. For acquired film libraries, our estimate of ultimate revenues is for a period within 20 years from the date of acquisition. Prior to the release of feature films and throughout its life, we estimate the ultimate revenues based on the historical performance of similar content, as well as incorporating factors of the content itself, including, but not limited to, the expected number of theaters and markets in which the original content will be released, the genre of the original content and the past box office performance of the lead actors and actresses. We believe the most sensitive factor affecting our estimate of ultimate revenues for feature films is domestic theatrical exhibition, as subsequent markets have historically exhibited a high correlation to domestic theatrical performance. The estimate of ultimate revenues impacts the timing of film cost amortization. Upon a films initial domestic theatrical release and performance, we update our estimate of ultimate revenues based on actual results. If our original content is not received favorably, we may reduce our estimate of ultimate revenues, thereby accelerating the amortization of capitalized film costs. In addition, we use the individual film forecast computation method to determine whether or not film costs are impaired. If we believe that the release of our content has not been favorably received, then we would assess whether the fair value of such content is less than the unamortized portion of its capitalized costs and, if need be, recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the unamortized capitalized costs exceed the fair value. We had $1.89 billion and $1.77 billion of film costs capitalized as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, and $1.30 billion and $1.17 billion, respectively, of capitalized original programming costs. Acquired Programming Rights The accounting for acquired program rights is addressed by the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) in Statement No. 63, Financial Reporting by Broadcasters (FAS 63). Under the provisions of FAS 63, a licensee reports an asset and liability for the rights acquired and obligations incurred at the commencement of the licensing period when the cost of the programming is known or reasonably determinable, the program material has been accepted by the licensee and the programming is available for airing. We record the transaction using the gross liability provision. The asset is amortized to operating expenses over the estimated periods revenues are generated, commencing upon the first airing. Determining factors used in estimating the useful life of programming includes the expected number of future airings, which may differ from the contracted number of 62 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) airings, the length of the license period and expected future revenues to be generated from the programming. An impairment charge may be necessary if our estimates of useful life of the programming are reduced or if programming is abandoned. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had acquired programming rights of $1.42 billion and $1.30 billion, respectively. Revenue Recognition Gross versus Net Revenue Recognition We earn and recognize revenues where we act as distributor on behalf of third parties. In such cases, determining whether revenue should be reported on a gross or net basis is based on managements assessment of whether we act as the principal or agent in the transaction. To the extent we act as the principal in a transaction, we report revenues on a gross basis. In concluding on whether or not we act as principal, we follow the guidance set forth by the Emerging Issues Task Force (EITF) in EITF Issue No. 99 19, Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net as an Agent (EITF 99 19). The determination of whether we act as a principal or an agent in a transaction involves judgment and is based on an evaluation of whether we have the substantial risks and rewards of ownership under the terms of an arrangement. Currently, our most significant arrangements are the DWA agreements and the DW Funding distribution agreement. Under the terms of these agreements, we are generally responsible for all out of pocket costs, primarily comprised of distribution and marketing costs. For the provision of distribution services, we are entitled to retain a fee expressed as a percentage of gross receipts, and recoup expended distribution and marketing costs on a film by film basis prior to any participation payments to DreamWorks Animation and DW Funding. We also have a similar arrangement with Marvel. As primary obligor, revenue and related distribution and marketing costs for these arrangements are presented on a gross basis in accordance with EITF 99 19. Sales Returns and Uncollectible Accounts Revenue allowances are recorded to adjust amounts originally invoiced to the estimated net realizable value in accordance with revenue recognition guidance set forth in FASB Statement No. 48, Revenue Recognition When Right of Return Exists. Upon the sale of home entertainment product, we record a reduction of revenue for the impact of estimated customer future returns, rebates and other incentives (estimated returns). In determining estimated returns, we analyze historical return activity, current economic trends and changes in customer demand and acceptance of our products. Based on this information, we reserve a percentage of each dollar of product revenue when we provide a customer with the right of return. Our estimate of future returns affects reported revenue and operating income. If we underestimate the impact of future returns in a particular period, then we may record less revenue in later periods when returns exceed the estimated amounts. If we overestimate the impact of future returns in a particular period, then we may record additional revenue in later periods when returns are less than estimated. An incremental change of 1% in our estimated sales returns for home entertainment and consumer products revenue would have a $32.0 million impact on our total revenue. Our sales return allowance totaled $706.2 million and $562.7 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. We also continually evaluate accounts receivable and establish judgments as to their ultimate collectibility. Judgment and estimates involved include an analysis of specific risks on a customer by customer basis for larger accounts and an analysis of actual historical write off experience in conjunction with the length of time the receivables are past due. Using this information, management reserves an amount that is estimated to be uncollectible. An incremental change of 1% in our allowance for uncollectible accounts for trade accounts receivables would have a $27.2 million impact on our operating results. Our allowance for uncollectible accounts totaled $101.9 million and $142.9 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 63 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Provision for Income Taxes As a global entertainment content company, we are subject to income taxes in the United States and foreign jurisdictions where we have operations. Significant judgment is required in determining our annual provision for income taxes and evaluating our income tax positions. Our tax rates are affected by many factors, including our global mix of earnings, legislation, acquisitions, dispositions, as well as the tax characteristics of our income. Our income tax returns are routinely audited and settlements of issues raised in these audits sometimes affect our tax provisions. During 2007 and 2006, we reached settlement of certain matters with the Internal Revenue Service. As a result, our 2007 and 2006 provision for income taxes includes $15.0 million and $141.8 million of net discrete tax benefits principally related to these settlements. Fair Value Measurements The performance of fair value measurements is an integral part of the preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Fair value is defined as the exchange price in an orderly transaction between market participants to sell an asset or transfer a liability in the principal market for such asset or liability. Selection of the appropriate valuation technique, as well as determination of assumptions and estimates for each technique requires significant judgment. Although we believe that the inputs used in our valuation techniques are reasonable, a change in one or more of the inputs could result in an increase or decrease in the fair value of certain assets and certain liabilities. Either instance would have an impact on both our Consolidated Balance Sheet and Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Provided below are those instances where the determination of fair value could have the most significant impact on our financial condition or results of operations: Business Combinations. During 2007 and 2006, we paid and or assumed debt obligations of approximately $14.5 million and $2.07 billion in total consideration, net of cash acquired, for the purchase of whole, controlling interest or specific assets of several entities. The determination of fair value and associated lives for each asset and liability has a direct impact on our results of operations. Goodwill and Indefinite Lived Intangible Assets. On an annual basis the test for goodwill impairment is performed using a two step process. The first step is to identify a potential impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. Our reporting units are consistent with our operating segments. The estimates of fair value of a reporting unit are determined based on a discounted cash flow analysis. A discounted cash flow analysis requires us to make various judgmental assumptions, including assumptions about future cash flows, growth rates and discount rates. The assumptions about future cash flows and growth rates are based on the budget and long term business plans of each operating segment. Discount rate assumptions are based on an assessment of the risk inherent in the future cash flows of the respective reporting units. If necessary, the second step of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. In addition, we currently have two trademarks that we consider to have an indefinite life. The impairment test for indefinite lived intangible assets consists of a comparison of the fair value of the intangible asset with its carrying value. The estimates of fair value of trademarks are determined using a discounted cash flow valuation methodology commonly referred to as the relief from royalty methodology. Significant 64 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) assumptions inherent in the relief from royalty methodology employed include estimates of appropriate marketplace royalty rates and discount rates. Our impairment analysis, which is performed annually during the fourth quarter, did not result in an impairment charge for goodwill or indefinite lived intangible assets in the years presented. Finite Lived Intangible Assets. In determining whether finite lived intangible assets (e.g., customer lists, film libraries) are impaired, the accounting rules do not provide for an annual impairment test. Instead, they require that a triggering event occur before testing an asset for impairment. Once a triggering event has occurred, the impairment test employed is based on whether the intent is to hold the asset for continued use or to hold the asset for sale. If the intent is to hold the asset for continued use, first a comparison of undiscounted future cash flows against the carrying value of the asset is performed. If the carrying value exceeds the undiscounted cash flows, the asset would be written down to the discounted fair value. If the intent is to hold the asset for sale, to the extent the carrying value is greater than the assets value, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference. Significant judgments in this area involve determining whether a triggering event has occurred and the determination of the cash flows for the assets involved and the discount rate to be applied in determining fair value. There was no impairment of finite lived intangible assets in the years presented. RECENT PRONOUNCEMENTS Statement No. 141 (R) In December 2007, FASB issued Statement No. 141 (R), Business Combinations revised (FAS 141 (R)). FAS 141 (R) provides additional guidance and standards for the acquisition method of accounting to be used for all business combinations. FAS 141 (R) will be effective for all business combinations consummated beginning January 1, 2009. Statement No. 160 In December 2007, FASB issued Statement No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements an amendment of ARB No. 51 (FAS 160). FAS 160 establishes and provides accounting and reporting standards for the noncontrolling interest in a subsidiary and for the deconsolidation of a subsidiary. FAS 160 will be effective for us beginning January 1, 2009. We are currently assessing the potential effect of FAS 160 on the financial statements. Statement No. 157 In September 2006, the FASB finalized Statement No. 157 Fair Value Measurements (FAS 157). FAS 157 establishes a framework for measuring fair value, clarifies the definition of fair value, and expands disclosures about the use of fair value measurements; however, it does not require any new fair value measurements. The provisions of FAS 157 will be applied prospectively beginning January 1, 2008 for all financial assets and financial liabilities recognized or disclosed in the financial statements at fair value. The adoption of these provisions of the Statement are not expected to have a material impact on the financial statements. For all non financial assets and non financial liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in the financial statements on a nonrecurring basis, the effective date of FAS 157 has been delayed until January 1, 2009. We are currently assessing the potential effect of these provisions of the Statement on the financial statements. 65 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) OTHER MATTERS Legal Matters Litigation is inherently uncertain and always difficult to predict. However, based on our understanding and evaluation of the relevant facts and circumstances, we believe the legal matters described below and other litigation to which we are a party are not likely, in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, financial position or cash flows. Pending Litigation In March 2007, we filed a complaint in the Federal Court for the Southern District of New York against Google Inc. (Google) and its wholly owned subsidiary YouTube, alleging that Google and YouTube violated and continue to violate our copyrights. We are seeking both damages and injunctive relief, and the lawsuit is currently in discovery. Former Viacom, NAI, Blockbuster and we, and certain of their and our respective present and former officers and directors, are currently defendants in an ERISA action in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas relating to the 2004 split off of Blockbuster from Former Viacom pursuant to an exchange offer. A consolidated securities action in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Texas and a state law action in the Court of Chancery of Delaware arising from the same facts were dismissed in September 2007 and February 2008, respectively. The plaintiff in the latter action have filed a notice of appeal. The plaintiff in the ERISA action alleges that the defendants in that case breached fiduciary obligations to the Blockbuster Investment Plan by continuing to offer to plan participants Blockbuster stock from and after November 2003 and by offering to Plan participants the opportunity to exchange their shares of Former Viacom common stock for the shares of Blockbuster common stock. In September 2007, defendants motion to dismiss the ERISA action was granted in part and denied in part, and in November, the plaintiff filed an amended complaint, which the defendants moved to dismiss in January. Blockbuster has agreed to indemnify Former Viacom and its employees, officers and directors with respect to any liabilities arising out of any material untrue statements and omissions in those portions of the 2004 Prospectus Offer to Exchange relating to the split off that were provided by Blockbuster, and we have agreed to indemnify CBS Corporation for any losses arising from these lawsuits. We believe that the plaintiffs positions in these litigations are without merit and intend to continue to vigorously defend ourselves. In September 2007, Brantley, et al. v. NBC Universal, Inc., et al., was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California against us and several other program content providers on behalf of a purported nationwide class of cable and satellite subscribers. The plaintiffs also sued several major cable and satellite program distributors, alleging against all defendants violations of Sections 1 and 2 of the Sherman Antitrust Act. The complaint alleges that the programmer defendants conspired to sell and or license programming on a bundled basis to the distributor defendants, who in turn offer programming to their customers in bundles, rather than in a channel by channel (or &agrave; la carte) basis. Plaintiffs seek, among other things, treble monetary damages in an unspecified amount and in injunction to compel the offering of channels to subscribers on an &agrave; la carte basis. In December 2007, all of the defendants moved to dismiss the amended complaint, and we intend to vigorously defend this lawsuit. Concluded Litigation On July 13, 2005, two identical shareholder derivative lawsuits were filed against Former Viacom relating to the compensation of Sumner Redstone, Tom Freston and Leslie Moonves, each of whom was an executive officer of Former Viacom. On November 27, 2007, the judge in the case approved a final settlement, the costs of which were immaterial and have been evenly shared with CBS Corporation. 66 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Related Parties NAI, through NAIRI, Inc., is the controlling stockholder of both Viacom and CBS Corporation and NAI also controls Midway Games. Sumner M. Redstone, Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and controlling shareholder of NAI, is the Executive Chairman of the Board and Founder of Viacom and CBS Corporation. In addition, Shari Redstone, who is Sumner Redstones daughter, is the Vice Chair of the Board of Viacom and CBS Corporation, is President and a director of NAI and is Chairman of Midway. Philippe Dauman, our President and Chief Executive Officer, and George Abrams, one of our directors, serve on the boards of both NAI and Viacom. Fred Salerno, one of our directors, serves on the board of both Viacom and CBS Corporation. NAI licenses films in the ordinary course of business for its motion picture theaters from all major studios including Paramount. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, NAI made payments to Paramount in connection with these licenses in the aggregate amounts of approximately $36.5 million, $13.4 million and $14.6 million, respectively. NAI and Mr. Redstone owned in the aggregate approximately 87% and 88% of the common stock of Midway Games Inc. (Midway) as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Midway places advertisements on several of Viacoms cable networks from time to time. During the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, Midway made payments to MTVN of approximately $2.9 million, $4.1 million and $5.9 million, respectively. We believe that these transactions were no more or less favorable to the subsidiaries than they would have obtained from unrelated parties. We may continue to enter into these and other business transactions with Midway in the future. In connection with our stock repurchase programs, in 2007 and 2006, respectively, we purchased 6.0 million and 6.9 million shares under the NAIRI Agreement for aggregate purchase prices of $245.8 million and $269.5 million, respectively. In September 2005, Cinemas International Corporation N.V., a joint venture between Former Viacom and Vivendi Universal, agreed to sell its Brazilian movie operations to NAI for approximately $27.5 million in a transaction that closed in October 2005. The sale was discussed with multiple potential purchasers and negotiated on terms we believe are no more or less favorable than those that might have been negotiated with an unaffiliated party. In the normal course of business, we are involved in other related party transactions that have not been material in any of the periods presented. For information on NAIs participation in our stock repurchase program, see section on Capital Resources Stock Repurchase Program. Viacom and CBS Corporation Related Party Transactions In the normal course of business, we are involved in transactions with companies owned by or affiliated with CBS Corporation that results in the recognition of revenue by Viacom. Paramount licenses motion picture products to CBS Corporation. Paramount distributes certain television products for a fee on behalf of CBS Corporations television production group in the home entertainment market. Paramount also recognizes revenue related to the lease of studio space to CBS Corporation. Our media networks recognize advertising revenues for media spending placed by various subsidiaries of CBS Corporation. 67 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Through our media networks, we purchase television programming from CBS Corporation. The cost of these purchases is initially recorded as acquired program rights inventory and amortized over the estimated period that revenues will be generated. We place advertisements with various subsidiaries of CBS Corporation. Transactions with CBS Corporation, through the normal course of business, are settled in cash. The following table summarizes the transactions with CBS Corporation as included in our consolidated financial statements: Year Ended December 31, (in millions) 2007 2006 2005 Consolidated Statements of Earnings Revenues $ 243.5 $ 257.3 $ 154.9 Operating expenses $ 184.7 $ 166.5 $ 170.5 Discontinued operations $ (4.6 ) $ (2.6 ) $ (1.8 ) December 31, 2007 2006 Consolidated Balance Sheets Accounts receivable $ 86.7 $ 95.5 Other assets 22.6 40.2 Total due from CBS Corporation $ 109.3 $ 135.7 Accounts payable $ 2.9 $ 3.0 Participants share, residuals and royalties payable 177.3 168.5 Programming rights, current 98.1 152.6 Other liabilities 177.1 226.7 Liabilities held for sale 4.4 Total due to CBS Corporation $ 455.4 $ 555.2 Special Dividend to Former Viacom In accordance with the terms of the Separation Agreement, in December 2005 we paid a preliminary special dividend to Former Viacom of $5.40 billion which was subject to adjustments for, among other items, actual Former Viacom debt as of the date of the separation and actual CBS Corporation cash flow for 2005, compared to estimates used to calculate the preliminary special dividend. In 2006 and 2007, we made further payments of $206.1 million and $170.0 million, respectively, to CBS Corporation in final resolution of the adjustments. 401(k) Plan Transactions Following the separation, some participants in the Viacom 401(k) Plan continued to be invested in CBS Corporation Class A and Class B common stock. On June 29, 2007, we entered into an agreement with CBS Corporation for CBS Corporation to purchase the shares of CBS Corporation Class A and Class B common stock from the Viacom 401(k) Plan, and in July, those shares were sold to CBS Corporation for total proceeds of $29.8 million. Similarly, some participants in the 401(k) plans sponsored by CBS Corporation continued to be invested in Viacom Class A and Class B common stock following the separation. On June 29, 2007, we entered into an agreement with CBS Corporation for us to purchase the shares of Viacom Class A and Class B common stock from the CBS sponsored 401(k) plans, and in July, those shares were purchased for an aggregate amount of $120.0 million. In connection with the separation, we entered into a Separation Agreement with CBS Corporation that identified assets to be transferred, liabilities to be assumed and obligations of each company following the separation, 68 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) including indemnification obligations for such liabilities. We also entered into a Transition Services Agreement and a Tax Matters Agreement with CBS Corporation. Such arrangements are further described below. For information on the shares repurchased from the 401(k) plans sponsored by CBS Corporation, see section on Capital Resources Stock Repurchase Program. Separation Agreement The Separation Agreement contains the key provisions required to effect the separation of Former Viacom into Viacom and CBS Corporation. The Separation Agreement identified assets transferred, liabilities assumed and contracts assigned to us by CBS Corporation and to CBS Corporation by us in the separation, and described when and how these transfers, assumptions and assignments were to occur. The Separation Agreement also sets forth certain agreements between us and CBS Corporation with respect to the period following the separation date. Former Viacom and Viacom executed the Separation Agreement in December 2005. Indemnification Obligations. Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, each company indemnified the other company and the other companys officers, directors and employees for any losses arising out of its failure to perform or discharge any of the liabilities it assumed pursuant to the Separation Agreement, its businesses as conducted as of the date of the separation and its breaches of shared contracts. Legal Matters. In general, under the Separation Agreement, Viacom assumed the liability for, and control of, all pending and threatened legal matters related to its own business or assumed liabilities and will indemnify the other party for any liability arising out of or resulting from such assumed legal matters. Liability for, and control of, future litigation claims against Viacom for events that took place prior to, on or after the date of the separation generally will be assumed by the company operating the business to which the claim relates or, in the case of businesses which were sold or discontinued prior to the date of the separation, or for other matters agreed to be indemnified, the company which has assumed the liabilities. Viacom agreed to cooperate in defending any claims against both of Viacom and CBS Corporation for events that took place prior to, on, or after the date of the separation. Employee Matters. The Separation Agreement allocated liabilities and responsibilities relating to employee compensation and benefit plans and programs and other related matters in connection with the separation, including the treatment of certain outstanding annual and long term incentive awards, existing deferred compensation obligations and certain retirement and welfare benefit obligations. In general, the Separation Agreement provides that, following the separation, Viacom is responsible for all employment and benefit related obligations and liabilities related to current employees who work for Viacom immediately following the separation, Former Viacom employees who most recently worked for other businesses and operations that became part of Viacom immediately following the separation, Former Viacom employees who most recently worked for certain other businesses and operations that were sold or discontinued prior to the separation, and certain other former employees of Former Viacom as set forth in the Separation Agreement (and, in each case, their dependents and beneficiaries). Liability for benefit related obligations and liabilities of former employees of Former Viacom who most recently worked for the Former Viacom corporate office or the Paramount Pictures corporate office (other than those who accepted a post separation position with CBS Corporation or Viacom) and certain Former Viacom corporate office employees who will remain employed by CBS Corporation and provide transition services following the separation is shared equally by Viacom and CBS Corporation. Effective as of the separation, employees of Viacom, other than overlapping employees, do not participate in Former Viacoms employee benefit plans and Viacom established its own employee benefit plans that are 69 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) substantially similar to the plans sponsored by Former Viacom prior to the separation. The Separation Agreement provided for the transfer of assets and liabilities, as applicable, relating to the pre separation participation of Viacom employees and certain Former Viacom employees (as set forth in the Separation Agreement) in various Former Viacom retirement, welfare, incentive compensation and employee benefit plans from such plans to the applicable new plans established by Viacom. Limitations on Certain Acquisitions. Subject to limited exceptions, the Separation Agreement provides that none of Viacom, any subsidiary of Viacom or any person that is controlled by Viacom after the separation will own or acquire an interest in a radio or television broadcast station, television broadcast network or daily newspaper, if such ownership or acquisition would (i) cause CBS Corporation, any subsidiary of CBS Corporation or any entity controlled by CBS Corporation after the date of the separation to be in violation of U.S. federal laws limiting the ownership or control of radio broadcast stations, television broadcast stations, television broadcast networks or (ii) limit in any manner at any time under such laws CBS Corporations ability to acquire additional interests in a radio or television broadcast station and or television broadcast network. These restrictions will terminate when none of Mr. Redstone, NAI, NAIRI or any of their successors, assigns or transferees are deemed to have interests in both CBS Corporation and Viacom that are attributable under applicable U.S. federal laws. The Separation Agreement also provides that neither Viacom, any subsidiary of Viacom or any person controlled by Viacom nor CBS Corporation, any subsidiary of CBS Corporation or any person controlled by CBS Corporation will acquire any asset, enter into any agreement or accept or agree to any condition that purports to bind, or subjects to a legal order, the other company, its subsidiaries or any person it controls without such other partys written consent. In addition, neither Viacom, any subsidiary of Viacom or any person controlled by Viacom nor CBS Corporation, or subsidiary of CBS Corporation or any person controlled by CBS Corporation will own or acquire an interest in a cable television operator if such ownership would subject the other company to any U.S. federal laws regulating contractual relationships between video programming vendors and video programming distributors to which it is not then subject. These restrictions will terminate for each company on the earliest of (1) the fourth anniversary of the separation, (2) the date on which none of Mr. Redstone, NAI, NAIRI or any of their successors, assigns or transferees are deemed to have interests in both CBS Corporation and Viacom that are attributable under applicable U.S. federal laws and (3) the date on which the other company ceases to own the video programming vendors that it owns as of the separation. Tax Matters Agreement The following description of the principal provisions of the Tax Matters Agreement between Former Viacom and us is qualified by reference to the text of the Tax Matters Agreement, a form of which was filed as an exhibit to this annual report. The Tax Matters Agreement sets forth Viacoms responsibilities with respect to, among other things, liabilities for federal, state, local and foreign income taxes for periods before and including the merger, the preparation and filing of income tax returns for such periods, disputes with taxing authorities regarding income taxes for such periods and indemnification for income taxes that would become due if the merger were taxable. Viacom will generally be responsible for federal, state and local, and foreign income taxes for periods before the merger relating to Viacoms respective businesses. Income tax liabilities relating to discontinued operations and previously disposed businesses have been allocated in accordance with the principles applicable under the Separation Agreement for liabilities relating to those operations and businesses. Other income tax liabilities, 70 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) including items that do not specifically relate to either business, will be shared equally. Viacom and CBS Corporation will generally be jointly responsible for managing any dispute relating to income taxes for which both parties may be responsible. The Tax Matters Agreement also provides that, depending on the event, Viacom may have to indemnify CBS Corporation, or CBS Corporation may have to indemnify Viacom, for some or all of the taxes resulting from the transactions related to the merger and the distribution of Viacom common stock if the merger and distribution do not qualify as tax free under Sections 355 and 368 of the Code. 71 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Disclosures on our market risk are included in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition Market Risk. 
 
