Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition, contains both historical and forward looking statements. All statements that are not statements of historical fact are, or may be deemed to be, forward looking statements. Forward looking statements reflect our current expectations concerning future results, objectives, plans and goals, and involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors that are difficult to predict and which may cause actual results, performance or achievements to differ. These risks, uncertainties and other factors are discussed in Item 1A. Risk Factors below. Other risks, or updates to the risks discussed below, may be described in our news releases and filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including but not limited to our reports on Form 10 Q and Form 8 K. The forward looking statements included in this document are made only as of the date of this document, and we do not have any obligation to publicly update any forward looking statements to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. Item 1A. Risk Factors. A wide range of risks may affect our business and financial results, now and in the future. We consider the risks described below to be the most significant. There may be other currently unknown or unpredictable economic, business, competitive, regulatory or other factors that could have material adverse effects on our future results. Our Success is Dependent upon Audience Acceptance of our Brands, Programming, Motion Pictures and Other Entertainment Content, which is Difficult to Predict The production and distribution of programming, motion pictures and other entertainment content is inherently risky because the revenues we derive from various sources primarily depend on our contents acceptance by the public, which is difficult to predict. Audience tastes change frequently and it is a challenge to anticipate what offerings will be successful at a certain point in time, especially given the length of the production cycle. In addition, the quality and acceptance of competing entertainment content, increasing digital offerings, availability of alternative forms of entertainment and leisure time activities, piracy and general economic conditions affect the audience for our content. In our Media Networks business, our advertising revenues typically are a product of audience size and pricing, which reflect market conditions. Depending on the success of our programming at any given time, one or more of our cable networks can experience ratings fluctuations that negatively affect our advertising revenues. Low 21 Table of Contents audience ratings can also negatively affect the affiliate fees we receive and or limit a networks distribution potential. In addition, consumer acceptance of our brands has a significant impact on revenues from consumer products and licensing activities. Similarly, the acceptance of our brands and programs internationally impacts our success, including the expansion of our presence abroad. In our Filmed Entertainment business, the theatrical performance of a motion picture affects not only the theatrical revenues we receive but also those from other distribution channels, such as home entertainment sales, television and digital licenses and sales of licensed consumer products. Consumer acceptance of our brands, entertainment content and retail offerings is key to the success of our business and our ability to generate revenues. Changes in Consumer Behavior Resulting from New Technologies and Distribution Platforms May Affect Our Viewership and Profitability in Unpredictable Ways Consumers are spending an increasing amount of time online and on mobile devices and tablets, and technology and business models in these areas continue to evolve rapidly. New forms of content distribution provide different economic models and compete in ways that are not entirely predictable. For example, digital distributors are generally licensed different rights than traditional cable and satellite operators, in many cases having rights to older, library product for use in later windows. Nevertheless, library product competes in some respects with the current content offered by traditional cable and satellite operators, and the cable and satellite operators are increasingly offering applications that distribute cable and satellite television to portable devices in competition with digital only distributors. Such competition could reduce demand for our traditional television offerings or for the offerings of digital distributors, and reduce our revenue from these sources. In addition, consumers are increasingly viewing content on a time delayed or on demand basis from the Internet, on their televisions and on tablets and other portable devices. There is increased demand for short form, user generated and interactive content, which have different economic models than our traditional content offerings. Consumer demand for DVDs has been declining, and there can be no assurance that such demand will be entirely replaced by newer offerings or that the profitability of such offerings will compare to that of DVD sales and rentals. At the same time, exhibition windows are evolving, potentially affecting revenues from other windows. New technologies and distribution platforms are having other effects on the marketplace. For example, some distributors have gained, or may gain, market power, which could affect our ability to maximize the value of our content through those platforms. Some distributors have taken positions that they have more expansive rights than we believe we have granted, which, if they prevail, could limit our revenue opportunities and our ability to control distribution to maximize revenue and profitability. All of these factors create uncertainty in the marketplace, and there can be no assurance that the strategies we develop to address them will be effective. Our Businesses Operate in Highly Competitive Industries Companies in the cable networks, motion picture and digital industries depend on audience acceptance of content, appeal to advertisers and solid distribution relationships. Competition for content, audiences, advertising and distribution is intense and comes from broadcast television, other cable networks, online and mobile properties, movie studios and independent film producers and distributors, among other entertainment outlets. Competition also comes from pirated content. Our ability to compete successfully depends on a number of factors, including our ability to create or acquire high quality and popular programs and films, adapt to new technologies and distribution platforms, and achieve widespread distribution for our content. More content distribution options increase competition for viewers, and competitors targeting programming to fragmented audiences may gain an advantage over us for television advertising and affiliate revenues. In addition, our competitors include market participants with interests in multiple media businesses which are often vertically integrated, whereas our Media Networks businesses 22 Table of Contents generally rely on distribution relationships with third parties. As more cable and satellite operators, ISPs and other content distributors create or acquire their own content, they may have significant competitive advantages, which could adversely affect our ability to negotiate favorable terms or otherwise compete effectively in the delivery marketplace. Our competitors could also have preferential access to important technologies, customer data or other competitive information. There can be no assurance that we will be able to compete successfully in the future against existing or potential competitors, or that competition will not have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations. Theft of Our Entertainment Content, Including Digital Copyright Theft and Other Unauthorized Exhibitions of Our Content, May Decrease Revenue Received from Our Programming and Motion Pictures and Adversely Affect Our Businesses and Profitability The success of our businesses depends in part on our ability to maintain and monetize our intellectual property rights to our entertainment content. We are fundamentally a content company and theft of our brands, motion pictures and home entertainment product, television programming, digital content and other intellectual property has the potential to significantly affect us and the value of our content. Copyright theft is particularly prevalent in many parts of the world that lack effective copyright and technical protective measures similar to those existing in the United States and or that lack effective enforcement of such measures. The interpretation of copyright, privacy and other laws as applied to our content, and our piracy detection and enforcement efforts, remain in flux. The failure to strengthen and or the weakening of existing intellectual property laws could make it more difficult for us to adequately protect our intellectual property and negatively affect its value. Content theft is made easier by the wide availability of higher bandwidth and reduced storage costs, as well as tools that undermine security features such as encryption and the ability of pirates to cloak their identities online. In addition, we and our numerous production and distribution partners operate various technology systems in connection with the production and distribution of our programming and motion pictures, and intentional or unintentional acts could result in unauthorized access to our content, a disruption of our services, or improper disclosure of personal data or confidential information. The increasing use of digital formats and technologies heightens this risk. Unauthorized access to our content could result in the premature release of motion pictures or television shows, which is likely to have a significant adverse effect on the value of the affected programming. Copyright theft has an adverse effect on our business because it reduces the revenue that we are able to receive from the legitimate sale and distribution of our content, undermines lawful distribution channels and inhibits our ability to recoup or profit from the costs incurred to create such works. We are actively engaged in enforcement and other activities to protect our intellectual property, and it is likely that we will continue to expend substantial resources in connection with these efforts. Efforts to prevent the unauthorized distribution, performance and copying of our content may affect our profitability and may not be successful in preventing harm to our business. Global Economic Conditions May Have an Adverse Effect on Our Businesses Economic conditions affect a number of aspects of our businesses worldwide, in particular revenues derived from advertising sales, theatrical release, home entertainment sales and television licensing, and sales of consumer products. Economic conditions can impact the businesses of our partners who purchase advertising on our networks and reduce their spending on advertising. They can also negatively affect the ability of those with whom we do business to satisfy their obligations to us. In addition, increased unemployment and slowing consumer spending can reduce sales of our retail products. The worsening of current global economic conditions could adversely affect our businesses. Advertising Market Conditions Could Cause Our Revenues and Operating Results to Decline Significantly in Any Given Period or in Specific Markets We derive substantial revenues from the sale of advertising on a variety of platforms, and a decline in advertising expenditures could have a significant adverse affect on our revenues and operating results in any given period. 23 Table of Contents The strength of the advertising market can fluctuate in response to the economic prospects of specific advertisers or industries, advertisers current spending priorities and the economy in general, and this may adversely affect the growth rate of our advertising revenues. In addition, the pricing and volume of advertising may be affected by shifts in spending toward online and mobile offerings from more traditional media, or toward new ways of purchasing advertising, such as through third parties selling local advertising spots and advertising exchanges. For example, we and other cable network owners may provide advertising inventory on our networks to cable television or satellite operators and other intermediaries that may compete with our direct sales. Advertising sales are dependent on audience measurement, which is provided by third parties. The results of audience measurement techniques can vary independent of the size of the audience for a variety of reasons, including difficulties related to the employed statistical sampling methods, new methods of watching our networks, such as on computers, and the shifting of the marketplace to the use of measurement of different viewer behavior, such as delayed viewing. These variations and changes could have a significant effect on advertising revenues. Advertising expenditures may also be affected by political, social or technological change. For example, Federal legislators and regulators are considering voluntary guidelines on advertising to children in an effort to combat unhealthy eating and childhood obesity, and have considered imposing limitations on the marketing of certain movies and regulating product placement and other program sponsorship arrangements. The threat of regulatory action or increased scrutiny may deter certain advertisers from advertising on our networks. Increased Costs for Programming, Motion Pictures and Other Rights, as Well as Judgments We Make on the Potential Performance of our Content, May Adversely Affect Our Profits and Balance Sheet In our Media Networks segment, we have historically produced a significant amount of original programming and continue to invest in this area. We also acquire programming, motion pictures, television series, and other rights such as consumer products offerings from other companies and pay license fees in connection with the acquired rights. Our investments in original and acquired programming are significant, and involve complex negotiations with numerous third parties. These costs may not be recouped when the program is broadcast or distributed and higher costs may lead to decreased profitability or potential write downs. The Filmed Entertainment segments core business involves the production, marketing and distribution of motion pictures, the costs of which have generally been increasing. A films underperformance theatrically can significantly affect our revenues and profitability and negatively affect the revenues we receive from subsequent distribution channels. The accounting for the expenses we incur in connection with our programming and motion pictures requires that we make judgments about the potential success and useful life of the program or motion picture. If our estimates prove to be incorrect, we may be forced to accelerate our recognition of the expense and or write down the value of the asset. For example, we estimate the ultimate revenues of a motion picture before it is released based on a number of factors. Upon a films initial domestic theatrical release and performance, we update our estimate of ultimate revenues based on actual results. If it is not received favorably, we may reduce our estimate of ultimate revenues, thereby accelerating the amortization of capitalized film costs. Similarly, if we determine it is no longer advantageous for us to air a program on our networks, we would accelerate our amortization of the program. An increase in content acquisition costs could also affect our profits. For example, we license various music rights from the major record companies and music publishers, performing rights organizations and others. Some of these sources of music are highly consolidated and certain music costs are subject to adjudicatory procedures in courts or administrative agencies. There can be no assurance that our cost containment efforts will be as 24 Table of Contents effective as we would like or that we will recoup our investments in programming or motion pictures, which may negatively affect our profitability. Our Revenues, Expenses and Operating Results May Vary Based on the Timing, Mix, Number and Availability of Our Motion Pictures and on Seasonal Factors Our revenues, expenses and operating results fluctuate due to the timing, mix, number and availability of our theatrical motion pictures, home entertainment releases and licensing of programs. For example, our operating results may increase or decrease during a particular period due to differences in the number and or mix of films released compared to the corresponding period in the prior year. Our operating results also fluctuate due to the timing of the recognition of production and advertising expenses, which are typically largely incurred prior to the release of motion pictures and home entertainment product, with the recognition of related revenues in later periods. Our business also has experienced and is expected to continue to experience seasonality due to, among other things, seasonal advertising patterns and seasonal influences on audiences viewing habits and attendance. Typically, our revenue from advertising increases in the first quarter of our fiscal year due to the holiday season, among other factors, and revenue from motion pictures increases in the summer and around holidays. The effects of these variances make it difficult to estimate future operating results based on the results of any specific quarter. Changes in U.S. or Foreign Communications Laws, Laws Affecting Intellectual Property Rights or Other Regulations May Have an Adverse Effect on Our Business Our program services and online properties are subject to a variety of laws and regulations, including those relating to content regulation, user privacy, data protection and consumer protection, among others. For example, there are various laws and regulations intended to protect the interests of children, including limits on the amount and content of advertising that may be shown during childrens programming and measures designed to protect the privacy of minors that affect our Nickelodeon businesses in particular. In addition, the U.S. Congress and the FCC currently have under consideration, and may in the future adopt, new laws, regulations and policies regarding a wide variety of matters that could directly or indirectly affect the operations or ownership of our U.S. media properties. For example, if our programming services are required to be offered on an &aacute; la carte or tiered basis, we could experience high costs, reduced distribution of our program services, perhaps significantly, and lose viewers on some or all of our channels. Our businesses could be affected by any such new laws and regulations, or the threat that additional laws or regulations may be forthcoming. Our businesses are also impacted by the laws and regulations of the foreign jurisdictions in which we, or our partners, operate. We could incur substantial costs to comply with new laws and regulations or substantial penalties or other liabilities if we fail to comply. We could also be required to change or limit certain of our business practices, which could impact our ability to generate revenues. For example, the EUs European Court of Justice recently ruled that some territorial, as opposed to pan EU, licensing of content for satellite distribution violates European Union law and that some existing agreements related to satellite distribution with territorial restrictions may be unenforceable. The effects of this ruling on our business are not yet fully realized. In addition, some international governments and regulators support additional limitations on food and beverage advertising to children, including OFCOM in the United Kingdom, which has restricted certain television advertisement, and certain international restrictions on alcohol advertising and the amount of advertising permitted on commercial networks are under consideration. Laws in some non U.S. jurisdictions differ in significant respects from those in the United States, and the enforcement of such laws can be inconsistent and unpredictable. This could impact our ability to expand our operations and undertake activities that we believe are beneficial to our business. 25 Table of Contents Changes to our Business Could Result in Future Costs or Charges We periodically adjust our business strategy in response to particular events and circumstances, including the business environment, industry changes, technological developments, competitive factors and economic conditions. In connection with the implementation of new strategies, we may decide to restructure certain of our operations, businesses or assets, and there can be no assurance that these actions will not be disruptive to our ordinary business activities. In addition, external events, such as reduced revenues resulting from changes in macro economic conditions, conditions in our markets or increases in costs, could negatively affect the value of our assets. Such events could result in restructuring and other charges, including the impairment of certain assets, programming write downs and or the incurrence of additional costs. The Loss of Affiliation Agreements, Renewal on Less Favorable Terms or Adverse Interpretations Could Cause Our Revenues to Decline in Any Given Period or in Specific Markets We are dependent upon our affiliation agreements with cable television operators, satellite operators, online content distributors, mobile networks and other distributors for the distribution of our programming and program services. We have agreements in place with the major cable and satellite distributors and online content distributors, but there can be no assurance that these agreements will be renewed in the future on terms, including pricing, acceptable to us. The loss of a significant number of these arrangements, or the loss of carriage on the most widely available cable and satellite programming tiers, could reduce the distribution of our programming and program services and decrease the potential audience for our programs, thereby negatively affecting our growth prospects and revenues from advertising and affiliate fees. In addition, as these affiliate agreements have grown in complexity, the number of disputes regarding the interpretation of the agreements has grown, resulting in greater uncertainty and, from time to time, costly litigation to enforce our rights. The Loss of Key Talent Could Disrupt Our Business and Adversely Affect Our Revenues Our business depends upon the continued efforts, abilities and expertise of our corporate and divisional executive teams and entertainment personalities. We employ or contract with several entertainment personalities with loyal audiences and we produce motion pictures with highly regarded directors, producers, actors and other talent. These individuals are important to achieving audience endorsement of our programs, motion pictures and other content. There can be no assurance that these individuals will remain with us or will retain their current appeal, or that the costs associated with retaining talent will be reasonable. If we fail to retain these individuals on current terms or if our entertainment personalities lose their current appeal, our revenues and profitability could be adversely affected. We Could Be Adversely Affected by Strikes and Other Union Activity We and our suppliers engage the services of writers, directors, actors and other talent, trade employees and others who are subject to collective bargaining agreements. Any labor disputes may disrupt our operations and reduce our revenues, and we may not be able to negotiate favorable terms for a renewal, which could increase our costs. International Political and Economic Risks Could Harm Our Financial Condition Our and our partners businesses operate and have customers worldwide, and we are focused on expanding our international operations in key markets, some of which are emerging markets. Inherent risks of doing business in international markets include, among other risks, changes in the economic environment, export and market access restrictions, currency exchange controls and or fluctuations, taxation rules and procedures, tariffs or other trade barriers, permit requirements, longer payment cycles, corruption and, in some markets, increased risk of political instability. In particular, foreign currency fluctuations against the U.S. Dollar affect our results both positively and negatively, which may cause results to fluctuate. Furthermore, some foreign markets where we and our partners operate may be more adversely affected by economic conditions than the United States. We also 26 Table of Contents may incur substantial costs as a result of changes in the existing economic or political environment in the regions where we do business, including the imposition of new restrictions. Acts of terrorism or other hostilities, or other financial, political, economic or other uncertainties, could lead to a reduction in revenue or loss of investment, which could adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations. The Failure or Destruction of Satellites and Facilities that We Depend Upon to Distribute Our Programming Could Adversely Affect Our Business and Results of Operations We use satellite systems to transmit our program services to cable television operators and other distributors worldwide. The distribution facilities include uplinks, communications satellites and downlinks. Notwithstanding certain back up and redundant systems, transmissions may be disrupted as a result of local events that impair on ground uplinks or downlinks, or as a result of an impairment of a satellite. Currently, there are a limited number of communications satellites available for the transmission of programming. If a disruption occurs, we may not be able to secure alternate distribution facilities in a timely manner. Failure to do so could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. Our Obligations Related to Guarantees, Litigation and Joint Ventures Could Adversely Impact Our Financial Condition We have both recorded and potential liabilities and costs related to discontinued operations and former businesses, including, among other things, potential liabilities to landlords if Famous Players Inc. defaults on certain theater leases. We have also made certain investments in joint ventures and have future funding obligations, which may not be recouped until well after our initial investment, if at all. We are also involved in pending and threatened legal proceedings from time to time, the outcome of which is inherently uncertain and difficult to predict. It is uncertain at what point any of these or new liabilities may affect us, and there can be no assurance that our reserves are sufficient to cover these liabilities in their entirety or any one of these liabilities when it becomes due. Therefore, there can be no assurance that these liabilities will not have an adverse effect on our financial condition. Sales and Pledges of Shares of Common Stock by National Amusements Could Adversely Affect the Stock Price National Amusements, Inc. (NAI), which is controlled by our Executive Chairman and Founder, Sumner Redstone, has voting control of Viacom through its beneficial ownership of approximately 79% of our outstanding Class A common stock. Based on information provided to us by NAI, the shares of our Class A common stock beneficially owned by NAI are owned by NAI directly and NAI Entertainment Holdings LLC (NAI EH), a wholly owned subsidiary of NAI. The shares of Class A common stock owned by NAI EH, which represent approximately 28% of our outstanding Class A common stock, are pledged to NAIs lenders in connection with a restructuring of NAIs indebtedness. If NAI defaults on its obligations and the creditors foreclose on the collateral, the creditors or anyone to whom the creditors transfer such shares could sell, and or convert to non voting Class B common stock and sell, such shares of our voting Class A common stock, which could adversely affect the stock price. Although NAI has advised us that it does not currently intend to sell or pledge any additional shares, there can be no assurance that it will not do so at some future time, which could adversely affect the stock price. Through NAIs Voting Control of Viacom and CBS Corporation, Certain Members of Management, Directors and Stockholders May Face Actual or Potential Conflicts of Interest, and NAI is in a Position to Control Actions that Require Stockholder Approval Mr. Redstone, the controlling stockholder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of NAI, serves as our Executive Chairman and Founder. Shari Redstone, Mr. Redstones daughter, is the President and a director of NAI and serves as the non executive Vice Chair of our Board of Directors. Philippe Dauman, our President and Chief Executive Officer, is a director of NAI, and George Abrams, one of our directors, is a director of NAI. NAI 27 Table of Contents also controls CBS Corporation, with Mr. Redstone serving as its Executive Chairman and Founder and Ms. Redstone serving as its non executive Vice Chair. Frederic Salerno, one of our directors, is also a director of CBS Corporation. The NAI ownership structure and the common directors could create, or appear to create, potential conflicts of interest when the management, directors and controlling stockholder of the commonly controlled entities face decisions that could have different implications for each entity. For example, potential conflicts of interest could arise in connection with the resolution of any dispute between us and CBS Corporation. Potential conflicts of interest, or the appearance thereof, could also arise when we and CBS Corporation enter into any commercial arrangements with each other, despite review by our directors not affiliated with CBS Corporation. Our certificate of incorporation and the CBS Corporation certificate of incorporation both contain provisions related to corporate opportunities that may be of interest to us and to CBS Corporation, and these provisions create the possibility that a corporate opportunity of one company may be used for the benefit of the other company. In addition, NAIs voting control of us allows it to control the outcome of corporate actions that require stockholder approval, including the election of directors and transactions involving a change in control. For so long as NAI retains voting control of us, our stockholders other than NAI will be unable to affect the outcome of our corporate actions. The interests of NAI may not be the same as the interests of our other stockholders, who must rely on our independent directors to represent their interests. We, NAI and CBS Corporation, and our Respective Businesses, Are Attributable to Each Other for Certain Regulatory Purposes Which May Limit Business Opportunities or Impose Additional Costs So long as we, NAI and CBS Corporation are under common control, each companys businesses, as well as the businesses of any other commonly controlled company, may be attributable to the other companies for purposes of U.S. and non U.S. antitrust rules and regulations, certain rules and regulations of the FCC and certain rules regarding political campaign contributions in the United States, among others. The businesses of each company may continue to be attributable to the other companies for FCC purposes even after the companies cease to be commonly controlled, if the companies share common officers, directors, or attributable stockholders. As a result, the businesses and conduct of any of these other companies may have the effect of limiting the activities or strategic business alternatives available to us, including limitations to which we contractually agreed in connection with our separation from CBS Corporation, or may impose additional costs on us. Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments. Not applicable. Item 2. Properties. In addition to the properties described below, we own and lease office, studio, production and warehouse space and broadcast, antenna and satellite transmission facilities throughout the United States and around the world for our businesses. We consider our properties adequate for our present needs. Viacom Our world headquarters is located at 1515 Broadway, New York, New York, where we rent approximately 1.4 million square feet for executive, administrative and business offices for the Company and certain of our operating divisions. The lease runs through May 2015, with three renewal options based on market rates at the time of renewal for five years each thereafter. 28 Table of Contents Viacom Media Networks In addition to occupying space at 1515 Broadway in New York, we lease the following major office facilities: (a) approximately 400,000 square feet at 345 Hudson Street, New York, New York, through 2022, (b) approximately 227,000 square feet at three facilities in Santa Monica, California, under leases that expire between 2011 and 2017 and (c) approximately 278,000 square feet at 1540 Broadway, New York, New York, through 2021. Viacom Media Networks Network Operation Center is located in Hauppauge, New York, and contains approximately 65,000 square feet of floor space on approximately 9 acres of land. The Nickelodeon Animation Studio in Burbank, California, contains approximately 134,000 square feet of studio and office space, under leases that expire between 2011 and 2018. CMTs headquarters are located in Nashville, Tennessee, where it occupies approximately 88,000 square feet of space for its executive, administrative and business offices and its studios, under leases that expire between 2012 and 2013. BETs headquarters at One BET Plaza in Washington, D.C. contains approximately 192,000 square feet of office and studio space, the majority of which is leased pursuant to ground leases through 2013 (with three 15 year renewal options) and the balance of which is owned. Internationally, Viacom Media Networks (i) leases approximately 84,000 square feet of space in Berlin through a lease expiring in 2017 and (ii) occupies approximately 80,000 square feet of space at its owned Hawley Crescent facility in London. Paramount Paramount owns the Paramount Pictures Studio situated at 5555 Melrose Avenue, Los Angeles, California, located on approximately 62 acres of land, and containing approximately 1.85 million square feet of floor space used for executive, administrative and business offices, sound stages, production facilities, theatres, equipment facilities and other ancillary uses. Paramount recently announced a planned 25 year expansion and revitalization project for its studio. Paramount Pictures International has offices in Chiswick, West London, where it leases approximately 51,000 square feet of space used for executive, administrative and business offices and a viewing cinema through 2017. Item 3. Legal Proceedings. Litigation is inherently uncertain and always difficult to predict. However, based on our understanding and evaluation of the relevant facts and circumstances, we believe that the legal matters described below and other litigation to which we are a party are not likely, in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on our results of continuing operations, financial position or operating cash flows. In March 2007, we filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against Google Inc. (Google) and its wholly owned subsidiary YouTube, alleging that Google and YouTube violated and continue to violate the Companys copyrights. We are seeking both damages and injunctive relief. In March 2010, we and Google filed motions for summary judgment, and in June 2010, Googles motion was granted. The District Court decision has been appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and the appeal has been fully briefed. We believe we have a meritorious appeal. In September 2007, Brantley, et al. v. NBC Universal, Inc., et al. was filed in the United States District Court for the Central District of California against us and several other program content providers on behalf of a purported 29 Table of Contents nationwide class of cable and satellite subscribers. The plaintiffs also sued several major cable and satellite program distributors. Plaintiffs allege that separate contracts between the program providers and the cable and satellite operator defendants providing for the sale of programming in specific tiers each unreasonably restrain trade in a variety of markets in violation of the Sherman Act. In June 2011, the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed the District Courts decision dismissing, with prejudice, the plaintiffs third amended complaint. The plaintiffs filed a petition for a rehearing of the case by the full Court of Appeals and oral argument was heard in October 2011. On October 31, 2011, the Court of Appeals withdrew its decision in light of the subsequent death of one of the judges on the panel. Another judge of the court will replace the deceased judge. In light of this development, the motion for a rehearing before the entire court was dismissed as moot. We believe the plaintiffs position in this litigation is without merit and intend to continue to vigorously defend this lawsuit. Our 2006 acquisition agreement with Harmonix Music Systems, Inc. (Harmonix), a developer of music based games, including the Rock Band franchise, provided that to the extent financial results exceeded specific contractual targets against a defined gross profit metric for the calendar years 2007 and 2008, former Harmonix shareholders would be eligible for incremental earn out payments. In 2008, we paid $150 million, subject to adjustment, under this earn out agreement related to 2007 performance. The final amount of the earn out related to 2007 and 2008 performance has not yet been determined and a private dispute resolution process before an accounting expert is expected to conclude in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012. Our position in the dispute resolution process is that approximately $130 million of the earlier $150 million payment was not earned and that no payment is owed with respect to 2008 performance. The shareholder representative has claimed that we owe an additional $700 million with respect to 2007 and 2008 performance. We strongly disagree with the position of the shareholder representative and have filed a lawsuit in the Court of Chancery for the State of Delaware against certain of the former Harmonix shareholders seeking a refund of a substantial portion of the $150 million payment. Accordingly, we have not recorded a reserve as of September 30, 2011. Kraft Group LLC, an entity related to Robert Kraft, a member of our Board of Directors, was a beneficial holder of less than 1.8% of the Harmonix shares prior to, and at the time of, our 2006 acquisition of Harmonix. Kraft Group LLC acquired the shares several years prior to Mr. Kraft becoming a member of our Board of Directors. In December 2010, the Harmonix shareholder representative filed a lawsuit in the Court of Chancery for the State of Delaware seeking the release of approximately $13 million, which is being held in escrow to secure the shareholder representatives indemnification obligations to us under the acquisition agreement and damages in respect of certain other claims. In May 2011, we filed a motion to dismiss the portion of the shareholder representatives amended complaint that relates to the other claims and a decision is pending. We believe the shareholder representatives position in this proceeding is without merit and are vigorously defending this lawsuit. OUR EXECUTIVE OFFICERS The following table sets forth the name, age and position of each person who serves as a Viacom executive officer. Name Age Position Sumner M. Redstone 88 Executive Chairman of the Board and Founder James W. Barge 56 Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer Philippe P. Dauman 57 President and Chief Executive Officer; Director Thomas E. Dooley 55 Senior Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer; Director Carl D. Folta 54 Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications Michael D. Fricklas 51 Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary Katherine Gill Charest 47 Senior Vice President, Controller DeDe Lea 46 Executive Vice President, Government Relations Denise White 57 Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Administration 30 Table of Contents Information about each person who serves as an executive officer of our company is set forth below. Sumner M. Redstone Mr. Redstone has been our Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors and Founder since January 1, 2006. He has also served as Executive Chairman and Founder of CBS Corporation since January 1, 2006. He was Chairman of the Board of Former Viacom beginning in 1987 and Chief Executive Officer of Former Viacom from 1996 to 2005. He has been Chairman of the Board of National Amusements, Inc., our controlling stockholder, since 1986, its Chief Executive Officer since 1967 and also served as its President from 1967 through 1999. Mr. Redstone served as the first Chairman of the Board of the National Association of Theatre Owners and is currently a member of its Executive Committee. He has been a frequent lecturer at universities, including Harvard Law School, Boston University Law School and Brandeis University. Mr. Redstone graduated from Harvard University in 1944 and received an LL.B. from Harvard University School of Law in 1947. Upon graduation, he served as law secretary with the U.S. Court of Appeals and then as a special assistant to the U.S. Attorney General. Mr. Redstone served in the Military Intelligence Division during World War II. While a student at Harvard, he was selected to join a special intelligence group whose mission was to break Japans high level military and diplomatic codes. Mr. Redstone received, among other honors, two commendations from the Military Intelligence Division in recognition of his service, contribution and devotion to duty, and the Army Commendation Award. James W. Barge Mr. Barge has been our Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer since October 1, 2010. He served as our Executive Vice President, Tax and Treasury from January 2008 to September 2010 and as our Controller from March 2008 to September 2010. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Barge served as Senior Vice President, Controller and principal accounting officer of Time Warner Inc. beginning in mid 2002. He previously held various financial positions with Time Warner Inc. since first joining the company in 1995. Mr. Barge is a member of the board of directors of Scholastic Corporation. Philippe P. Dauman Mr. Dauman has been our President and Chief Executive Officer since September 2006 and a member of our Board of Directors since January 1, 2006, having previously served as a director of Former Viacom since 1987. Mr. Dauman was Co Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of DND Capital Partners, L.L.C., a private equity firm specializing in media and telecommunications investments that he co founded with Mr. Dooley, from May 2000 until September 2006. Prior to that, Mr. Dauman held several positions at Former Viacom, which he first joined in 1993, including Deputy Chairman and member of its Executive Committee. Mr. Dauman is also a director of National Amusements, Inc. and has served as a director of Lafarge S.A. since 2007. 31 Table of Contents Thomas E. Dooley Mr. Dooley has been our Senior Executive Vice President since September 2006, our Chief Operating Officer since May 2010 and a member of our Board of Directors since January 1, 2006. He served as our Chief Administrative Officer from September 2006 to May 2010 and as our Chief Financial Officer from January 2007 to September 2010. Mr. Dooley was Co Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of DND Capital Partners, L.L.C., a private equity firm specializing in media and telecommunications investments that he co founded with Mr. Dauman, from May 2000 until September 2006. Before that, Mr. Dooley held various corporate and divisional positions at Former Viacom, which he first joined in 1980, including Deputy Chairman and member of its Executive Committee. Mr. Dooley served as a director of Sapphire Industrials Corp. from 2007 to 2010 and LaBranche & Co Inc. from 2000 to 2007. Carl D. Folta Mr. Folta has been our Executive Vice President, Corporate Communications since November 2006. Prior to that, he served as Executive Vice President, Office of the Chairman beginning January 1, 2006. He has served in senior communications positions with the Company since April 1994 and was appointed Executive Vice President, Corporate Relations, of Former Viacom in November 2004. Mr. Folta held various communications positions at Paramount Communications Inc., a predecessor, from 1984 to 1994. Michael D. Fricklas Mr. Fricklas has been our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since January 1, 2006. Prior to that, he was Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of Former Viacom beginning in May 2000 and Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from October 1998 to May 2000. He first joined Former Viacom in July 1993, serving as Vice President and Deputy General Counsel and assuming the title of Senior Vice President in July 1994. Katherine Gill Charest Ms. Gill Charest has been our Senior Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer since October 1, 2010. Prior to that, she was Senior Vice President, Deputy Controller beginning in April 2010 and Vice President, Deputy Controller from May 2007 to April 2010. Prior to joining Viacom, Ms. Gill Charest served as Chief Accounting Officer of WPP Group USA from November 2005 to May 2007 and as its Vice President, Group Reporting from February 2001 to November 2005. DeDe Lea Ms. Lea has been our Executive Vice President, Government Relations since January 1, 2006. Previously, she was Executive Vice President, Government Relations of Former Viacom beginning in September 2005. Prior to that, she served as Vice President of Government Affairs at Belo Corp. from 2004 to 2005 and as Vice President, Government Affairs of Former Viacom from 1997 to 2004. Denise White Ms. White has been our Executive Vice President, Human Resources and Administration since October 2007. Previously, she was General Manager at Microsofts Entertainment and Devices Division, having first joined Microsoft in 1990. Prior to Microsoft, Ms. White was a human resources leader with Pan American World Airways and owned a human resources consulting firm. 32 Table of Contents PART II Item 5. Market for Viacom Inc.s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. Our voting Class A common stock and non voting Class B common stock are listed and traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbols VIA and VIA.B, respectively. The table below shows, for the periods indicated, the high and low sales prices per share of our Class A and Class B common stock as reported in Thomson Financial markets services. Sales Price Low High Class A common stock 2011 4th Quarter $ 47.86 $ 59.45 3rd Quarter $ 52.21 $ 60.90 2nd Quarter $ 45.75 $ 53.50 1st Quarter $ 39.52 $ 46.58 Class A common stock 2010 3rd Quarter $ 34.09 $ 40.96 2nd Quarter $ 34.55 $ 41.79 1st Quarter $ 29.61 $ 37.25 Class B common stock 2011 4th Quarter $ 38.71 $ 52.67 3rd Quarter $ 46.73 $ 51.93 2nd Quarter $ 39.65 $ 47.34 1st Quarter $ 35.70 $ 40.25 Class B common stock 2010 3rd Quarter $ 30.24 $ 36.99 2nd Quarter $ 30.70 $ 37.07 1st Quarter $ 27.89 $ 34.78 We paid cash dividends on our Class A and Class B common stock of (i) $0.15 per share on each of July 1, October 1 and December 30, 2010, and April 1, 2011 and (ii) $0.25 per share on each of July 1 and October 3, 2011. As of October 31, 2011, there were 1,731 record holders of our Class A common stock and 27,531 record holders of our Class B common stock. 33 Table of Contents Performance Graph The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return of our Class A common stock and our Class B common stock with the cumulative total stockholder return of the companies listed in the Standard & Poors 500 Index and a peer group of companies comprised of The Walt Disney Company, News Corporation, Time Warner Inc., CBS Corporation, Discovery Communications, Inc. and Scripps Network Interactive Inc. The performance graph assumes $100 invested on December 31, 2006 in each of our Class A common stock, our Class B common stock, the S&P 500 Index and the stock of our peer group companies, including reinvestment of dividends, for each calendar year in the period from January 1, 2007 through December 31, 2009, for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, and the year ended September 30, 2011. Total Cumulative Stockholder Return for the Years Ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, the Nine Months Ended September 30, 2010 and the Year Ended September 30, 2011 12/31/06 12/31/07 12/31/08 12/31/09 9/30/10 9/30/11 Class A Common 100.00 107.24 49.06 76.81 98.12 120.08 Class B Common 100.00 107.04 46.45 72.46 88.57 96.52 S&P 500 100.00 103.53 63.69 78.62 80.46 79.77 Peer Group 100.00 89.79 51.87 79.26 90.73 92.26 34 Table of Contents Share Repurchases The following table provides information about our purchases of Viacom Class B common stock during the quarter ended September 30, 2011 under the $4.0 billion stock repurchase program that we announced on June 9, 2010. On November 9, 2011, our Board of Directors authorized an increase in the funds available under the program to $10.0 billion, leaving $7.2 billion of remaining capacity. Open Market Purchases Total Numberof SharesPurchased(thousands) Average PricePaid per Share(dollars) ApproximateDollar Value ofShares that MayYet Be PurchasedUnder Program(millions) Month ended July 31, 2011 4,408 $ 50.86 $ 2,176 Month ended August 31, 2011 7,175 $ 44.49 $ 1,857 Month ended September 30, 2011 8,096 $ 44.04 $ 1,500 Equity Compensation Plan Information Information required by this item will be contained in the Proxy Statement for our 2012 Annual Meeting of Stockholders under the heading Equity Compensation Plan Information, which information is incorporated herein by reference. Item 6. Selected Financial Data. The selected Consolidated Statement of Earnings data for the year ended September 30, 2011, the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and the year ended December 31, 2009 and the Consolidated Balance Sheet data as of September 30, 2011 and 2010 should be read in conjunction with the audited financial statements, Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (MD&A) and other financial information presented elsewhere in this report. The selected Consolidated Statement of Earnings data for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007 and the Consolidated Balance Sheet data as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007 have been derived from audited financial statements not included herein. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS DATA (in millions, except per share amounts) Year Ended September 30, 2011 Nine Months Ended September 30, 2010 Year Ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 Revenues $ 14,914 $ 9,337 $ 13,257 $ 13,947 $ 13,186 Operating income $ 3,710 $ 2,207 $ 3,045 $ 2,562 $ 2,895 Net earnings from continuing operations (Viacom and noncontrolling interests) $ 2,183 $ 1,185 $ 1,655 $ 1,274 $ 1,625 Net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom $ 2,146 $ 1,175 $ 1,678 $ 1,257 $ 1,604 Net earnings from continuing operations per share attributable to Viacom: Basic $ 3.65 $ 1.93 $ 2.76 $ 2.01 $ 2.38 Diluted $ 3.61 $ 1.92 $ 2.76 $ 2.01 $ 2.37 Weighted average number of common shares outstanding: Basic 587.3 608.0 607.1 624.7 674.1 Diluted 594.3 610.7 608.3 625.4 675.6 Dividends declared per share of Class A and Class B common stock $ 0.80 $ 0.30 $ $ $ 35 Table of Contents CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET DATA September 30, December 31, (in millions) 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 Total assets $ 22,801 $ 22,096 $ 21,900 $ 22,487 $ 22,904 Total debt $ 7,365 $ 6,752 $ 6,773 $ 8,002 $ 8,246 Total Viacom stockholders equity $ 8,644 $ 9,283 $ 8,704 $ 6,909 $ 6,911 Total equity $ 8,633 $ 9,259 $ 8,677 $ 6,923 $ 6,919 Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition. Managements discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition is provided as a supplement to and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes to enhance the understanding of our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. References in this document to Viacom, Company, we, us and our mean Viacom Inc. and our consolidated subsidiaries through which our various businesses are conducted, unless the context requires otherwise. Certain amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2011 presentation. Significant components of the managements discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition section include: Page Overview. The overview section provides a summary of Viacom and our reportable business segments and the principal factors affecting our results of operations. 37 Results of Operations. The results of operations section provides an analysis of our results on a consolidated basis and our reportable operating segment results for the years ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, and the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. In addition, we provide a discussion of items affecting the comparability of our financial statements. 40 Liquidity and Capital Resources. The liquidity and capital resources section provides a discussion of our cash flows for the years ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, and the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 and of our outstanding debt, commitments and contingencies existing as of September 30, 2011. 56 Market Risk. We are principally exposed to market risk related to foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The market risk section discusses how we manage exposure to these and other market risks. 63 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. The critical accounting policies section provides detail with respect to accounting policies that are considered by management to require significant judgment and use of estimates and that could have a significant impact on our financial statements. 64 Other Matters. The other matters section provides a discussion of related party transactions and agreements. 69 36 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) OVERVIEW Summary We are a leading global entertainment content company that connects with audiences through compelling content across television, motion picture, online and mobile platforms in more than 160 countries and territories. In 2010, we changed our fiscal year end to September 30 from December 31. We made this change to better align our financial reporting period, as well as our annual planning and budgeting process, with our business cycle, particularly the cable broadcast year. This Annual Report on Form 10 K reports our financial results for the year ended September 30, 2011 (our first full fiscal year since the change), the nine month transition period from January 1, 2010 through September 30, 2010 and the year ended December 31, 2009. For purposes of comparison, we have included the unaudited financial results for the year ended September 30, 2010 (which reflects our combined results for the quarter ended December 31, 2009 and the nine month transition period from January 1, 2010 through September 30, 2010) and nine months ended September 30, 2009. See Note 19 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. We manage our operations through two reporting segments: Media Networks and Filmed Entertainment. Our measure of segment performance is adjusted operating income (loss). We define adjusted operating income (loss) for our segments as operating income (loss), less equity based compensation and certain other items identified as affecting comparability, including restructuring charges and asset impairment, when applicable (Factors Affecting Comparability). Equity based compensation is excluded from our segment measure of performance since it is set and approved by the Compensation Committee of Viacoms Board of Directors in consultation with corporate executive management, and is included as a component of consolidated adjusted operating income. We use consolidated adjusted operating income, adjusted net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom and adjusted diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations, as applicable, among other measures, to evaluate our actual operating performance and for planning and forecasting of future periods. We believe that the adjusted results provide relevant and useful information for investors because they clarify our actual operating performance, make it easier to compare Viacoms results with those of other companies and allow investors to review performance in the same way as our management. Since these are not measures of performance calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), they should not be considered in isolation of, or as a substitute for operating income, net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom and diluted EPS as indicators of operating performance and they may not be comparable to similarly titled measures employed by other companies. For a reconciliation of our adjusted measures and discussion of the items affecting comparability refer to the section entitled Factors Affecting Comparability. Media Networks Our Media Networks segment, which includes brands such as MTV, VH1, CMT, Logo, Nickelodeon, Nick Jr., TeenNick, Nicktoons, Nick at Nite, Neopets, COMEDY CENTRAL, TV Land, Spike TV, Tr3s, BET, CENTRIC, AddictingGames and Shockwave, provides entertainment content and related branded products for consumers in targeted demographics attractive to advertisers, content distributors and retailers. We create, acquire and distribute programming and other content to our audiences across multiple platforms, which allows them to engage with our content how and where they want to view and interact with it: on television, online and on mobile devices and through a variety of consumer products. Our Media Networks segment generates revenues principally in three categories: (i) the sale of advertising time related to our content and associated marketing services, (ii) affiliate fees from cable television operators, 37 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) direct to home satellite television operators, digital distributors and mobile networks and (iii) ancillary revenues, which include consumer products licensing, brand licensing, home entertainment sales of our programming, television syndication and casual gaming. Our advertising revenues may be affected by the strength of advertising markets and general economic conditions and may fluctuate depending on the success of our programming, as measured by viewership, at any given time. Advertising revenues may also fluctuate due to seasonal variations, typically being highest in the first quarter of our fiscal year. Our affiliate agreements with cable and satellite operators are generally multi year carriage agreements with set rate increases that provide us with a reasonably stable source of revenues. The amount of the fees we receive is generally a function of the number of subscribers and the rates we receive per subscriber. Expirations of our affiliate agreements are staggered. Digital distribution agreements typically cover a large amount of programming and provide for various dates upon which each program becomes available for distribution on the digital platform. Revenue from these arrangements is recognized upon program availability and will fluctuate quarterly depending on the availability of the programs licensed. Digital distribution agreements are generally for a shorter term than carriage agreements with traditional cable and satellite operators. Our ancillary revenues vary based on consumer spending, the popularity of our programming, volume of content available for sale during a particular period and acceptance of our or our partners products. Media Networks segment expenses consist of operating expenses, selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses and depreciation and amortization. Operating expenses comprise costs related to original and acquired programming, including programming amortization, expenses associated with the manufacturing and distribution of home entertainment products and consumer products licensing, participation fees and other costs of sales. SG&A expenses consist primarily of employee compensation, marketing, research and professional service fees and facility and occupancy costs. Depreciation and amortization expenses reflect depreciation of fixed assets, including transponders financed under capital leases, and amortization of finite lived intangible assets. In December 2010, we completed the sale of Harmonix Music Systems, Inc. (Harmonix), a developer of music based games, including the Rock Band franchise. Accordingly, the results of operations of Harmonix, which were previously included in the Media Networks segment are presented as discontinued operations in all periods presented. Filmed Entertainment Our Filmed Entertainment segment produces, finances and distributes motion pictures and other entertainment content under the Paramount Pictures, Paramount Vantage, Paramount Classics, Insurge Pictures, MTV Films, and Nickelodeon Movies brands. Paramount also acquires films for distribution and has distribution relationships with third parties, including DreamWorks Animation SKG, Inc. (DreamWorks Animation). In fiscal year 2011, Paramount distributed the final two theatrical titles under its distribution arrangement with MVL Productions LLC (Marvel), now a subsidiary of The Walt Disney Company. In general, motion pictures produced, acquired and or distributed by our Filmed Entertainment segment are exhibited theatrically domestically and internationally, followed by their release in various windows on DVD and Blu ray, video on demand, subscription video on demand, pay and basic cable television, broadcast television and syndicated television, and, in some cases, by other exhibitors such as airlines and hotels (the distribution windows). In fiscal year 2011, the Filmed Entertainment segment theatrically released in domestic and or 38 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) international markets Transformers: Dark of the Moon, Super 8, True Grit and Rango, among others. Paramount also distributed Marvels Thor and Captain America: The First Avenger and DreamWorks Animations Kung Fu Panda 2 and Megamind. Our Filmed Entertainment segment generates revenues worldwide principally from: (i) the theatrical release and or distribution of motion pictures, (ii) home entertainment, which includes sales of DVD, Blu ray and other products relating to the motion pictures we release theatrically and direct to DVD, as well as certain other programming, including content we distribute on behalf of third parties, (iii) television and digital license fees paid worldwide by third parties for film exhibition rights during the various other distribution windows and through digital distributors and (iv) ancillary revenues from providing production services to third parties, primarily at Paramounts studio lot, licensing of its brands for consumer products and theme parks, distribution of content specifically developed for digital platforms and game distribution. Revenues from motion picture theatrical releases tend to be cyclical with increases during the summer months and around holidays, particularly in the first quarter of our fiscal year. The theatrical success of a motion picture is a significant factor in determining the revenues it is likely to generate in home entertainment sales and licensing fees during the various other distribution windows. Our home entertainment revenues may also be affected by the number, timing and mix of home entertainment releases in any given period, consumer tastes and consumption habits, the prominence given by distributors and retailers to our releases compared to those of our competitors, and by overall economic conditions, including consumer preference for rental or purchase and trends in discretionary spending. The industry continues to experience softness in the DVD market as a result of several factors, including the maturation of the standard definition DVD format, the emergence of various digital distribution platforms and weakness in the overall economy. We continue to focus on our inventory and supply chain management by carefully managing initial and replenishment shipments on home entertainment new releases, shelf space needs for catalog titles and other promotional and operating strategic initiatives. The output term of Paramounts agreement with DreamWorks Animation expires on the later of the delivery of 13 qualified animated motion pictures and December 31, 2012, subject to earlier termination under certain limited circumstances. Paramount has distributed 11 DreamWorks Animation films under the agreement and expects to distribute the last two films under the current agreement in fiscal year 2012. In October 2010, Paramount and Marvel amended the arrangement under which Paramount distributes certain of Marvels self produced feature films on a worldwide basis. Paramount transferred to Marvel substantially all of its worldwide distribution rights to The Avengers and all of its worldwide distribution rights to Iron Man 3, in exchange for aggregate minimum guaranteed payments to Paramount of $115 million and the right for Paramount to receive certain contingent consideration. Paramount retained its distribution rights to Thor and Captain America: The First Avenger, which were released in fiscal year 2011, and to the previously released Iron Man and Iron Man 2. Filmed Entertainment segment expenses consist of operating expenses, SG&A expenses and depreciation and amortization. Operating expenses principally include the amortization of film costs of our released feature films (including participations accrued under our third party distribution arrangements), print and advertising expenses and other distribution costs. We incur marketing costs before and throughout the theatrical release of a film and, to a lesser extent, other distribution windows. Such costs are incurred to generate public interest in our films and are expensed as incurred; therefore, we typically incur losses with respect to a particular film prior to and during the films theatrical exhibition and profitability may not be realized until well after a films theatrical release. 39 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Therefore, the results of the Filmed Entertainment segment can be volatile as films work their way through the various distribution windows. SG&A expenses include employee compensation, facility and occupancy costs, professional service fees and other overhead costs. Depreciation and amortization expense includes depreciation of fixed assets and amortization of finite lived intangible assets. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Year ended September 30, 2011 vs. 2010 Consolidated Results of Operations Our summary consolidated results of operations are presented below for the years ended September 30, 2011 and 2010. As previously noted, the year ended September 30, 2010 reflects our unaudited combined results for the quarter ended December 31, 2009 and the nine month transition period from January 1, 2010 through September 30, 2010. Year Ended September 30, Better/(Worse) (in millions, except per share amounts) 2011 2010 $ % Revenues $ 14,914 $ 13,356 $ 1,558 12 % Operating income 3,710 3,348 362 11 Adjusted operating income 3,854 3,408 446 13 Net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom 2,146 1,899 247 13 Adjusted net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom 2,247 1,841 406 22 Diluted EPS from continuing operations 3.61 3.11 0.50 16 Adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations $ 3.78 $ 3.02 $ 0.76 25 % See the section entitled Factors Affecting Comparability for a reconciliation of our adjusted measures to our reported results. Revenues Worldwide revenues increased $1.558 billion, or 12%, to $14.914 billion in the year ended September 30, 2011. Media Networks contributed $814 million of the increase reflecting higher advertising and affiliate revenues. Filmed Entertainment contributed $770 million of the increase, principally reflecting higher theatrical and ancillary revenues, partially offset by lower home entertainment revenues. Operating Income Adjusted operating income increased $446 million, or 13%, to $3.854 billion in the year ended September 30, 2011. Media Networks adjusted operating income increased $467 million, principally reflecting the increased revenues, partially offset by increased expenses. Filmed Entertainment was substantially flat. Adjusted results for the year ended September 30, 2011 exclude the impact of $144 million of restructuring charges, principally related to workforce reductions, while the adjusted results for the year ended September 30, 2010 exclude the impact of a $60 million asset impairment. Including the impact of the current year restructuring charges and prior year asset impairment, operating income increased $362 million, or 11%, in the year ended September 30, 2011. See the section entitled Segment Results of Operations for a more in depth discussion of the revenues, expenses and adjusted operating income for each of the Media Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments. Net Earnings from Continuing Operations Attributable to Viacom Adjusted net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom increased $406 million, or 22%, in the year ended September 30, 2011, principally due to the increase in tax effected adjusted operating income 40 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) described above and higher equity income principally due to EPIX generating equity income this year as compared with losses in the prior year. Our effective income tax rate was 34.3% in the year ended September 30, 2011, as compared with 35.9% in the year ended September 30, 2010, excluding the impact of discrete items. The reduction in this years effective rate is principally due to a change in mix of domestic and international income. Adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations increased $0.76 per diluted share to $3.78. Including the impact of the current year restructuring charges, loss on extinguishment of debt and discrete tax benefits, and prior year asset impairment and discrete tax benefits, net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom increased $247 million, or 13%, in the year ended September 30, 2011. Diluted EPS from continuing operations increased $0.50 per diluted share to $3.61. See the section entitled Factors Affecting Comparability for a reconciliation of our adjusted measures to our reported results. Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax The loss from discontinued operations in both years was principally related to Harmonix. The $10 million loss in 2011 principally reflects the loss on the disposal of Harmonix and the Harmonix operating loss for the period through the date of sale, partially offset by the related tax benefit. The $351 million loss in 2010 principally reflects a $230 million impairment loss on Harmonix goodwill and other charges of approximately $30 million, principally related to unamortized development costs and other assets associated with legacy versions of the Rock Band game. Segment Results of Operations Transactions between reportable segments are accounted for as third party arrangements for the purposes of presenting segment results of operations. Typical intersegment transactions include the purchase of advertising by the Filmed Entertainment segment on Media Networks properties and the purchase of Filmed Entertainments feature films exhibition rights by Media Networks. Media Networks Year Ended September 30, Better/(Worse) (in millions) 2011 2010 $ % Revenues by Component Advertising $ 4,997 $ 4,553 $ 444 10 % Affiliate fees 3,519 3,138 381 12 Ancillary 629 640 (11) (2 ) Total revenues by component $ 9,145 $ 8,331 $ 814 10 % Expenses Operating $ 3,025 $ 2,822 $ (203) (7 )% Selling, general and administrative 2,095 1,927 (168) (9 ) Depreciation and amortization 177 201 24 12 Total expenses $ 5,297 $ 4,950 $ (347) (7 )% Adjusted Operating Income $ 3,848 $ 3,381 $ 467 14 % Revenues Worldwide revenues increased $814 million, or 10%, to $9.145 billion in the year ended September 30, 2011, driven by increases in advertising and affiliate revenues. Domestic revenues were $7.722 billion, an increase of $696 million, or 10%. International revenues were $1.423 billion, an increase of $118 million, or 9%. Foreign exchange had a 3 percentage point favorable impact on international revenues. 41 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Advertising Worldwide advertising revenues increased $444 million, or 10%, to $4.997 billion in the year ended September 30, 2011. Domestic advertising revenues increased 10%, reflecting the strength of last years upfront and this years scatter markets. International advertising revenues increased 9%, with a 3 percentage point favorable impact from foreign exchange on international growth. Affiliate Fees Worldwide affiliate fees increased $381 million, or 12%, to $3.519 billion in the year ended September 30, 2011. Domestic affiliate revenues increased 12%, principally reflecting rate increases. Domestic revenues also benefited from the availability of certain programming related to digital distribution arrangements. Excluding the impact of digital distribution arrangements, domestic affiliate revenue growth was in the high single digits. International affiliate revenues increased 11%, with a 4 percentage point favorable impact from foreign exchange on international growth. Expenses Media Networks segment expenses increased $347 million, or 7%, to $5.297 billion in the year ended September 30, 2011, driven by increases in programming and SG&A costs. Operating Operating expenses increased $203 million, or 7%, to $3.025 billion in the year ended September 30, 2011, principally driven by our continuing investment in programming. Programming expenses increased $187 million, or 7%. Selling, General and Administrative SG&A increased $168 million, or 9%, to $2.095 billion in the year ended September 30, 2011, principally reflecting higher employeerelated costs, including accrued incentive compensation costs associated with the improved operating performance, as well as higher advertising and promotional expenses related to marketing original programming. Adjusted Operating Income Adjusted operating income increased $467 million, or 14%, to $3.848 billion in the year ended September 30, 2011, principally reflecting the higher advertising and affiliate revenues, partially offset by our continuing investment in programming and higher SG&A costs. Filmed Entertainment Year Ended September 30, Better/(Worse) (in millions) 2011 2010 $ % Revenues by Component Theatrical $ 2,175 $ 1,376 $ 799 58 % Home entertainment 1,890 2,096 (206) (10 ) Television license fees 1,417 1,383 34 2 Ancillary 441 298 143 48 Total revenues by component $ 5,923 $ 5,153 $ 770 15 % Expenses Operating $ 4,997 $ 4,194 $ (803) (19 )% Selling, general & administrative 496 520 24 5 Depreciation & amortization 89 99 10 10 Total expenses $ 5,582 $ 4,813 $ (769) (16 )% Adjusted Operating Income $ 341 $ 340 $ 1 42 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Revenues Worldwide revenues increased $770 million, or 15%, to $5.923 billion in the year ended September 30, 2011, driven by higher theatrical and ancillary revenues, partially offset by lower home entertainment revenues. Domestic revenues were $2.960 billion, an increase of $346 million, or 13%. International revenues were $2.963 billion, an increase of $424 million, or 17%, with a 4 percentage point favorable impact from foreign exchange on international revenues. Theatrical Worldwide theatrical revenues increased $799 million, or 58%, to $2.175 billion in the year ended September 30, 2011, principally driven by the strength and number of our current year releases. During the year ended September 30, 2011, we released sixteen films, including Transformers: Dark of the Moon, DreamWorks Animations Kung Fu Panda 2, Marvels Thor and Captain America: The First Avenger, DreamWorks Animations Megamind, Super 8, True Grit, Rango, Jackass 3D and Paranormal Activity 2, as compared to thirteen films in the prior year. Domestic and international theatrical revenues increased 44% and 71%, respectively. Foreign exchange had a 9 percentage point favorable impact on international theatrical revenues. Home Entertainment Worldwide home entertainment revenues decreased $206 million, or 10%, to $1.890 billion in the year ended September 30, 2011. Current year releases included DreamWorks Animations How to Train Your Dragon, Shrek Forever After and Megamind, True Grit, The Last Airbender, Thor, Rango, and the domestic release of Transformers: Dark of the Moon on September 30, 2011. The decline was principally driven by lower catalog sales and lower revenues from other third party distribution arrangements. Domestic and international home entertainment revenues decreased 11% and 9%, respectively. Foreign exchange had a 3 percentage point favorable impact on international home entertainment revenues. Television License Fees Worldwide television license fees increased $34 million, or 2%, to $1.417 billion in the year ended September 30, 2011, driven by the number and mix of available titles. Ancillary Ancillary revenues increased $143 million, or 48%, to $441 million in the year ended September 30, 2011, principally driven by the sale of the distribution rights to The Avengers and Iron Man 3 to Marvel, as well as higher digital revenues. Expenses Filmed Entertainment segment expenses increased $769 million, or 16%, to $5.582 billion in the year ended September 30, 2011 due to the increase in operating expenses. Operating Operating expenses increased $803 million, or 19%, to $4.997 billion in the year ended September 30, 2011. Distribution and other costs, principally print and advertising expenses, increased $535 million, or 31%, principally due to the number and mix of theatrical releases. Film costs increased $268 million, or 11%, primarily reflecting higher participation costs, including third party distribution arrangements. Selling, General and Administrative SG&A decreased $24 million, or 5%, to $496 million in the year ended September 30, 2011, principally reflecting lower accrued incentive compensation costs. 43 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Adjusted Operating Income Adjusted operating income was substantially flat at $341 million in the year ended September 30, 2011, principally reflecting the benefit of the sale of the distribution rights to The Avengers and Iron Man 3 to Marvel offset by the lower home entertainment revenues. Nine Months ended September 30, 2010 vs. 2009 Consolidated Results of Operations Our summary consolidated results of operations are presented below for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009. Nine Months Ended September 30, Better/(Worse) (in millions, except per share amounts) 2010 2009 $ % Revenues $ 9,337 $ 9,238 $ 99 1 % Operating income 2,207 1,904 303 16 Adjusted operating income 2,207 1,937 270 14 Net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom 1,175 954 221 23 Adjusted net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom 1,148 953 195 20 Diluted EPS from continuing operations 1.92 1.57 0.35 22 Adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations $ 1.88 $ 1.57 $ 0.31 20 % See the section entitled Factors Affecting Comparability for a reconciliation of our adjusted measures to our reported results. Revenues Worldwide revenues increased $99 million, or 1%, to $9.337 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2010 driven by an increase at Media Networks of $405 million, principally reflecting higher affiliate fees and advertising revenues. Filmed Entertainment revenues decreased $329 million, principally reflecting lower home entertainment revenues, partially offset by higher theatrical revenues. The decrease in home entertainment revenues principally reflects fewer releases as compared with 2009 and lower catalog sales. The increase in theatrical revenues reflects the strength of our 2010 releases. Operating Income Adjusted operating income increased $270 million, or 14%, to $2.207 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2010. Media Networks contributed $192 million of the increase, principally reflecting the increased revenues, partially offset by our continuing investment in programming. Filmed Entertainments adjusted operating income was $38 million, compared with a $56 million operating loss in the comparable period of 2009, principally reflecting the improved profitability of our 2010 releases. Operating income increased $303 million, or 16%. See the section entitled Segment Results of Operations for a more in depth discussion of the revenues, expenses and adjusted operating income (loss) for each of the Media Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments. Net Earnings from Continuing Operations Attributable to Viacom Adjusted net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom increased $195 million, or 20%, in the nine months ended September 30, 2010, principally due to the increase in tax effected adjusted operating income described above and lower foreign exchange losses, which are included in Other items, net. Adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations increased $0.31 per diluted share to $1.88. 44 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Adjusted results exclude the impact of certain items identified as affecting comparability, including discrete tax benefits in both periods and restructuring charges and a loss on extinguishment of debt in 2009. See the section entitled Factors Affecting Comparability for a reconciliation of our adjusted measures to our reported results. Net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom increased $221 million, or 23%, in the nine months ended September 30, 2010. Diluted EPS from continuing operations increased $0.35 per diluted share to $1.92. Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax The loss from discontinued operations, net of tax was $321 million and $37 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The loss in 2010 principally reflects a $230 million impairment loss on Harmonix goodwill and other charges of approximately $30 million, principally related to unamortized development costs and other assets associated with legacy versions of the Rock Band game. Segment Results of Operations Media Networks Nine Months Ended September 30, Better/(Worse) (in millions) 2010 2009 $ % Revenues by Component Advertising $ 3,251 $ 3,103 $ 148 5 % Affiliate fees 2,397 2,160 237 11 Ancillary 429 409 20 5 Total revenues by component $ 6,077 $ 5,672 $ 405 7 % Expenses Operating $ 2,097 $ 1,964 $ (133) (7 )% Selling, general and administrative 1,433 1,350 (83) (6 ) Depreciation and amortization 148 151 3 2 Total expenses $ 3,678 $ 3,465 $ (213) (6 )% Adjusted Operating Income $ 2,399 $ 2,207 $ 192 9 % Revenues Worldwide revenues increased $405 million, or 7%, to $6.077 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2010, primarily driven by increases in affiliate and advertising revenues. Domestic revenues were $5.194 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2010, an increase of $321 million, or 7%. International revenues were $883 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2010, an increase of $84 million, or 11%. Foreign exchange had an insignificant impact on international revenues. Advertising Worldwide advertising revenues increased $148 million, or 5%, to $3.251 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2010, reflecting strength in the global advertising market compared with 2009. Domestic advertising revenues increased 5% reflecting a strong scatter market, partially offset by the effect of the weaker upfront sales completed in 2009. International advertising revenues increased 7%, with a 1 percentage point unfavorable impact from foreign exchange on international growth. Affiliate Fees Worldwide affiliate fees increased $237 million, or 11%, to $2.397 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2010, principally due to rate and subscriber growth. Domestic revenues also benefited from the 45 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) availability of certain programming related to digital distribution arrangements. Domestic affiliate revenues increased 12% and international affiliate revenues increased 7%, with foreign exchange contributing 1 percentage point to international growth. Excluding the impact of digital distribution arrangements, domestic affiliate revenue growth was 10%. Ancillary Worldwide ancillary revenues increased $20 million, or 5%, to $429 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2010. Higher international revenues, reflecting growth in consumer products revenues and television license fees, were partially offset by lower domestic revenues. Expenses Media Networks segment expenses increased $213 million, or 6%, to $3.678 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2010, driven by higher programming costs, reflecting our continuing investment in programming, and incentive compensation costs. Operating Operating expenses increased $133 million, or 7%, to $2.097 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. Programming expenses increased $136 million, or 8%, reflecting our continuing investment in programming. Distribution and other expenses decreased $3 million, or 1%. Selling, General and Administrative SG&A increased $83 million, or 6%, to $1.433 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2010, principally due to higher incentive compensation costs, partially offset by lower bad debt expenses. Adjusted Operating Income Adjusted operating income increased $192 million, or 9%, to $2.399 billion for the nine months September 30, 2010, principally reflecting the revenue growth, partially offset by our continuing investment in programming and higher incentive compensation costs. Filmed Entertainment Nine Months Ended September 30, Better/(Worse) (in millions) 2010 2009 $ % Revenues by Component Theatrical $ 1,283 $ 1,228 $ 55 4 % Home entertainment 951 1,356 (405 ) (30 ) Television license fees 938 938 Ancillary 190 169 21 12 Total revenues by component $ 3,362 $ 3,691 $ (329 ) (9 )% Expenses Operating $ 2,888 $ 3,346 $ 458 14 % Selling, general & administrative 367 326 (41 ) (13 ) Depreciation & amortization 69 75 6 8 Total expenses $ 3,324 $ 3,747 $ 423 11 % Adjusted Operating Income (Loss) $ 38 $ (56 ) $ 94 NM NM Not Meaningful 46 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Revenues Worldwide revenues decreased $329 million, or 9%, to $3.362 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2010, driven by a decline in home entertainment revenues, partially offset by higher theatrical revenues. Domestic revenues were $1.598 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2010, a decline of $328 million, or 17%. International revenues were substantially flat at $1.764 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2010, with a 3 percentage point favorable impact from foreign exchange on international revenues. Theatrical Worldwide theatrical revenues increased $55 million, or 4%, to $1.283 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2010, principally driven by the strength of our 2010 releases. During the nine months ended September 30, 2010, we released nine films, including Shrek Forever After, Iron Man 2, How to Train Your Dragon, The Last Airbender and Shutter Island, as compared to thirteen films in 2009. Domestic theatrical revenues decreased 11% reflecting the particularly strong domestic performance of Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen and Star Trek in 2009, while international theatrical revenues increased 23%. Foreign exchange had a 5 percentage point favorable impact on international theatrical revenues. Home Entertainment Worldwide home entertainment revenues decreased $405 million, or 30%, to $951 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2010. The decrease principally reflects fewer releases as compared with 2009. During the nine months ended September 30, 2010, we released five titles, including Iron Man 2 and Shutter Island, as compared to twelve titles in the nine months ended September 30, 2009. Also contributing to the decline were lower catalog sales and lower revenues from other third party distribution arrangements. Domestic and international home entertainment revenues decreased 32% and 28%, respectively, with a 3 percentage point favorable impact from foreign exchange on international home entertainment revenues. Television License Fees Worldwide television license fees were flat at $938 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2010, with an increase in syndication revenues offset by a decrease in pay and network TV revenues reflecting the number and mix of available titles in each window. Ancillary Ancillary revenues increased $21 million, or 12%, to $190 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, principally due to higher digital revenues. Expenses Filmed Entertainment segment expenses decreased $423 million, or 11%, to $3.324 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2010. The reduction in total expenses is principally due to fewer theatrical and home entertainment releases. Operating Operating expenses decreased $458 million, or 14%, to $2.888 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2010. Distribution and other costs, principally print and advertising expenses, decreased by $333 million, or 20%, primarily related to the fewer number of theatrical and home entertainment releases as well as cost savings initiatives. Film costs declined $125 million, or 7%, primarily reflecting lower amortization of film costs due to the number and mix of current releases. Selling, General and Administrative SG&A increased $41 million, or 13%, to $367 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2010, principally driven by the timing of incentive compensation costs and severance costs associated with headcount reductions. 47 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Adjusted Operating Income Adjusted operating income was $38 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2010 compared with an adjusted operating loss of $56 million in the comparable period of 2009, principally reflecting the improved profitability of our 2010 releases. Year ended December 31, 2009 vs. 2008 Consolidated Results of Operations Our summary consolidated results of operations are presented below for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. Year Ended December 31, Better/(Worse) (in millions, except per share amounts) 2009 2008 $ % Revenues $ 13,257 $ 13,947 $ (690 ) (5 )% Operating income 3,045 2,562 483 19 Adjusted operating income 3,138 3,016 122 4 Net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom 1,678 1,257 421 33 Adjusted net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom 1,646 1,515 131 9 Diluted EPS from continuing operations 2.76 2.01 0.75 37 Adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations $ 2.71 $ 2.42 $ 0.29 12 % See the section entitled Factors Affecting Comparability for a reconciliation of our adjusted measures to our reported results. Revenues Worldwide revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased $690 million, or 5%, to $13.257 billion. Filmed Entertainment contributed $551 million of the decrease primarily driven by declines in theatrical and home entertainment revenues, partially offset by an increase in television and ancillary revenues. The decrease in feature film revenues reflects fewer films released in 2009 as compared to 2008 and the decrease in home entertainment revenues principally results from the number and mix of titles released in 2009 compared to 2008. Media Networks contributed $152 million of the decrease reflecting declines in advertising and ancillary revenues, partially offset by an increase in affiliate fees. Operating Income Adjusted operating income increased $122 million, or 4%, to $3.138 billion in 2009 driven by a $144 million increase at Filmed Entertainment, partially offset by an $8 million decrease at Media Networks. The increase at Filmed Entertainment principally reflects the success of certain 2009 releases, including Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen, Star Trek and Paranormal Activity, partially offset by fewer distributed films. The decrease at Media Networks principally reflects lower advertising revenues, partially offset by an increase in affiliate revenues. Both segments benefited from lower costs in 2009 as a result of restructurings and other cost savings initiatives. Operating income increased $483 million, or 19%, to $3.045 billion in 2009 reflecting lower restructuring and other charges as discussed in Factors Affecting Comparability. See the section entitled Segment Results of Operations for a more in depth discussion of the revenues, expenses and operating income for each of the Media Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments. Net Earnings from Continuing Operations Attributable to Viacom Adjusted net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom increased $131 million, or 9%, in 2009 reflecting the increase in tax effected adjusted operating income, a decrease in Interest expense, net due to lower 48 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) average debt outstanding, and lower foreign exchange losses and costs associated with our receivables securitization programs, both of which are included in Other items, net. Adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations increased $0.29 per diluted share from $2.42 in 2008 to $2.71 in 2009. Adjusted results exclude the impact of certain items identified as affecting comparability, including a loss on extinguishment of debt in 2009, investment impairments in 2008, and restructuring and other charges and discrete tax benefits in both periods. See the section entitled Factors Affecting Comparability for a reconciliation of our adjusted measures to our reported results. Net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom increased $421 million, or 33%, in 2009. Diluted EPS from continuing operations increased $0.75 per diluted share from $2.01 in 2008 to $2.76 in 2009. Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax The loss from discontinued operations, net of tax was $67 million and $6 million in the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, principally reflecting losses related to Harmonix. Segment Results of Operations Media Networks Year Ended December 31, Better/(Worse) (in millions) 2009 2008 $ % Revenues by Component Advertising $ 4,405 $ 4,722 $ (317 ) (7 )% Affiliate fees 2,901 2,620 281 11 Ancillary 620 736 (116 ) (16 ) Total revenues by component $ 7,926 $ 8,078 $ (152 ) (2 )% Expenses Operating $ 2,689 $ 2,670 $ (19 ) (1 )% Selling, general and administrative 1,844 1,986 142 7 Depreciation and amortization 204 225 21 9 Total expenses $ 4,737 $ 4,881 $ 144 3 % Adjusted Operating Income $ 3,189 $ 3,197 $ (8 ) NM NM Not Meaningful Revenues Worldwide revenues decreased $152 million, or 2%, to $7.926 billion in 2009. Declines in advertising and ancillary revenues were partially offset by an increase in affiliate fees. Domestic revenues decreased to $6.705 billion, a decline of $14 million. International revenues decreased to $1.221 billion, a decline of $138 million, or 10%, including a 5 percentage point negative impact from foreign exchange. Advertising Worldwide advertising revenues decreased $317 million, or 7%, to $4.405 billion in 2009. Domestic advertising revenue decreased 6%, while international advertising revenues decreased 14%, with foreign exchange negatively impacting international growth by 5 percentage points. In 2009, global economic conditions had a negative impact on the advertising market and our revenues, although the advertising market strengthened in the second half of 2009. 49 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Affiliate Fees Worldwide affiliate fees increased $281 million, or 11%, to $2.901 billion in 2009. Domestic affiliate fees increased 12% and international affiliate fees increased 3%, principally due to rate and subscriber growth. International affiliate revenues include 8 percentage points of negative impact from foreign exchange. Ancillary Worldwide ancillary revenues decreased $116 million, or 16%, to $620 million in 2009. The decrease is primarily driven by lower home entertainment and consumer products revenues. Domestic and international ancillary revenues declined 12% and 22%, respectively. International ancillary revenues also included a 2 percentage point negative impact from foreign exchange. Expenses Media Networks segment expenses decreased $144 million, or 3%, to $4.737 billion in 2009. The reduction in total expenses includes lower employee compensation and other cost benefits principally resulting from the actions taken in connection with restructurings and other initiatives. These decreases were partially offset by costs related to our continued investment in programming. Operating Operating expenses increased $19 million, or 1%, to $2.689 billion in 2009. Programming costs increased $60 million, or 3%, primarily reflecting an increase in costs of $139 million, or 6%, due to our continued investment in programming, partially offset by $79 million of savings attributable to programming abandonments taken in connection with our 2008 restructuring. Distribution and other expenses decreased $41 million, or 11%. Selling, General and Administrative SG&A decreased $142 million, or 7%, to $1.844 billion in 2009, principally due to lower employee compensation costs and other cost savings initiatives, principally resulting from the 2008 restructuring action described in the Factors Affecting Comparability section. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization decreased $21 million, or 9%, to $204 million in 2009, due to lower capital lease depreciation expense and lower overall capital spending. Adjusted Operating Income Adjusted operating income decreased $8 million to $3.189 billion in 2009. The decrease principally reflects lower advertising and ancillary revenues, partially offset by higher affiliate revenues and the cost savings from restructurings. 50 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Filmed Entertainment Year Ended December 31, Better/(Worse) (in millions) 2009 2008 $ % Revenues by Component Theatrical $ 1,321 $ 1,714 $ (393 ) (23 )% Home entertainment 2,501 2,724 (223 ) (8 ) Television license fees 1,383 1,333 50 4 Ancillary 277 262 15 6 Total revenues by component $ 5,482 $ 6,033 $ (551 ) (9 )% Expenses Operating $ 4,652 $ 5,344 $ 692 13 % Selling, general & administrative 479 479 Depreciation & amortization 105 108 3 3 Total expenses $ 5,236 $ 5,931 $ 695 12 % Adjusted Operating Income $ 246 $ 102 $ 144 NM NM Not Meaningful Revenues Worldwide revenues decreased $551 million, or 9%, to $5.482 billion in 2009. Declines in theatrical and home entertainment revenues were partially offset by an increase in television and ancillary revenues. Domestic revenues decreased to $2.942 billion, a decline of $300 million, or 9%. International revenues decreased to $2.54 billion, a decline of $251 million, or 9%, including a 5 percentage point negative impact from foreign exchange. Theatrical Worldwide theatrical revenues decreased $393 million, or 23%, to $1.321 billion in 2009, principally driven by a smaller slate of films. During 2009, we released twenty films, including Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen, Star Trek, G.I. Joe: The Rise of Cobra, Paranormal Activity and DreamWorks Animations Monsters vs. Aliens compared to twenty four films released in 2008, which included Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull, Marvels Iron Man and DreamWorks Animations Kung Fu Panda and Madagascar 2: Escape to Africa. Domestic theatrical revenues decreased 8%, and international theatrical revenues decreased 36%. Foreign exchange had a 9 percentage point negative impact on international theatrical revenues. Home Entertainment Worldwide home entertainment revenues decreased $223 million, or 8%, to $2.501 billion in 2009. Decreased revenues principally reflect the number and mix of titles released in 2009 versus 2008. Domestic and international home entertainment revenues decreased 12% and 3%, respectively, with a 3 percentage point negative impact from foreign exchange on international revenues. The DVD market continued to be negatively affected by global economic conditions throughout most of 2009, with strengthening seen in the fourth quarter of the calendar year relative to our major release titles. Television License Fees Worldwide television license fees increased $50 million, or 4%, to $1.383 billion in 2009, principally reflecting higher Pay TV fees driven by the number and mix of available titles. Ancillary Ancillary revenues increased $15 million, or 6%, to $277 million in 2009 due to higher digital and merchandising revenues. 51 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Expenses Filmed Entertainment segment expenses decreased $695 million, or 12%, to $5.236 billion in 2009. The reduction in total expenses principally reflects our reduced film slate and lower costs associated with third party distribution agreements. Operating Operating expenses decreased $692 million, or 13%, to $4.652 billion in 2009. Distribution and other expenses decreased $487 million, or 19%, primarily related to the reduced number of theatrical releases, lower home entertainment expenses and cost savings initiatives. Film costs decreased $205 million, or 7%. The decrease was primarily due to lower participation costs associated with third party distribution arrangements, partially offset by higher amortization of certain film costs. Selling, General and Administrative SG&A was substantially flat at $479 million in 2009. The benefits from our cost savings initiatives contributed to containing SG&A costs. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization decreased $3 million, or 3%, to $105 million in 2009. Adjusted Operating Income Adjusted operating income increased $144 million to $246 million in 2009. The increase principally reflects the success of certain 2009 releases, including Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen, Star Trek and Paranormal Activity and cost savings from restructurings and other initiatives, partially offset by fewer distributed films. FACTORS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY The consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009 and the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 reflect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Results for the aforementioned periods, as discussed in the section entitled Overview, have been affected by certain items identified as affecting comparability. The following tables reconcile our adjusted measures to our reported results for the years ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, and the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. (in millions, except per share amounts) Year EndedSeptember 30, 2011 OperatingIncome Pre tax Earnings fromContinuing Operations* Net Earnings from ContinuingOperationsAttributable to Viacom** Diluted EPS fromContinuing Operations Reported results $ 3,710 $ 3,245 $ 2,146 $ 3.61 Factors Affecting Comparability: Restructuring 144 144 99 0.17 Extinguishment of debt 87 54 0.09 Discrete tax benefits (52 ) (0.09 ) Adjusted results $ 3,854 $ 3,476 $ 2,247 $ 3.78 52 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) (in millions, except per share amounts) Year EndedSeptember 30, 2010 OperatingIncome Pre tax Earnings fromContinuing Operations* Net Earningsfrom ContinuingOperationsAttributable to Viacom** Diluted EPS fromContinuing Operations Reported results $ 3,348 $ 2,838 $ 1,899 $ 3.11 Factors Affecting Comparability: Asset impairment 60 60 19 0.03 Discrete tax benefits (77 ) (0.12 ) Adjusted results $ 3,408 $ 2,898 $ 1,841 $ 3.02 (in millions, except per share amounts) Nine Months EndedSeptember 30, 2010 OperatingIncome Pre tax Earnings fromContinuing Operations* Net Earningsfrom ContinuingOperationsAttributable to Viacom** Diluted EPS fromContinuing Operations Reported results $ 2,207 $ 1,812 $ 1,175 $ 1.92 Factors Affecting Comparability: Discrete tax benefits (27 ) (0.04 ) Adjusted results $ 2,207 $ 1,812 $ 1,148 $ 1.88 (in millions, except per share amounts) Nine Months EndedSeptember 30, 2009 OperatingIncome Pre tax Earnings fromContinuing Operations* Net Earningsfrom ContinuingOperationsAttributable to Viacom** Diluted EPS fromContinuing Operations Reported results $ 1,904 $ 1,391 $ 954 $ 1.57 Factors Affecting Comparability: Restructuring 33 33 21 0.03 Extinguishment of debt 84 52 0.09 Discrete tax benefits (74 ) (0.12 ) Adjusted results $ 1,937 $ 1,508 $ 953 $ 1.57 (in millions, except per share amounts) Year EndedDecember 31, 2009 OperatingIncome Pre tax Earnings fromContinuing Operations* Net Earningsfrom ContinuingOperationsAttributable to Viacom** Diluted EPS fromContinuing Operations Reported results $ 3,045 $ 2,417 $ 1,678 $ 2.76 Factors Affecting Comparability: Restructuring 33 33 21 0.03 Asset impairment 60 60 19 0.03 Extinguishment of debt 84 52 0.09 Discrete tax benefits (124 ) (0.20 ) Adjusted results $ 3,138 $ 2,594 $ 1,646 $ 2.71 53 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) (in millions, except per share amounts) Year EndedDecember 31, 2008 OperatingIncome Pre tax Earnings fromContinuing Operations* Net Earningsfrom ContinuingOperationsAttributable to Viacom** Diluted EPS fromContinuingOperations Reported results $ 2,562 $ 1,894 $ 1,257 $ 2.01 Factors Affecting Comparability: Restructuring and other charges 454 454 286 0.46 Discrete tax benefits (55 ) (0.09 ) Impairment of investments 27 27 0.04 Adjusted results $ 3,016 $ 2,375 $ 1,515 $ 2.42 * Pre tax earnings from continuing operations represent earnings before provisions for income taxes. ** The tax impact has been calculated using the rates applicable to the adjustments presented. Restructuring Restructuring charges are reflected within Restructuring in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. 2011 In the quarter ended September 30, 2011, we reviewed our cost structure and took certain actions to combine and increase the efficiency of various functions across the organization, resulting in a restructuring charge of $130 million. The restructuring plan includes workforce reductions and other exit activities across the Companys operations, which are well under way. As a result of these initiatives we expect annual savings of approximately $140 million, the benefit of which will phase in through fiscal year 2013. We expect that the restructuring plan will be substantially completed by September 30, 2012 and involve cash payments of approximately $120 million, a majority of which is expected to be paid in fiscal 2012. In the quarter ended June 30, 2011, the Media Networks segment incurred employee separation costs, including accelerated vesting of certain equity based compensation awards, of $14 million. The following table presents the components of the 2011 restructuring charges by segment: 2011 Restructuring Charges (in millions) MediaNetworks FilmedEntertainment Total Severance charges $ 84 $ 39 $ 123 Lease termination and other exit costs 7 14 21 September 30, 2011 $ 91 $ 53 $ 144 2009 In 2009, we took actions resulting in severance charges of $16 million in the Media Networks segment and $17 million in the Filmed Entertainment segment. 2008 In 2008, to better align our organization and cost structure with changing economic conditions, we undertook a strategic review of our businesses which resulted in $454 million of charges. In addition to broad adverse 54 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) economic conditions, the strategic review considered the emergence of sustained softness in the advertising market and ratings issues at certain channels in the Media Networks segment, and the Filmed Entertainment segments decision to reduce its future film slate. As a result of these initiatives we saved approximately $200 million in the year ended December 31, 2009. Approximately half of the savings from the restructuring charges were principally comprised of workforce reductions and were realized via lower compensation costs primarily included as a component of Selling, general and administrative expenses in our Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The following table presents the components of the 2008 restructuring and other charges by segment: 2008 Restructuring and Other Charges (in millions) MediaNetworks FilmedEntertainment Corporate Total Severance and lease termination costs $ 71 $ 29 $ 3 $ 103 Programming and film inventory 286 19 305 Asset impairments and other 32 14 46 December 31, 2008 $ 389 $ 62 $ 3 $ 454 See Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding these actions. Extinguishment of Debt 2011 In 2011, we conducted a cash tender offer to repurchase a portion of the $1.5 billion aggregate principal of our 6.25% Senior Notes due 2016. Our repurchase of $582 million of principal at a purchase price of $1,153.50 per $1,000 pursuant to the tender offer resulted in a pre tax extinguishment loss of $87 million. 2009 In 2009, we conducted a cash tender offer to repurchase a substantial portion of the $1.5 billion aggregate principal of our 5.75% Senior Notes due 2011. Our repurchase of $1.307 billion of principal at a purchase price of $1,061.25 per $1,000 pursuant to the tender offer resulted in a pre tax extinguishment loss of $84 million. Asset Impairment 2009 In 2009, we recorded a $60 million non cash impairment charge in the Media Networks segment related to certain broadcast licenses held by a 32% owned consolidated entity. The impact to Net earnings attributable to Viacom was a reduction of $19 million, with the remaining $41 million allocated to the noncontrolling interest. 2008 In 2008, we recognized non cash investment impairment charges of $27 million. Discrete Tax Items Our effective income tax rate was 34.3% and 35.9% for the year ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively, excluding the impact of discrete items. In 2011, discrete tax benefits of $52 million, taken together with the impact of restructuring charges and the 2011 loss on extinguishment of debt, contributed 1.6 percentage points of net tax benefit, which reconciles to the reported rate of 32.7%. In 2010, discrete tax benefits of $77 million, taken together with the impact of asset impairment, contributed 2.0 percentage points of tax benefit, which reconciles to the reported effective tax rate of 33.9%. The discrete tax benefits in both periods were principally due to reserve releases resulting from effectively settled audits. The benefit in 2010 also reflects the disposition of certain assets. 55 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Our effective income tax rate was 36.1% for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, excluding the impact of discrete items. In 2010, discrete tax benefits of $27 million contributed 1.5 percentage points of tax benefit, which reconciles to the reported rate of 34.6%. In 2009, discrete tax benefits of $74 million contributed 5.4 percentage points of tax benefit, which reconciles to the reported rate of 30.7%. The benefit in the nine months ended September 30, 2010 principally reflects tax benefits from the disposition of certain assets. The benefit in the nine months ended September 30, 2009 principally reflects reserve releases resulting from effectively settled audits and the recognition of certain previously unrecognized capital losses from international operations. Our effective income tax rate was 35.9% and 35.5% in the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, excluding the impact of discrete items. In 2009, discrete tax benefits of $124 million, taken together with the impact of restructuring charges, asset impairment and the 2009 loss on extinguishment of debt, contributed 4.4 percentage points of tax benefit, which reconciles to the reported rate of 31.5%. In 2008, discrete tax benefits of $55 million, taken together with the impact of restructuring and other charges, contributed 2.8 percentage points of tax benefit, which reconciles to the reported rate 32.7%. The discrete taxes in each period were principally due to reserve releases resulting from effectively settled audits. The benefit in 2009 also reflects the recognition of certain previously unrecognized capital losses from international operations. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity Sources and Uses of Cash Our primary source of liquidity is cash provided through the operations of our businesses. Our principal uses of cash in operations include the creation of new programming and film content, acquisitions of third party content, and interest and tax payments. We also use cash for capital expenditures, acquisitions of businesses, quarterly cash dividends and discretionary share repurchases under our stock repurchase program, as deemed appropriate. Our cash flows from operations, together with our $2.0 billion revolving credit facility, provide us with adequate resources to fund our anticipated ongoing cash requirements. We have and may continue to access external financing from time to time depending on our cash requirements, assessments of current and anticipated market conditions and after tax cost of capital. Our access to capital markets can be impacted by factors outside our control, including economic conditions; however, we believe that our strong cash flows and balance sheet, our credit facility and our credit rating will provide us with adequate access to funding given our expected cash needs. Any new borrowing cost would be affected by market conditions and short and long term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies. Cash Flows Cash and cash equivalents increased by $184 million in the year ended September 30, 2011 and $539 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2010, and decreased $494 million in the year ended December 31, 2009. The net change in cash and cash equivalents was attributable to the following: Cash Flows (in millions) Year EndedSeptember 30, Nine Months EndedSeptember 30, Year EndedDecember 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 2009 2008 Cash provided by operations $ 2,644 $ 1,566 $ 1,147 $ 732 $ 1,151 $ 2,036 Net cash flow used in investing activities (227) (325) (168) (117) (274) (571) Net cash flow used in financing activities (2,227) (655) (436) (1,169) (1,388) (1,555) Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (6) 2 (4) 11 17 (38) Net change in cash and cash equivalents $ 184 $ 588 $ 539 $ (543) $ (494) $ (128) 56 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Operating Activities Cash provided by operations was $2.644 billion for the year ended September 30, 2011, an increase of $1.078 billion compared with the same period in 2010. The increase principally reflects the comparison against a $775 million reduction in securitized receivables in 2010 and higher income, partially offset by increased production spending at the Filmed Entertainment segment, as well as the payment of the premium on our 2011 debt extinguishment. In addition, cash used in discontinued operations was $21 million in fiscal 2011 as compared with cash provided by discontinued operations of $121 million in the prior year, principally due to a full year of activity in the prior year as compared with three months in the current year. The Media Networks segment consistently generates a significant percentage of our cash flow from operating activities. Advertising time is generally purchased by large media buying agencies and our affiliate fees are principally earned from cable and satellite television operators. The Filmed Entertainment segments operational results and ability to generate cash flow from operations substantially depend on the number and timing of films in development and production, the level and timing of print and advertising costs and the publics response to our theatrical film and home entertainment releases. Our cash flow from operations tends to fluctuate seasonally as a result of timing of cash payments and collections, typically being highest in the first quarter of our fiscal year. Cash provided by operations was $1.147 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, an increase of $415 million compared with the nine months ended September 30, 2009. The increase principally reflects the increase in earnings, lower pension contributions, lower print and advertising expenses and the comparison against a $175 million reduction in securitized receivables and an $84 million payment of a premium on debt extinguishment in 2009, partially offset by higher income tax payments. Cash tax payments increased during the period primarily as a result of prior year tax benefits associated with our 2008 restructuring and other charges, the expiration at December 31, 2009 of certain Federal income tax benefits related to programming and film investment and increased pre tax earnings. Cash provided by operations was $1.151 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, a decrease of $885 million compared with 2008. The decrease was primarily due to a $950 million reduction in securitized receivables, increased pension contributions, severance payments and payment of a premium on our 2009 debt extinguishment, partially offset by lower payments for production spending, income taxes and interest. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities was $227 million for the year ended September 30, 2011, compared with $325 million in the same period in 2010. The decrease is principally due to lower spending on acquisitions and investments. In fiscal year 2011, cash used in investing activities included $72 million related to acquisitions and investments principally reflecting an investment in a European television programmer. In the prior year, the $154 million related to acquisitions and investments principally related to the acquisition of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles and investment in EPIX. In general, our segments require relatively low levels of capital expenditures in relation to our annual cash flow from operations which contributes to our ability to generate cash flow for future investment in our content and business operations, which we expect to be able to maintain over time. Cash used in investing activities was $168 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, compared with $117 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2009. The increase is primarily due to increased spending on capital expenditures and investments, principally related to Viacom 18 and EPIX, partially offset by cash acquired from DW Funding. 57 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Cash used in investing activities was $274 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared with $571 million in 2008. The decrease was primarily due to lower spending on acquisitions and investments in 2009, as well as lower spending on capital expenditures. In 2009, cash used in investing activities included $133 million related to acquisitions and investments and $139 million in capital expenditures. In 2008, cash used in investing activities included $283 million of capital expenditures, principally related to improvements to certain new and existing facilities (including approximately $100 million related to New York real estate facilities), $146 million related to acquisitions and investments and a $150 million earn out payment related to our 2006 acquisition of Harmonix, which is reflected in discontinued operations. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities was $2.227 billion for the year ended September 30, 2011, compared with $655 million in the same period in 2010. The net outflow was primarily driven by share repurchases and dividends. During the year ended September 30, 2011, we repurchased 55.7 million shares for an aggregate price of $2.5 billion, of which $2.45 billion of repurchases had settled as of September 30, 2011, and paid $417 million in dividends. Our commercial paper borrowings of $423 million, taken together with the net impact of our issuance of $1.0 billion of senior notes, repurchase of $582 million principal amount of our 6.25% Senior Notes due 2016 and repayment of the remaining $193 million principal amount of our 5.75% Senior Notes due on April 30, 2011, contributed a partially offsetting inflow. In the prior year, cash used in financing activities was driven by the repayment of long term debt and commercial paper borrowings. Cash used in financing activities was $436 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, compared with $1.169 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2009. The net outflow in 2010 was primarily driven by the repayment of DW Funding debt and the dividends paid. The net outflow in 2009 was primarily driven by $750 million in payments related to the maturity of our floating rate senior notes which came due in the second quarter of 2009 and a decrease in amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility. In 2009, we issued a total of $1.4 billion of senior notes and used the proceeds to repurchase $1.307 billion outstanding principal of our 5.75% Senior Notes due 2011. Cash used in financing activities was $1.388 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009. The net outflow was primarily driven by the maturity of our $750 million floating rate senior notes and the decrease in amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility. We did not repurchase any shares under our stock repurchase program during 2009. Cash used in financing activities was $1.555 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008. The net outflow was principally driven by $1.266 billion of share repurchases under our stock repurchase program and net payments of $280 million on the outstanding balances related to our credit facility, commercial paper and other debt obligations. 58 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Capital Resources Capital Structure and Debt At September 30, 2011, total debt was $7.365 billion, an increase of $613 million from $6.752 billion at September 30, 2010. The increase in debt reflects the impact of new issuances and commercial paper borrowings, partially offset by repayments. Debt (in millions) September 30, 2011 2010 Senior notes and debentures $ 6,536 $ 6,320 Commercial paper 423 Capital leases and other obligations 406 432 Total debt $ 7,365 $ 6,752 Senior Notes and Debentures During the year, we took advantage of favorable market conditions to lengthen the maturities and reduce the weighted average borrowing cost of our public debt. We issued a total of $1.0 billion of senior notes with maturities of six and ten years. In February, we issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 4.5% Senior Notes due 2021 at a price equal to 98.320% of the principal amount. We used the net proceeds from this offering of $488 million to conduct a cash tender offer to repurchase a portion of the $1.5 billion aggregate principal of our 6.25% Senior Notes due 2016 at a weighted average purchase price of $1,153.50 per $1,000 of principal. Our repurchase of $582 million of principal pursuant to the tender offer resulted in a pre tax extinguishment loss of $87 million. In March, we issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3.5% Senior Notes due 2017 at a price equal to 99.139% of the principal amount. We used the net proceeds from this offering for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of the remaining $193 million principal amount of our 5.75% Senior Notes due on April 30, 2011 and the repurchase of shares under our stock repurchase program. Our outstanding senior notes and debentures provide for certain covenant packages typical for an investment grade company. There is one acceleration trigger for certain of the senior notes and debentures in the event of a change in control under certain specified circumstances coupled with ratings downgrades due to the change in control. At September 30, 2011 and 2010, the total unamortized net discount related to the fixed rate senior notes and debentures was $32 million and $23 million, respectively. We anticipate that future debt maturities will be funded with cash and cash equivalents, cash flows from operating activities and future access to capital markets, including our revolving credit facility. There can be no assurance that we will be able to access capital markets on terms and conditions that will be acceptable to us. Credit Facility On October 8, 2010, we terminated our $3.25 billion revolving facility due December 2010 and entered into a $2.0 billion revolving credit facility, which matures in October 2013. There were no amounts outstanding under our credit facility at September 30, 2011 and 2010. The primary purpose of the facility is to fund short term liquidity needs and to support commercial paper borrowings. Borrowing rates under the facility are determined at the time of each borrowing and are based generally on LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 0.75% to 2.0% based on our public debt rating. A facility fee is paid based on the total amount of the commitments. The facility contains typical covenants for an investment grade company and one financial covenant that requires our interest coverage, calculated as operating income before depreciation and amortization divided by interest expense (defined by the credit agreement), for the most recent four consecutive fiscal quarters, to be at least 3.0x, which we met at September 30, 2011. 59 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Commercial Paper At September 30, 2011, the outstanding commercial paper of $423 million had a weighted average interest rate of 0.41% and a weighted average maturity of less than 30 days. There were no amounts outstanding as of September 30, 2010. Current Portion of Debt Amounts classified in the current portion of debt consist of the portion of capital leases payable in the next twelve months. Securitization Facilities In April 2010, we terminated our accounts receivable securitization programs because we had access to sufficient sources of liquidity at better terms. Film Financing Arrangements Historically we have entered into film financing arrangements that involve the sale of a partial copyright interest in a film to third party investors. Since the investors typically have the risks and rewards of ownership proportionate to their ownership in the film, we generally record the amounts received for the sale of copyright interest as a reduction of the cost of the film and related cash flows are reflected in net cash flow from operating activities. We also have agreements with third parties, including other studios, to co finance certain of our motion pictures. Stock Repurchase Program On June 9, 2010, our Board of Directors authorized an increase in the funds available to purchase Class B common stock under the Companys stock repurchase program to $4.0 billion from the existing remaining capacity of $1.275 billion. During the year ended September 30, 2011, we repurchased 55.7 million shares under the program for an aggregate price of $2.5 billion. From October 1, 2011 through November 9, 2011, we repurchased an additional 6.5 million shares for an aggregate price of $276 million. On November 9, 2011, our Board of Directors authorized an increase in the funds available under the program to $10.0 billion, leaving $7.2 billion of remaining capacity. There were no repurchases during the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and year ended December 31, 2009. Commitments and Contingencies Our commitments primarily consist of programming and talent commitments, operating and capital lease arrangements, and purchase obligations for goods and services. These arrangements result from our normal course of business and represent obligations that may be payable over several years. Additionally, we are subject to a redeemable put option, payable in a foreign currency, with respect to an international subsidiary, which is classified as Redeemable noncontrolling interest in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The put option expires in January 2016. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the redeemable noncontrolling interest. In the course of our business, the Company both provides and receives the benefit of indemnities that are intended to allocate certain risks associated with business transactions. Similarly, we may remain contingently liable for various obligations of a business that has been divested in the event that a third party does not live up to its obligations under an indemnification agreement. Further, we may from time to time agree to pay additional consideration to the sellers of a business depending on the performance of the business during a period following the closing. 60 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Guarantees Leases We have certain indemnification obligations with respect to leases associated with the previously discontinued operations of Famous Players and Blockbuster. In addition, we have certain indemnities provided by the acquirer of Famous Players. At September 30, 2011, these lease commitments, substantially all of which relate to Famous Players, amounted to approximately $600 million. The amount of lease commitments varies over time depending on expiration or termination of individual underlying leases, or of the related indemnification obligation, and foreign exchange rates, among other things. We may also have exposure for certain other expenses related to the leases, such as property taxes and common area maintenance. We have recorded a liability of approximately $200 million with respect to such obligations. Based on our consideration of financial information available to us, the lessees historical performance in meeting their lease obligations and the underlying economic factors impacting the lessees business models, we believe our accrual is sufficient to meet any future obligations. Other We have indemnification obligations with respect to letters of credit and surety bonds primarily used as security against non performance in the normal course of business. The outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds at September 30, 2011 were $60 million and are not recorded on the balance sheet. The Company and its venture partner each have a commitment to guarantee up to $55 million of bank debt of Viacom 18. There were no borrowings outstanding at September 30, 2011 subject to this guarantee. We also have a remaining funding commitment of $15 million as of September 30, 2011. Legal Matters Litigation is inherently uncertain and always difficult to predict. However, based on our understanding and evaluation of the relevant facts and circumstances, we believe that the legal matters described below and other litigation to which we are a party are not likely, in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on our results of continuing operations, financial position or operating cash flows. In March 2007, we filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against Google Inc. (Google) and its wholly owned subsidiary YouTube, alleging that Google and YouTube violated and continue to violate the Companys copyrights. We are seeking both damages and injunctive relief. In March 2010, we and Google filed motions for summary judgment, and in June 2010, Googles motion was granted. The District Court decision has been appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and oral argument was heard in October 2011. We believe we have a meritorious appeal. In September 2007, Brantley, et al. v. NBC Universal, Inc., et al., was filed in the United States District Court for the Central District of California against us and several other program content providers on behalf of a purported nationwide class of cable and satellite subscribers. The plaintiffs also sued several major cable and satellite program distributors. Plaintiffs allege that separate contracts between the program providers and the cable and satellite operator defendants providing for the sale of programming in specific tiers each unreasonably restrain trade in a variety of markets in violation of the Sherman Act. In June 2011, the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed the District Courts decision dismissing, with prejudice, the plaintiffs third amended complaint. The plaintiffs filed a petition for a rehearing of the case by the full Court of Appeals and oral argument was heard in October 2011. On October 31, 2011, the Court of Appeals withdrew its decision in light of the subsequent death of one of the judges on the panel. Another judge of the court will replace the deceased judge. In light of this development, the motion for a rehearing before the entire court was dismissed as moot. We believe the plaintiffs position in this litigation is without merit and intend to continue to vigorously defend this lawsuit. 61 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Our 2006 acquisition agreement with Harmonix Music Systems, Inc. (Harmonix), a developer of music based games, including the Rock Band franchise, provided that to the extent financial results exceeded specific contractual targets against a defined gross profit metric for the calendar years 2007 and 2008, former Harmonix shareholders would be eligible for incremental earn out payments. In 2008, we paid $150 million, subject to adjustment, under this earn out agreement related to 2007 performance. The final amount of the earn out related to 2007 and 2008 performance has not yet been determined and a private dispute resolution process before an accounting expert is expected to conclude in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012. Our position in the dispute resolution process is that approximately $130 million of the earlier $150 million payment was not earned and that no payment is owed with respect to 2008 performance. The shareholder representative has claimed that we owe an additional $700 million with respect to 2007 and 2008 performance. We strongly disagree with the position of the shareholder representative and have filed a lawsuit in the Court of Chancery for the State of Delaware against certain of the former Harmonix shareholders seeking a refund of a substantial portion of the $150 million payment. Accordingly, we have not recorded a reserve as of September 30, 2011. In December 2010, the shareholder representative filed a lawsuit in the Court of Chancery for the State of Delaware seeking the release of approximately $13 million, which is being held in escrow to secure the shareholder representatives indemnification obligations to us under the acquisition agreement and damages in respect of certain other claims. In May 2011, we filed a motion to dismiss the portion of the shareholder representatives amended complaint that relates to the other claims and a decision is pending. We believe the shareholder representatives position in this proceeding is without merit and are vigorously defending this lawsuit. Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations include amounts reflected on our balance sheet, as well as off balance sheet arrangements. At September 30, 2011, our significant contractual obligations, including payments due for the next five fiscal years and thereafter, were as follows: Contractual Obligations (in millions) Total Less than1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years After 5years Off balance Sheet Arrangements Programming and talent commitments (1) $ 1,228 $ 439 $ 483 $ 234 $ 72 Operating leases (2) 975 199 337 197 242 Purchase obligations (3) 835 430 288 98 19 On Balance Sheet Arrangements Capital lease obligations (4) 220 32 53 51 84 Debt 7,219 566 685 1,168 4,800 Interest payments 6,788 384 768 681 4,955 Other long term obligations (5) $ 2,954 $ 1,669 $ 913 $ 347 $ 25 (1) Programming and talent commitments include $1.011 billion relating to media networks programming and $217 million for talent contracts. (2) Includes long term non cancelable operating lease commitments for office space, equipment, transponders, studio facilities and vehicles. (3) Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including open purchase orders. (4) Includes capital leases for satellite transponders. (5) Other long term obligations principally consist of participations, residuals and programming obligations for content that is available for airing. Note: Not included in the amounts above are payments which may result from our defined benefit pension plans of $441 million, unrecognized tax benefits of $274 million, including interest and penalties, $15 million of funding commitments to joint ventures, interest payments to be made under our credit facility, $152 million of redeemable noncontrolling interest and lease guarantees of approximately $600 million. The amount and timing of payments with respect to these items are subject to a number of uncertainties such that we are unable to make sufficiently reliable estimations of future payments. We do expect to make contributions of approximately $45 million in fiscal 2012 to our pension plans. 62 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) MARKET RISK We are exposed to market risk related to foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. We use or expect to use derivative financial instruments to modify exposure to risks from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. In accordance with our policy, we do not use derivative instruments unless there is an underlying exposure, and we do not hold or enter into financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. Foreign Exchange Risk We conduct business in various countries outside the United States, resulting in exposure to movements in foreign exchange rates when translating from the foreign local currency to the U.S. Dollar. In order to economically hedge anticipated cash flows and foreign currency balances in such currencies as the British Pound, the Australian Dollar, the Euro, the Japanese Yen, and the Canadian Dollar, foreign currency forward contracts are used. The change in fair value of non designated contracts is included in current period earnings as part of Other items, net. Additionally, from time to time we enter into forward contracts to hedge future production costs or programming obligations or hedge the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation. We manage the use of foreign exchange derivatives centrally. The notional value of all foreign exchange contracts was $89 million and $150 million at September 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In 2011, $5 million related to net investments in foreign operations, $7 million related to expected foreign currency net cash flows and $77 million related to programming obligations. In 2010, $94 million related to net investments in foreign operations, $13 million related to expected foreign currency net cash flows and $43 million related to programming obligations. Interest Rate Risk A portion of our interest expense is exposed to movements in short term rates. Also, interest expense for future long term debt issues is exposed to movements in long term rates. Interest rate hedges may be used to modify both of these exposures. At September 30, 2011, the notional value of all interest rate hedges was $500 million. There were no interest rate hedges outstanding at September 30, 2010. Since the majority of our debt is fixed rate, we do not expect that a 1% increase or decrease in the level of interest rates would have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Viacom has issued senior notes and debentures that, at September 30, 2011, had an outstanding balance of $6.5 billion and an estimated fair value of $7.3 billion. A 1% increase or decrease in the level of interest rates, respectively, would decrease or increase the fair value of the senior notes and debentures by approximately $570 million and $670 million. Credit Risk We continually monitor our positions with, and credit quality of, our customers and the financial institutions which are counterparties to our financial instrument agreements. We are exposed to credit loss in the event of nonpayment by our customers and nonperformance by the counterparties to our financial instrument agreements. However, we do not anticipate nonperformance by the counterparties to our financial instrument agreements and we believe our allowance for doubtful accounts is sufficient to cover any anticipated nonpayment by our customers. 63 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, which are based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. The result of these evaluations forms the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the reported amount of expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions. An appreciation of our critical accounting policies, those that are considered by management to require significant judgment and use of estimates and that could have a significant impact on our financial statements, is necessary to understand our financial results. Unless otherwise noted, we applied our critical accounting policies and estimation methods consistently in all material respects and for all periods presented, and have discussed such policies with our Audit Committee. Film Accounting Revenue Recognition Revenue we earn in connection with the exhibition of feature films by our Filmed Entertainment segment is recognized in accordance with the accounting guidance for producers or distributors of films. Our Filmed Entertainment segment principally earns revenue from the exhibition of feature film content based upon theatrical exhibition, home entertainment and various television markets (e.g., network, pay, syndication, basic cable). We recognize revenue from theatrical distribution of motion pictures upon exhibition. We recognize revenue from home entertainment product sales, net of anticipated returns, including rebates and other incentives, upon the later of delivery or the date that these products are made widely available for sale by retailers. We recognize revenue from the licensing of feature films and original programming for exhibition in television markets upon availability for airing by the licensee. We recognize revenue for video on demand and similar pay per view arrangements as the feature films are exhibited based on end customer purchases as reported by the distributor. Original Production and Film Costs We capitalize original production, including original programming and feature film costs, on a title specific basis, as Inventory, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We use an individual forecast computation method to amortize the costs over the applicable titles life cycle based upon the ratio of current period to estimated remaining total gross revenues (ultimate revenues) for each title. We expense advertising costs as they are incurred and expense manufacturing costs, such as DVD manufacturing costs, on a unit specific basis when we recognize the related revenue. Our estimate of ultimate revenues for feature films includes revenues from all sources that are estimated to be earned within ten years from the date of a films initial theatrical release. For acquired film libraries, our estimate of ultimate revenues is for a period within 20 years from the date of acquisition. Prior to the release of a feature film and throughout its life, we estimate the ultimate revenues based on the historical performance of similar content, as well as incorporating factors of the content itself, including, but not limited to, the expected number of theaters and markets in which the original content will be released, the genre of the original content and the past box office performance of the lead actors and actresses. We believe the most sensitive factor affecting our estimate of ultimate revenues for films intended for theatrical release is domestic theatrical exhibition, as subsequent markets have historically exhibited a high correlation to domestic theatrical performance. Upon a films release and determination of domestic theatrical performance, our estimates of revenues from succeeding windows and markets are revised based on historical relationships and an analysis of current market trends. The 64 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) most sensitive factor affecting our estimates for films subsequent to their initial release is the extent of home entertainment sales achieved. In addition to theatrical performance, home entertainment sales vary based on a variety of factors including demand for our titles, the volume and quality of competing home entertainment products, marketing and promotional strategies, as well as economic conditions. For original programming, capitalized program costs are amortized over the projected useful life of the programming, depending on genre and historical experience, beginning with the month of initial exhibition. The most sensitive factor affecting ultimate revenues is the programs rating. Program ratings, which are an indication of audience acceptance, directly impact the level of advertising revenues we will be able to generate during the airing of the programming. Poor ratings may result in abandonment of a program, which would require the immediate write off of any unamortized production costs. The estimate of ultimate revenues impacts the timing of original production cost amortization. Upon a films initial release we update our estimate of ultimate revenues based on expected future and actual results. We also review and revise estimates of ultimate revenue and participation costs as of each reporting date to reflect the most current available information. If estimates for a film are revised, the difference between amortization expense determined using the new estimate and any amounts previously expensed during that fiscal year are charged or credited to our Consolidated Statements of Earnings in the quarter in which the estimates are revised. If we believe that the release of our content will not be or has not been favorably received, then we would assess whether the fair value of such content is less than the unamortized portion of its capitalized costs and, if need be, recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the unamortized capitalized costs exceed the fair value. We utilize the individual film forecast computation method (adjusted to incorporate revenue and related costs, including future exploitation costs, if any, expected to occur in periods beyond 10 years from the date of the films initial release) to develop the cash flows which are subsequently discounted to compute the fair value of a film at each reporting period. The discount rate utilized takes into account the time value of money as well as a risk premium. The risk premium reflects the uncertainties of realizing the expected cash flows of a film title which is impacted by a film titles position within its product life cycle. Acquired Programming Rights We report an asset and liability for the rights acquired and obligations incurred at the commencement of the licensing period when the cost of the programming is known or reasonably determinable, the program material has been accepted and the programming is available for airing. We record the transaction using the gross liability provision. The asset is amortized to operating expenses over the license period or projected useful life of the programming, if shorter, commencing upon availability. Determining factors used in estimating the useful life of programming includes the expected number of future airings, which may differ from the contracted number of airings, the length of the license period and expected future revenues to be generated from the programming. The cost basis of acquired programming is the capitalized cost of each program and is equal to the cost of the programming pursuant to the license agreement less the cumulative amortization recorded for the program. Capitalized costs of rights to program materials are reported in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at the lower of unamortized cost or estimated net realizable value. We evaluate net realizable value of acquired rights programming quarterly on a daypart basis. A daypart is defined as an aggregation of programs broadcast during a particular time of day or an aggregation of programs of a similar type. We aggregate similar programming based on the specific demographic targeted by each respective program service. Net realizable value is determined by estimating advertising revenues to be derived from the future airing of the programming within the daypart as well as an allocation of affiliate fee revenue to programming. An impairment charge may be necessary if our estimates of future cash flows of similar programming are insufficient or if programming is abandoned. 65 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Revenue Recognition Gross versus Net Revenue Recognition We earn and recognize revenues where we act as distributor on behalf of third parties. In such cases, determining whether revenue should be reported on a gross or net basis is based on managements assessment of whether we act as the principal or agent in the transaction. To the extent we act as the principal in a transaction, we report revenues on a gross basis. Determining whether we act as principal or agent in a transaction involves judgment and is based on an evaluation of whether we have the substantial risks and rewards of ownership under the terms of an arrangement. Our most significant distribution arrangements are in connection with certain exclusive distribution rights to and home video fulfillment services for the animated feature films produced by DreamWorks Animation, the distribution agreement with CBS and our continuing distribution relationship with Marvel for the films we theatrically distributed. Under the terms of these agreements, we generally are responsible for all out of pocket costs, primarily comprised of distribution and marketing costs. For the provision of distribution services, we generally retain a fee based upon a percentage of gross receipts and recover expended distribution and marketing costs on a title by title basis prior to any participation payments to the contracting parties of the films, except as pertains to certain contractually agreed upon advance payments, if applicable. As primary obligor, revenue and related distribution and marketing costs for these arrangements are presented on a gross basis. Sales Returns, Allowances and Uncollectible Accounts In accordance with the accounting guidance related to revenue recognition when a right of return exists, revenue allowances are recorded to adjust amounts originally invoiced to the estimated net realizable value of a particular product. Upon the sale of home entertainment products to wholesalers and retailers, we record a reduction of revenue for the impact of estimated future returns, rebates and other incentives (estimated returns). In determining estimated returns, we consider numerous sources of qualitative and quantitative evidence including forecasted sales data, customers rights of return, units shipped and units remaining at retail, historical return rates for similar product, current economic trends, competitive environment, promotions and sales strategies. Forecasted sales data is determined by comparing a particular release to product that has similar characteristics where applicable, such as franchise, genre, box office levels and release patterns, using regression analysis, decay rates and other tools. Based on the results of this analysis and the sales strategies to be used for the release, we reserve an appropriate percentage of each dollar of product revenue on a title taking into consideration the qualitative and quantitative factors described above. Forecasted sales data is reviewed and updated throughout each quarter, and, with respect to home entertainment product, is consistent with the projections of ultimate revenues used in applying the individual forecast computation method to amortize our film costs. Accordingly, a change in forecasted sales affects both the revenue allowance and related expenses. Actual sell through data is reviewed as it becomes available against the forecasted sales data to ensure that estimates continue to be consistent with actual sales performance. Our estimate of future returns affects reported revenue and operating income. If we underestimate the impact of future returns in a particular period, then we may record less revenue and related expenses in later periods when returns exceed the estimated amounts. If we overestimate the impact of future returns in a particular period, then we may record additional revenue and related expenses in later periods when returns are less than estimated. An incremental change of 1% in our estimated sales returns rate (i.e., provisions for returns divided by gross sales of related product) for home entertainment products would have a $27 million impact on our total revenue for the year ended September 30, 2011. This revenue impact would be partially offset by a corresponding impact on related expenses depending on the margin associated with a specific film and other factors. In computing our sales returns rate, sales include home entertainment revenues of our Filmed Entertainment and Media Networks segments. Home entertainment revenues of our Media Networks segment are included within Media Networks ancillary revenues. 66 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) We also continually evaluate accounts receivable and establish judgments as to their ultimate collectability. Judgments and estimates involved include an analysis of specific risks on a customer by customer basis for larger accounts and an analysis of actual historical write off experience in conjunction with the length of time the receivables are past due. Using this information, management reserves an amount that is estimated to be uncollectible. An incremental change of 1% in our allowance for uncollectible accounts relative to our trade accounts receivables would have a $21 million impact on our operating results for the year ended September 30, 2011. Provision for Income Taxes As a global entertainment content company, we are subject to income taxes in the United States and foreign jurisdictions where we have operations. Significant judgment is required in determining our annual provision for income taxes and evaluating our income tax positions. Our tax rates are affected by many factors, including our global mix of earnings, legislation, acquisitions and dispositions, as well as the tax characteristics of our income. In determining our income tax provisions on a jurisdiction basis, we are required to make judgments on the need to record deferred tax assets and liabilities, including the realizability of deferred tax assets. A valuation allowance for deferred tax assets is established if it is more likely than not that a deferred tax asset will not be realized. In evaluating uncertain tax positions, we make determinations of the application of complex tax rules, regulations and practices. We evaluate our uncertain tax positions quarterly based on many factors including, but not limited to, new facts, changes in tax law and information received from regulators. A change in any one of these factors could change our evaluation of an existing uncertain tax position, resulting in the recognition of an additional charge or benefit to our income tax provision in the period. As such, going forward, our effective tax rate may fluctuate. Additionally, our income tax returns are routinely audited and settlements of issues raised in these audits sometimes affect our tax provisions. The resolution of audit issues and income tax positions taken may take extended periods of time due to the length of examinations by tax authorities and the possible extension of statutes of limitations. A 1% change in our effective rate, excluding discrete items, would result in additional income tax expense of approximately $32 million for the year ended September 30, 2011. We permanently reinvest the earnings of substantially all of our foreign subsidiaries outside the United States. We do not provide for U.S. taxes on earnings of our foreign subsidiaries for which the earnings are permanently reinvested. Fair Value Measurements The performance of fair value measurements is an integral part of the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell the asset or paid to transfer the liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. Selection of the appropriate valuation technique, as well as determination of assumptions, risks and estimates used by market participants in pricing the asset or liability requires significant judgment. Although we believe that the inputs used in our valuation techniques are reasonable, a change in one or more of the inputs could result in an increase or decrease in the fair value of certain assets and certain liabilities. Either instance would have an impact on both our Consolidated Balance Sheet and Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Provided below are those instances where the determination of fair value could have the most significant impact on our financial condition or results of operations: Goodwill. Goodwill at September 30, 2011 relates to our reporting units Music and Logo ($2.0 billion), Nickelodeon ($2.9 billion), Entertainment ($1.8 billion), BET Networks ($2.7 billion) and Paramount ($1.6 billion). In September 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued new guidance that permits 67 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the two step annual goodwill impairment test. If an entity believes, as a result of its qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount, the quantitative impairment test is not required. The guidance is effective for goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011 with early adoption permitted. We adopted the new guidance for our August 31, 2011 annual goodwill impairment test. Based on our qualitative assessment, including but not limited to, consideration of macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, cost factors, cash flows, changes in key Company personnel and our share price, we were not required to perform the two step goodwill impairment test for any of our reporting units. Under the accounting rules in effect in 2010 and 2009, we were required to perform the annual quantitative impairment test. The first step of a quantitative goodwill impairment test is to identify a potential impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. The second step, if necessary, compares the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. The estimates of fair value of a reporting unit were determined based on a discounted cash flow analysis. A discounted cash flow analysis requires us to make various judgmental assumptions, including assumptions about the timing and amount of future cash flows, growth rates and discount rates. Given the inherent uncertainty in determining these assumptions, actual results may differ from those used in our valuations. The assumptions about future cash flows and growth rates were based on the budget and long term business plans of each operating segment. Such assumptions took into account numerous factors including historical experience, anticipated economic conditions, advertising sales and ratings trends, terms of affiliate license arrangements and anticipated terms of renewals, projected costs for production and programming, number and expected financial performance of films expected to be produced and distributed each year and changes in the reporting unit cost structures. Discount rate assumptions for each reporting unit took into account our assessment of the risks inherent in the future cash flows of the respective reporting unit and our weighted average cost of capital. We also reviewed marketplace data to assess the reasonableness of our computation of Viacoms overall weighted average cost of capital and, when available, the discount rates utilized for each of our reporting units. Discontinued Operations In connection with our 2010 goodwill impairment test, we recorded a $230 million goodwill impairment charge related to Harmonix. The estimated fair value of Harmonix was determined using a discounted cash flow analysis. Significant assumptions reflected in the analysis include the estimated future cash flows of the business and discount rate. A one percentage point change in the perpetual growth rate or discount rate would not have resulted in a significant change in the goodwill impairment charge. Finite Lived Intangible Assets. In determining whether finite lived intangible assets (e.g., customer lists, film libraries) are impaired, the accounting rules do not provide for an annual impairment test. Instead, they require that a triggering event occur before testing an asset for impairment. Once a triggering event has occurred, the impairment test employed is based on whether the intent is to hold the asset for continued use or to hold the asset for sale. If the intent is to hold the asset for continued use, first a comparison of undiscounted future cash flows against the carrying value of the asset is performed. If the carrying value exceeds the undiscounted cash flows, the asset would be written down to the discounted fair value. If the intent is to hold the asset for sale, to the extent the carrying value is greater than the assets value, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference. 68 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Significant judgments in this area involve determining whether a triggering event has occurred, the determination of the cash flows for the assets involved and the discount rate to be applied in determining fair value. OTHER MATTERS Related Parties National Amusements Inc. (NAI), directly and through a wholly owned subsidiary, is the controlling stockholder of both Viacom and CBS Corporation (CBS). Sumner M. Redstone, the controlling shareholder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of NAI, serves as our Executive Chairman and Founder and as the Executive Chairman and Founder of CBS. Shari Redstone, who is Sumner Redstones daughter, is the President and a director of NAI, and serves as non executive Vice Chair of the Board of Directors of both Viacom and CBS. George Abrams, one of our directors, serves on the boards of both NAI and Viacom, and Frederic Salerno, another of our directors, serves on the boards of both Viacom and CBS. Philippe Dauman, our President and Chief Executive Officer, also serves on the boards of both NAI and Viacom. Transactions between Viacom and related parties are overseen by our Governance and Nominating Committee. Viacom and NAI Related Party Transactions NAI licenses films in the ordinary course of business for its motion picture theaters from all major studios, including Paramount. Paramount earned revenues from NAI in connection with these licenses in the aggregate amounts of approximately $44 million in 2011, $21 million in 2010 and $34 million in 2009. Viacom and CBS Corporation Related Party Transactions In the ordinary course of business, we are involved in transactions with CBS and its various businesses that result in the recognition of revenues and expenses by Viacom. Transactions with CBS are settled in cash. Paramount earns revenues and recognizes expenses associated with the distribution of certain television products into the home entertainment market on behalf of CBS. Under the terms of the agreement, Paramount is entitled to retain a fee based on a percentage of gross receipts and is generally responsible for all out of pocket costs which are recoupable together with any advance amounts paid, prior to any participation payments to CBS. In connection with this agreement, Paramount made payments of $50 million in the quarter ended March 31, 2011, and $100 million in each of the quarters ended March 31, 2010 and 2009. Paramount also earns revenues from CBS through leasing of studio space and licensing of certain film products. Additionally, the Media Networks segment recognizes advertising revenues from CBS. The Media Networks segment purchases television programming from CBS. The cost of such purchases is initially recorded as acquired program rights inventory and amortized over the estimated period that revenues will be generated. Both of our segments recognize advertising expenses related to the placement of advertisements with CBS. 69 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) The following table summarizes the transactions with CBS as included in our consolidated financial statements. CBS Related Party Transactions (in millions) Year EndedSeptember 30,2011 Nine Months EndedSeptember 30,2010 Year EndedDecember 31,2009 Consolidated Statements of Earnings Revenues $ 341 $ 244 $ 406 Operating expenses $ 434 $ 318 $ 504 September 30, 2011 2010 Consolidated Balance Sheets Accounts receivable $ 6 $ 9 Other assets 1 1 Total due from CBS $ 7 $ 10 Accounts payable $ 1 $ 4 Participants share and residuals, current 162 227 Program rights obligations, current 73 100 Program rights obligations, noncurrent 243 263 Other liabilities 37 39 Total due to CBS $ 516 $ 633 Agreements with CBS Corporation In connection with the separation, we and CBS entered into a Separation Agreement, a Transition Services Agreement and a Tax Matters Agreement, as well as certain other agreements to govern the terms of the separation and certain of the ongoing relationships between CBS and us after the separation. These related party arrangements are more fully described below. Indemnification Obligations. Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, each company indemnified the other company and the other companys officers, directors and employees for any losses arising out of its failure to perform or discharge any of the liabilities it assumed pursuant to the Separation Agreement, including with respect to certain legal matters, its businesses as conducted as of the date of the separation and its breaches of shared contracts. Limitations on Certain Acquisitions. Subject to limited exceptions, the Separation Agreement provides that none of Viacom, any subsidiary of Viacom or any person that is controlled by Viacom after the separation will own or acquire an interest in a radio or television broadcast station, television broadcast network or daily newspaper, if such ownership or acquisition would (i) cause CBS, any subsidiary of CBS or any entity controlled by CBS after the date of the separation to be in violation of U.S. federal laws limiting the ownership or control of radio broadcast stations, television broadcast stations and or television broadcast networks or (ii) limit in any manner at any time under such laws CBS ability to acquire additional interests in a radio or television broadcast station and or television broadcast network. These restrictions will terminate when none of Mr. Redstone, NAI, NAIRI or any of their successors, assigns or transferees are deemed to have interests in both CBS and Viacom that are attributable under applicable U.S. federal laws. The Separation Agreement also provides that neither Viacom, any subsidiary of Viacom or any person controlled by Viacom nor CBS, any subsidiary of CBS or any person controlled by CBS will acquire any asset, enter into any agreement or accept or agree to any condition that purports to bind, or subjects to a legal order, the other company, its subsidiaries or any person it controls without such other partys written consent. 70 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Tax Matters The Tax Matters Agreement sets forth Viacoms responsibilities with respect to, among other things, liabilities for federal, state, local and foreign income taxes for periods before and including the merger, the preparation and filing of income tax returns for such periods, disputes with taxing authorities regarding income taxes for such periods and indemnification for income taxes that would become due if the merger were taxable. Viacom is generally responsible for federal, state and local, and foreign income taxes for periods before the merger relating to Viacoms respective businesses. Income tax liabilities relating to discontinued operations and previously disposed businesses have been allocated in accordance with the principles applicable under the Separation Agreement for liabilities relating to those operations and businesses. Other income tax liabilities, including items that do not specifically relate to either business, will be shared equally. Viacom and CBS will generally be jointly responsible for managing any dispute relating to income taxes for which both parties may be responsible. The Tax Matters Agreement also provides that, depending on the event, Viacom may have to indemnify CBS, or CBS may have to indemnify Viacom, for some or all of the taxes resulting from the transactions related to the merger and the distribution of Viacom common stock if the merger and distribution do not qualify as tax free under Sections 355 and 368 of the Code. Other Related Party Transactions In the ordinary course of business, we are involved in related party transactions with equity investees, principally related to investments in unconsolidated variable interest entities as more fully described in Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. These related party transactions principally relate to the provision of advertising services, licensing of film and programming content, distribution of films and provision of certain administrative support services, for which the impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements is as follows: Other Related Party Transactions (in millions) Year EndedSeptember 30,2011 Nine Months EndedSeptember 30,2010 Year EndedDecember 31,2009 Consolidated Statements of Earnings Revenues $ 239 $ 168 $ 375 Operating expenses $ 83 $ 53 $ 207 Selling, general and administrative $ (16 ) $ (24 ) $ September 30, 2011 2010 Consolidated Balance Sheets Accounts receivable $ 88 $ 88 Other assets 2 9 Total due from other related parties $ 90 $ 97 Accounts payable $ 32 $ 26 Other liabilities 10 29 Total due to other related parties $ 42 $ 55 All other related party transactions are not material in the periods presented. 71 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Disclosures on our market risk are included in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition Market Risk. 
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition. Managements discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition is provided as a supplement to and should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes to enhance the understanding of our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. References in this document to Viacom, Company, we, us and our mean Viacom Inc. and our consolidated subsidiaries through which our various businesses are conducted, unless the context requires otherwise. Certain amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 2011 presentation. Significant components of the managements discussion and analysis of results of operations and financial condition section include: Page Overview. The overview section provides a summary of Viacom and our reportable business segments and the principal factors affecting our results of operations. 37 Results of Operations. The results of operations section provides an analysis of our results on a consolidated basis and our reportable operating segment results for the years ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, and the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. In addition, we provide a discussion of items affecting the comparability of our financial statements. 40 Liquidity and Capital Resources. The liquidity and capital resources section provides a discussion of our cash flows for the years ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, and the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 and of our outstanding debt, commitments and contingencies existing as of September 30, 2011. 56 Market Risk. We are principally exposed to market risk related to foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. The market risk section discusses how we manage exposure to these and other market risks. 63 Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates. The critical accounting policies section provides detail with respect to accounting policies that are considered by management to require significant judgment and use of estimates and that could have a significant impact on our financial statements. 64 Other Matters. The other matters section provides a discussion of related party transactions and agreements. 69 36 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) OVERVIEW Summary We are a leading global entertainment content company that connects with audiences through compelling content across television, motion picture, online and mobile platforms in more than 160 countries and territories. In 2010, we changed our fiscal year end to September 30 from December 31. We made this change to better align our financial reporting period, as well as our annual planning and budgeting process, with our business cycle, particularly the cable broadcast year. This Annual Report on Form 10 K reports our financial results for the year ended September 30, 2011 (our first full fiscal year since the change), the nine month transition period from January 1, 2010 through September 30, 2010 and the year ended December 31, 2009. For purposes of comparison, we have included the unaudited financial results for the year ended September 30, 2010 (which reflects our combined results for the quarter ended December 31, 2009 and the nine month transition period from January 1, 2010 through September 30, 2010) and nine months ended September 30, 2009. See Note 19 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information. We manage our operations through two reporting segments: Media Networks and Filmed Entertainment. Our measure of segment performance is adjusted operating income (loss). We define adjusted operating income (loss) for our segments as operating income (loss), less equity based compensation and certain other items identified as affecting comparability, including restructuring charges and asset impairment, when applicable (Factors Affecting Comparability). Equity based compensation is excluded from our segment measure of performance since it is set and approved by the Compensation Committee of Viacoms Board of Directors in consultation with corporate executive management, and is included as a component of consolidated adjusted operating income. We use consolidated adjusted operating income, adjusted net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom and adjusted diluted earnings per share (EPS) from continuing operations, as applicable, among other measures, to evaluate our actual operating performance and for planning and forecasting of future periods. We believe that the adjusted results provide relevant and useful information for investors because they clarify our actual operating performance, make it easier to compare Viacoms results with those of other companies and allow investors to review performance in the same way as our management. Since these are not measures of performance calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP), they should not be considered in isolation of, or as a substitute for operating income, net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom and diluted EPS as indicators of operating performance and they may not be comparable to similarly titled measures employed by other companies. For a reconciliation of our adjusted measures and discussion of the items affecting comparability refer to the section entitled Factors Affecting Comparability. Media Networks Our Media Networks segment, which includes brands such as MTV, VH1, CMT, Logo, Nickelodeon, Nick Jr., TeenNick, Nicktoons, Nick at Nite, Neopets, COMEDY CENTRAL, TV Land, Spike TV, Tr3s, BET, CENTRIC, AddictingGames and Shockwave, provides entertainment content and related branded products for consumers in targeted demographics attractive to advertisers, content distributors and retailers. We create, acquire and distribute programming and other content to our audiences across multiple platforms, which allows them to engage with our content how and where they want to view and interact with it: on television, online and on mobile devices and through a variety of consumer products. Our Media Networks segment generates revenues principally in three categories: (i) the sale of advertising time related to our content and associated marketing services, (ii) affiliate fees from cable television operators, 37 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) direct to home satellite television operators, digital distributors and mobile networks and (iii) ancillary revenues, which include consumer products licensing, brand licensing, home entertainment sales of our programming, television syndication and casual gaming. Our advertising revenues may be affected by the strength of advertising markets and general economic conditions and may fluctuate depending on the success of our programming, as measured by viewership, at any given time. Advertising revenues may also fluctuate due to seasonal variations, typically being highest in the first quarter of our fiscal year. Our affiliate agreements with cable and satellite operators are generally multi year carriage agreements with set rate increases that provide us with a reasonably stable source of revenues. The amount of the fees we receive is generally a function of the number of subscribers and the rates we receive per subscriber. Expirations of our affiliate agreements are staggered. Digital distribution agreements typically cover a large amount of programming and provide for various dates upon which each program becomes available for distribution on the digital platform. Revenue from these arrangements is recognized upon program availability and will fluctuate quarterly depending on the availability of the programs licensed. Digital distribution agreements are generally for a shorter term than carriage agreements with traditional cable and satellite operators. Our ancillary revenues vary based on consumer spending, the popularity of our programming, volume of content available for sale during a particular period and acceptance of our or our partners products. Media Networks segment expenses consist of operating expenses, selling, general and administrative (SG&A) expenses and depreciation and amortization. Operating expenses comprise costs related to original and acquired programming, including programming amortization, expenses associated with the manufacturing and distribution of home entertainment products and consumer products licensing, participation fees and other costs of sales. SG&A expenses consist primarily of employee compensation, marketing, research and professional service fees and facility and occupancy costs. Depreciation and amortization expenses reflect depreciation of fixed assets, including transponders financed under capital leases, and amortization of finite lived intangible assets. In December 2010, we completed the sale of Harmonix Music Systems, Inc. (Harmonix), a developer of music based games, including the Rock Band franchise. Accordingly, the results of operations of Harmonix, which were previously included in the Media Networks segment are presented as discontinued operations in all periods presented. Filmed Entertainment Our Filmed Entertainment segment produces, finances and distributes motion pictures and other entertainment content under the Paramount Pictures, Paramount Vantage, Paramount Classics, Insurge Pictures, MTV Films, and Nickelodeon Movies brands. Paramount also acquires films for distribution and has distribution relationships with third parties, including DreamWorks Animation SKG, Inc. (DreamWorks Animation). In fiscal year 2011, Paramount distributed the final two theatrical titles under its distribution arrangement with MVL Productions LLC (Marvel), now a subsidiary of The Walt Disney Company. In general, motion pictures produced, acquired and or distributed by our Filmed Entertainment segment are exhibited theatrically domestically and internationally, followed by their release in various windows on DVD and Blu ray, video on demand, subscription video on demand, pay and basic cable television, broadcast television and syndicated television, and, in some cases, by other exhibitors such as airlines and hotels (the distribution windows). In fiscal year 2011, the Filmed Entertainment segment theatrically released in domestic and or 38 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) international markets Transformers: Dark of the Moon, Super 8, True Grit and Rango, among others. Paramount also distributed Marvels Thor and Captain America: The First Avenger and DreamWorks Animations Kung Fu Panda 2 and Megamind. Our Filmed Entertainment segment generates revenues worldwide principally from: (i) the theatrical release and or distribution of motion pictures, (ii) home entertainment, which includes sales of DVD, Blu ray and other products relating to the motion pictures we release theatrically and direct to DVD, as well as certain other programming, including content we distribute on behalf of third parties, (iii) television and digital license fees paid worldwide by third parties for film exhibition rights during the various other distribution windows and through digital distributors and (iv) ancillary revenues from providing production services to third parties, primarily at Paramounts studio lot, licensing of its brands for consumer products and theme parks, distribution of content specifically developed for digital platforms and game distribution. Revenues from motion picture theatrical releases tend to be cyclical with increases during the summer months and around holidays, particularly in the first quarter of our fiscal year. The theatrical success of a motion picture is a significant factor in determining the revenues it is likely to generate in home entertainment sales and licensing fees during the various other distribution windows. Our home entertainment revenues may also be affected by the number, timing and mix of home entertainment releases in any given period, consumer tastes and consumption habits, the prominence given by distributors and retailers to our releases compared to those of our competitors, and by overall economic conditions, including consumer preference for rental or purchase and trends in discretionary spending. The industry continues to experience softness in the DVD market as a result of several factors, including the maturation of the standard definition DVD format, the emergence of various digital distribution platforms and weakness in the overall economy. We continue to focus on our inventory and supply chain management by carefully managing initial and replenishment shipments on home entertainment new releases, shelf space needs for catalog titles and other promotional and operating strategic initiatives. The output term of Paramounts agreement with DreamWorks Animation expires on the later of the delivery of 13 qualified animated motion pictures and December 31, 2012, subject to earlier termination under certain limited circumstances. Paramount has distributed 11 DreamWorks Animation films under the agreement and expects to distribute the last two films under the current agreement in fiscal year 2012. In October 2010, Paramount and Marvel amended the arrangement under which Paramount distributes certain of Marvels self produced feature films on a worldwide basis. Paramount transferred to Marvel substantially all of its worldwide distribution rights to The Avengers and all of its worldwide distribution rights to Iron Man 3, in exchange for aggregate minimum guaranteed payments to Paramount of $115 million and the right for Paramount to receive certain contingent consideration. Paramount retained its distribution rights to Thor and Captain America: The First Avenger, which were released in fiscal year 2011, and to the previously released Iron Man and Iron Man 2. Filmed Entertainment segment expenses consist of operating expenses, SG&A expenses and depreciation and amortization. Operating expenses principally include the amortization of film costs of our released feature films (including participations accrued under our third party distribution arrangements), print and advertising expenses and other distribution costs. We incur marketing costs before and throughout the theatrical release of a film and, to a lesser extent, other distribution windows. Such costs are incurred to generate public interest in our films and are expensed as incurred; therefore, we typically incur losses with respect to a particular film prior to and during the films theatrical exhibition and profitability may not be realized until well after a films theatrical release. 39 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Therefore, the results of the Filmed Entertainment segment can be volatile as films work their way through the various distribution windows. SG&A expenses include employee compensation, facility and occupancy costs, professional service fees and other overhead costs. Depreciation and amortization expense includes depreciation of fixed assets and amortization of finite lived intangible assets. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS Year ended September 30, 2011 vs. 2010 Consolidated Results of Operations Our summary consolidated results of operations are presented below for the years ended September 30, 2011 and 2010. As previously noted, the year ended September 30, 2010 reflects our unaudited combined results for the quarter ended December 31, 2009 and the nine month transition period from January 1, 2010 through September 30, 2010. Year Ended September 30, Better/(Worse) (in millions, except per share amounts) 2011 2010 $ % Revenues $ 14,914 $ 13,356 $ 1,558 12 % Operating income 3,710 3,348 362 11 Adjusted operating income 3,854 3,408 446 13 Net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom 2,146 1,899 247 13 Adjusted net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom 2,247 1,841 406 22 Diluted EPS from continuing operations 3.61 3.11 0.50 16 Adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations $ 3.78 $ 3.02 $ 0.76 25 % See the section entitled Factors Affecting Comparability for a reconciliation of our adjusted measures to our reported results. Revenues Worldwide revenues increased $1.558 billion, or 12%, to $14.914 billion in the year ended September 30, 2011. Media Networks contributed $814 million of the increase reflecting higher advertising and affiliate revenues. Filmed Entertainment contributed $770 million of the increase, principally reflecting higher theatrical and ancillary revenues, partially offset by lower home entertainment revenues. Operating Income Adjusted operating income increased $446 million, or 13%, to $3.854 billion in the year ended September 30, 2011. Media Networks adjusted operating income increased $467 million, principally reflecting the increased revenues, partially offset by increased expenses. Filmed Entertainment was substantially flat. Adjusted results for the year ended September 30, 2011 exclude the impact of $144 million of restructuring charges, principally related to workforce reductions, while the adjusted results for the year ended September 30, 2010 exclude the impact of a $60 million asset impairment. Including the impact of the current year restructuring charges and prior year asset impairment, operating income increased $362 million, or 11%, in the year ended September 30, 2011. See the section entitled Segment Results of Operations for a more in depth discussion of the revenues, expenses and adjusted operating income for each of the Media Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments. Net Earnings from Continuing Operations Attributable to Viacom Adjusted net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom increased $406 million, or 22%, in the year ended September 30, 2011, principally due to the increase in tax effected adjusted operating income 40 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) described above and higher equity income principally due to EPIX generating equity income this year as compared with losses in the prior year. Our effective income tax rate was 34.3% in the year ended September 30, 2011, as compared with 35.9% in the year ended September 30, 2010, excluding the impact of discrete items. The reduction in this years effective rate is principally due to a change in mix of domestic and international income. Adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations increased $0.76 per diluted share to $3.78. Including the impact of the current year restructuring charges, loss on extinguishment of debt and discrete tax benefits, and prior year asset impairment and discrete tax benefits, net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom increased $247 million, or 13%, in the year ended September 30, 2011. Diluted EPS from continuing operations increased $0.50 per diluted share to $3.61. See the section entitled Factors Affecting Comparability for a reconciliation of our adjusted measures to our reported results. Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax The loss from discontinued operations in both years was principally related to Harmonix. The $10 million loss in 2011 principally reflects the loss on the disposal of Harmonix and the Harmonix operating loss for the period through the date of sale, partially offset by the related tax benefit. The $351 million loss in 2010 principally reflects a $230 million impairment loss on Harmonix goodwill and other charges of approximately $30 million, principally related to unamortized development costs and other assets associated with legacy versions of the Rock Band game. Segment Results of Operations Transactions between reportable segments are accounted for as third party arrangements for the purposes of presenting segment results of operations. Typical intersegment transactions include the purchase of advertising by the Filmed Entertainment segment on Media Networks properties and the purchase of Filmed Entertainments feature films exhibition rights by Media Networks. Media Networks Year Ended September 30, Better/(Worse) (in millions) 2011 2010 $ % Revenues by Component Advertising $ 4,997 $ 4,553 $ 444 10 % Affiliate fees 3,519 3,138 381 12 Ancillary 629 640 (11) (2 ) Total revenues by component $ 9,145 $ 8,331 $ 814 10 % Expenses Operating $ 3,025 $ 2,822 $ (203) (7 )% Selling, general and administrative 2,095 1,927 (168) (9 ) Depreciation and amortization 177 201 24 12 Total expenses $ 5,297 $ 4,950 $ (347) (7 )% Adjusted Operating Income $ 3,848 $ 3,381 $ 467 14 % Revenues Worldwide revenues increased $814 million, or 10%, to $9.145 billion in the year ended September 30, 2011, driven by increases in advertising and affiliate revenues. Domestic revenues were $7.722 billion, an increase of $696 million, or 10%. International revenues were $1.423 billion, an increase of $118 million, or 9%. Foreign exchange had a 3 percentage point favorable impact on international revenues. 41 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Advertising Worldwide advertising revenues increased $444 million, or 10%, to $4.997 billion in the year ended September 30, 2011. Domestic advertising revenues increased 10%, reflecting the strength of last years upfront and this years scatter markets. International advertising revenues increased 9%, with a 3 percentage point favorable impact from foreign exchange on international growth. Affiliate Fees Worldwide affiliate fees increased $381 million, or 12%, to $3.519 billion in the year ended September 30, 2011. Domestic affiliate revenues increased 12%, principally reflecting rate increases. Domestic revenues also benefited from the availability of certain programming related to digital distribution arrangements. Excluding the impact of digital distribution arrangements, domestic affiliate revenue growth was in the high single digits. International affiliate revenues increased 11%, with a 4 percentage point favorable impact from foreign exchange on international growth. Expenses Media Networks segment expenses increased $347 million, or 7%, to $5.297 billion in the year ended September 30, 2011, driven by increases in programming and SG&A costs. Operating Operating expenses increased $203 million, or 7%, to $3.025 billion in the year ended September 30, 2011, principally driven by our continuing investment in programming. Programming expenses increased $187 million, or 7%. Selling, General and Administrative SG&A increased $168 million, or 9%, to $2.095 billion in the year ended September 30, 2011, principally reflecting higher employeerelated costs, including accrued incentive compensation costs associated with the improved operating performance, as well as higher advertising and promotional expenses related to marketing original programming. Adjusted Operating Income Adjusted operating income increased $467 million, or 14%, to $3.848 billion in the year ended September 30, 2011, principally reflecting the higher advertising and affiliate revenues, partially offset by our continuing investment in programming and higher SG&A costs. Filmed Entertainment Year Ended September 30, Better/(Worse) (in millions) 2011 2010 $ % Revenues by Component Theatrical $ 2,175 $ 1,376 $ 799 58 % Home entertainment 1,890 2,096 (206) (10 ) Television license fees 1,417 1,383 34 2 Ancillary 441 298 143 48 Total revenues by component $ 5,923 $ 5,153 $ 770 15 % Expenses Operating $ 4,997 $ 4,194 $ (803) (19 )% Selling, general & administrative 496 520 24 5 Depreciation & amortization 89 99 10 10 Total expenses $ 5,582 $ 4,813 $ (769) (16 )% Adjusted Operating Income $ 341 $ 340 $ 1 42 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Revenues Worldwide revenues increased $770 million, or 15%, to $5.923 billion in the year ended September 30, 2011, driven by higher theatrical and ancillary revenues, partially offset by lower home entertainment revenues. Domestic revenues were $2.960 billion, an increase of $346 million, or 13%. International revenues were $2.963 billion, an increase of $424 million, or 17%, with a 4 percentage point favorable impact from foreign exchange on international revenues. Theatrical Worldwide theatrical revenues increased $799 million, or 58%, to $2.175 billion in the year ended September 30, 2011, principally driven by the strength and number of our current year releases. During the year ended September 30, 2011, we released sixteen films, including Transformers: Dark of the Moon, DreamWorks Animations Kung Fu Panda 2, Marvels Thor and Captain America: The First Avenger, DreamWorks Animations Megamind, Super 8, True Grit, Rango, Jackass 3D and Paranormal Activity 2, as compared to thirteen films in the prior year. Domestic and international theatrical revenues increased 44% and 71%, respectively. Foreign exchange had a 9 percentage point favorable impact on international theatrical revenues. Home Entertainment Worldwide home entertainment revenues decreased $206 million, or 10%, to $1.890 billion in the year ended September 30, 2011. Current year releases included DreamWorks Animations How to Train Your Dragon, Shrek Forever After and Megamind, True Grit, The Last Airbender, Thor, Rango, and the domestic release of Transformers: Dark of the Moon on September 30, 2011. The decline was principally driven by lower catalog sales and lower revenues from other third party distribution arrangements. Domestic and international home entertainment revenues decreased 11% and 9%, respectively. Foreign exchange had a 3 percentage point favorable impact on international home entertainment revenues. Television License Fees Worldwide television license fees increased $34 million, or 2%, to $1.417 billion in the year ended September 30, 2011, driven by the number and mix of available titles. Ancillary Ancillary revenues increased $143 million, or 48%, to $441 million in the year ended September 30, 2011, principally driven by the sale of the distribution rights to The Avengers and Iron Man 3 to Marvel, as well as higher digital revenues. Expenses Filmed Entertainment segment expenses increased $769 million, or 16%, to $5.582 billion in the year ended September 30, 2011 due to the increase in operating expenses. Operating Operating expenses increased $803 million, or 19%, to $4.997 billion in the year ended September 30, 2011. Distribution and other costs, principally print and advertising expenses, increased $535 million, or 31%, principally due to the number and mix of theatrical releases. Film costs increased $268 million, or 11%, primarily reflecting higher participation costs, including third party distribution arrangements. Selling, General and Administrative SG&A decreased $24 million, or 5%, to $496 million in the year ended September 30, 2011, principally reflecting lower accrued incentive compensation costs. 43 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Adjusted Operating Income Adjusted operating income was substantially flat at $341 million in the year ended September 30, 2011, principally reflecting the benefit of the sale of the distribution rights to The Avengers and Iron Man 3 to Marvel offset by the lower home entertainment revenues. Nine Months ended September 30, 2010 vs. 2009 Consolidated Results of Operations Our summary consolidated results of operations are presented below for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009. Nine Months Ended September 30, Better/(Worse) (in millions, except per share amounts) 2010 2009 $ % Revenues $ 9,337 $ 9,238 $ 99 1 % Operating income 2,207 1,904 303 16 Adjusted operating income 2,207 1,937 270 14 Net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom 1,175 954 221 23 Adjusted net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom 1,148 953 195 20 Diluted EPS from continuing operations 1.92 1.57 0.35 22 Adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations $ 1.88 $ 1.57 $ 0.31 20 % See the section entitled Factors Affecting Comparability for a reconciliation of our adjusted measures to our reported results. Revenues Worldwide revenues increased $99 million, or 1%, to $9.337 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2010 driven by an increase at Media Networks of $405 million, principally reflecting higher affiliate fees and advertising revenues. Filmed Entertainment revenues decreased $329 million, principally reflecting lower home entertainment revenues, partially offset by higher theatrical revenues. The decrease in home entertainment revenues principally reflects fewer releases as compared with 2009 and lower catalog sales. The increase in theatrical revenues reflects the strength of our 2010 releases. Operating Income Adjusted operating income increased $270 million, or 14%, to $2.207 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2010. Media Networks contributed $192 million of the increase, principally reflecting the increased revenues, partially offset by our continuing investment in programming. Filmed Entertainments adjusted operating income was $38 million, compared with a $56 million operating loss in the comparable period of 2009, principally reflecting the improved profitability of our 2010 releases. Operating income increased $303 million, or 16%. See the section entitled Segment Results of Operations for a more in depth discussion of the revenues, expenses and adjusted operating income (loss) for each of the Media Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments. Net Earnings from Continuing Operations Attributable to Viacom Adjusted net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom increased $195 million, or 20%, in the nine months ended September 30, 2010, principally due to the increase in tax effected adjusted operating income described above and lower foreign exchange losses, which are included in Other items, net. Adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations increased $0.31 per diluted share to $1.88. 44 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Adjusted results exclude the impact of certain items identified as affecting comparability, including discrete tax benefits in both periods and restructuring charges and a loss on extinguishment of debt in 2009. See the section entitled Factors Affecting Comparability for a reconciliation of our adjusted measures to our reported results. Net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom increased $221 million, or 23%, in the nine months ended September 30, 2010. Diluted EPS from continuing operations increased $0.35 per diluted share to $1.92. Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax The loss from discontinued operations, net of tax was $321 million and $37 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The loss in 2010 principally reflects a $230 million impairment loss on Harmonix goodwill and other charges of approximately $30 million, principally related to unamortized development costs and other assets associated with legacy versions of the Rock Band game. Segment Results of Operations Media Networks Nine Months Ended September 30, Better/(Worse) (in millions) 2010 2009 $ % Revenues by Component Advertising $ 3,251 $ 3,103 $ 148 5 % Affiliate fees 2,397 2,160 237 11 Ancillary 429 409 20 5 Total revenues by component $ 6,077 $ 5,672 $ 405 7 % Expenses Operating $ 2,097 $ 1,964 $ (133) (7 )% Selling, general and administrative 1,433 1,350 (83) (6 ) Depreciation and amortization 148 151 3 2 Total expenses $ 3,678 $ 3,465 $ (213) (6 )% Adjusted Operating Income $ 2,399 $ 2,207 $ 192 9 % Revenues Worldwide revenues increased $405 million, or 7%, to $6.077 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2010, primarily driven by increases in affiliate and advertising revenues. Domestic revenues were $5.194 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2010, an increase of $321 million, or 7%. International revenues were $883 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2010, an increase of $84 million, or 11%. Foreign exchange had an insignificant impact on international revenues. Advertising Worldwide advertising revenues increased $148 million, or 5%, to $3.251 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2010, reflecting strength in the global advertising market compared with 2009. Domestic advertising revenues increased 5% reflecting a strong scatter market, partially offset by the effect of the weaker upfront sales completed in 2009. International advertising revenues increased 7%, with a 1 percentage point unfavorable impact from foreign exchange on international growth. Affiliate Fees Worldwide affiliate fees increased $237 million, or 11%, to $2.397 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2010, principally due to rate and subscriber growth. Domestic revenues also benefited from the 45 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) availability of certain programming related to digital distribution arrangements. Domestic affiliate revenues increased 12% and international affiliate revenues increased 7%, with foreign exchange contributing 1 percentage point to international growth. Excluding the impact of digital distribution arrangements, domestic affiliate revenue growth was 10%. Ancillary Worldwide ancillary revenues increased $20 million, or 5%, to $429 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2010. Higher international revenues, reflecting growth in consumer products revenues and television license fees, were partially offset by lower domestic revenues. Expenses Media Networks segment expenses increased $213 million, or 6%, to $3.678 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2010, driven by higher programming costs, reflecting our continuing investment in programming, and incentive compensation costs. Operating Operating expenses increased $133 million, or 7%, to $2.097 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2010. Programming expenses increased $136 million, or 8%, reflecting our continuing investment in programming. Distribution and other expenses decreased $3 million, or 1%. Selling, General and Administrative SG&A increased $83 million, or 6%, to $1.433 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2010, principally due to higher incentive compensation costs, partially offset by lower bad debt expenses. Adjusted Operating Income Adjusted operating income increased $192 million, or 9%, to $2.399 billion for the nine months September 30, 2010, principally reflecting the revenue growth, partially offset by our continuing investment in programming and higher incentive compensation costs. Filmed Entertainment Nine Months Ended September 30, Better/(Worse) (in millions) 2010 2009 $ % Revenues by Component Theatrical $ 1,283 $ 1,228 $ 55 4 % Home entertainment 951 1,356 (405 ) (30 ) Television license fees 938 938 Ancillary 190 169 21 12 Total revenues by component $ 3,362 $ 3,691 $ (329 ) (9 )% Expenses Operating $ 2,888 $ 3,346 $ 458 14 % Selling, general & administrative 367 326 (41 ) (13 ) Depreciation & amortization 69 75 6 8 Total expenses $ 3,324 $ 3,747 $ 423 11 % Adjusted Operating Income (Loss) $ 38 $ (56 ) $ 94 NM NM Not Meaningful 46 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Revenues Worldwide revenues decreased $329 million, or 9%, to $3.362 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2010, driven by a decline in home entertainment revenues, partially offset by higher theatrical revenues. Domestic revenues were $1.598 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2010, a decline of $328 million, or 17%. International revenues were substantially flat at $1.764 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2010, with a 3 percentage point favorable impact from foreign exchange on international revenues. Theatrical Worldwide theatrical revenues increased $55 million, or 4%, to $1.283 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2010, principally driven by the strength of our 2010 releases. During the nine months ended September 30, 2010, we released nine films, including Shrek Forever After, Iron Man 2, How to Train Your Dragon, The Last Airbender and Shutter Island, as compared to thirteen films in 2009. Domestic theatrical revenues decreased 11% reflecting the particularly strong domestic performance of Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen and Star Trek in 2009, while international theatrical revenues increased 23%. Foreign exchange had a 5 percentage point favorable impact on international theatrical revenues. Home Entertainment Worldwide home entertainment revenues decreased $405 million, or 30%, to $951 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2010. The decrease principally reflects fewer releases as compared with 2009. During the nine months ended September 30, 2010, we released five titles, including Iron Man 2 and Shutter Island, as compared to twelve titles in the nine months ended September 30, 2009. Also contributing to the decline were lower catalog sales and lower revenues from other third party distribution arrangements. Domestic and international home entertainment revenues decreased 32% and 28%, respectively, with a 3 percentage point favorable impact from foreign exchange on international home entertainment revenues. Television License Fees Worldwide television license fees were flat at $938 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2010, with an increase in syndication revenues offset by a decrease in pay and network TV revenues reflecting the number and mix of available titles in each window. Ancillary Ancillary revenues increased $21 million, or 12%, to $190 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, principally due to higher digital revenues. Expenses Filmed Entertainment segment expenses decreased $423 million, or 11%, to $3.324 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2010. The reduction in total expenses is principally due to fewer theatrical and home entertainment releases. Operating Operating expenses decreased $458 million, or 14%, to $2.888 billion in the nine months ended September 30, 2010. Distribution and other costs, principally print and advertising expenses, decreased by $333 million, or 20%, primarily related to the fewer number of theatrical and home entertainment releases as well as cost savings initiatives. Film costs declined $125 million, or 7%, primarily reflecting lower amortization of film costs due to the number and mix of current releases. Selling, General and Administrative SG&A increased $41 million, or 13%, to $367 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2010, principally driven by the timing of incentive compensation costs and severance costs associated with headcount reductions. 47 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Adjusted Operating Income Adjusted operating income was $38 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2010 compared with an adjusted operating loss of $56 million in the comparable period of 2009, principally reflecting the improved profitability of our 2010 releases. Year ended December 31, 2009 vs. 2008 Consolidated Results of Operations Our summary consolidated results of operations are presented below for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. Year Ended December 31, Better/(Worse) (in millions, except per share amounts) 2009 2008 $ % Revenues $ 13,257 $ 13,947 $ (690 ) (5 )% Operating income 3,045 2,562 483 19 Adjusted operating income 3,138 3,016 122 4 Net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom 1,678 1,257 421 33 Adjusted net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom 1,646 1,515 131 9 Diluted EPS from continuing operations 2.76 2.01 0.75 37 Adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations $ 2.71 $ 2.42 $ 0.29 12 % See the section entitled Factors Affecting Comparability for a reconciliation of our adjusted measures to our reported results. Revenues Worldwide revenues for the year ended December 31, 2009 decreased $690 million, or 5%, to $13.257 billion. Filmed Entertainment contributed $551 million of the decrease primarily driven by declines in theatrical and home entertainment revenues, partially offset by an increase in television and ancillary revenues. The decrease in feature film revenues reflects fewer films released in 2009 as compared to 2008 and the decrease in home entertainment revenues principally results from the number and mix of titles released in 2009 compared to 2008. Media Networks contributed $152 million of the decrease reflecting declines in advertising and ancillary revenues, partially offset by an increase in affiliate fees. Operating Income Adjusted operating income increased $122 million, or 4%, to $3.138 billion in 2009 driven by a $144 million increase at Filmed Entertainment, partially offset by an $8 million decrease at Media Networks. The increase at Filmed Entertainment principally reflects the success of certain 2009 releases, including Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen, Star Trek and Paranormal Activity, partially offset by fewer distributed films. The decrease at Media Networks principally reflects lower advertising revenues, partially offset by an increase in affiliate revenues. Both segments benefited from lower costs in 2009 as a result of restructurings and other cost savings initiatives. Operating income increased $483 million, or 19%, to $3.045 billion in 2009 reflecting lower restructuring and other charges as discussed in Factors Affecting Comparability. See the section entitled Segment Results of Operations for a more in depth discussion of the revenues, expenses and operating income for each of the Media Networks and Filmed Entertainment segments. Net Earnings from Continuing Operations Attributable to Viacom Adjusted net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom increased $131 million, or 9%, in 2009 reflecting the increase in tax effected adjusted operating income, a decrease in Interest expense, net due to lower 48 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) average debt outstanding, and lower foreign exchange losses and costs associated with our receivables securitization programs, both of which are included in Other items, net. Adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations increased $0.29 per diluted share from $2.42 in 2008 to $2.71 in 2009. Adjusted results exclude the impact of certain items identified as affecting comparability, including a loss on extinguishment of debt in 2009, investment impairments in 2008, and restructuring and other charges and discrete tax benefits in both periods. See the section entitled Factors Affecting Comparability for a reconciliation of our adjusted measures to our reported results. Net earnings from continuing operations attributable to Viacom increased $421 million, or 33%, in 2009. Diluted EPS from continuing operations increased $0.75 per diluted share from $2.01 in 2008 to $2.76 in 2009. Discontinued Operations, Net of Tax The loss from discontinued operations, net of tax was $67 million and $6 million in the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, principally reflecting losses related to Harmonix. Segment Results of Operations Media Networks Year Ended December 31, Better/(Worse) (in millions) 2009 2008 $ % Revenues by Component Advertising $ 4,405 $ 4,722 $ (317 ) (7 )% Affiliate fees 2,901 2,620 281 11 Ancillary 620 736 (116 ) (16 ) Total revenues by component $ 7,926 $ 8,078 $ (152 ) (2 )% Expenses Operating $ 2,689 $ 2,670 $ (19 ) (1 )% Selling, general and administrative 1,844 1,986 142 7 Depreciation and amortization 204 225 21 9 Total expenses $ 4,737 $ 4,881 $ 144 3 % Adjusted Operating Income $ 3,189 $ 3,197 $ (8 ) NM NM Not Meaningful Revenues Worldwide revenues decreased $152 million, or 2%, to $7.926 billion in 2009. Declines in advertising and ancillary revenues were partially offset by an increase in affiliate fees. Domestic revenues decreased to $6.705 billion, a decline of $14 million. International revenues decreased to $1.221 billion, a decline of $138 million, or 10%, including a 5 percentage point negative impact from foreign exchange. Advertising Worldwide advertising revenues decreased $317 million, or 7%, to $4.405 billion in 2009. Domestic advertising revenue decreased 6%, while international advertising revenues decreased 14%, with foreign exchange negatively impacting international growth by 5 percentage points. In 2009, global economic conditions had a negative impact on the advertising market and our revenues, although the advertising market strengthened in the second half of 2009. 49 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Affiliate Fees Worldwide affiliate fees increased $281 million, or 11%, to $2.901 billion in 2009. Domestic affiliate fees increased 12% and international affiliate fees increased 3%, principally due to rate and subscriber growth. International affiliate revenues include 8 percentage points of negative impact from foreign exchange. Ancillary Worldwide ancillary revenues decreased $116 million, or 16%, to $620 million in 2009. The decrease is primarily driven by lower home entertainment and consumer products revenues. Domestic and international ancillary revenues declined 12% and 22%, respectively. International ancillary revenues also included a 2 percentage point negative impact from foreign exchange. Expenses Media Networks segment expenses decreased $144 million, or 3%, to $4.737 billion in 2009. The reduction in total expenses includes lower employee compensation and other cost benefits principally resulting from the actions taken in connection with restructurings and other initiatives. These decreases were partially offset by costs related to our continued investment in programming. Operating Operating expenses increased $19 million, or 1%, to $2.689 billion in 2009. Programming costs increased $60 million, or 3%, primarily reflecting an increase in costs of $139 million, or 6%, due to our continued investment in programming, partially offset by $79 million of savings attributable to programming abandonments taken in connection with our 2008 restructuring. Distribution and other expenses decreased $41 million, or 11%. Selling, General and Administrative SG&A decreased $142 million, or 7%, to $1.844 billion in 2009, principally due to lower employee compensation costs and other cost savings initiatives, principally resulting from the 2008 restructuring action described in the Factors Affecting Comparability section. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization decreased $21 million, or 9%, to $204 million in 2009, due to lower capital lease depreciation expense and lower overall capital spending. Adjusted Operating Income Adjusted operating income decreased $8 million to $3.189 billion in 2009. The decrease principally reflects lower advertising and ancillary revenues, partially offset by higher affiliate revenues and the cost savings from restructurings. 50 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Filmed Entertainment Year Ended December 31, Better/(Worse) (in millions) 2009 2008 $ % Revenues by Component Theatrical $ 1,321 $ 1,714 $ (393 ) (23 )% Home entertainment 2,501 2,724 (223 ) (8 ) Television license fees 1,383 1,333 50 4 Ancillary 277 262 15 6 Total revenues by component $ 5,482 $ 6,033 $ (551 ) (9 )% Expenses Operating $ 4,652 $ 5,344 $ 692 13 % Selling, general & administrative 479 479 Depreciation & amortization 105 108 3 3 Total expenses $ 5,236 $ 5,931 $ 695 12 % Adjusted Operating Income $ 246 $ 102 $ 144 NM NM Not Meaningful Revenues Worldwide revenues decreased $551 million, or 9%, to $5.482 billion in 2009. Declines in theatrical and home entertainment revenues were partially offset by an increase in television and ancillary revenues. Domestic revenues decreased to $2.942 billion, a decline of $300 million, or 9%. International revenues decreased to $2.54 billion, a decline of $251 million, or 9%, including a 5 percentage point negative impact from foreign exchange. Theatrical Worldwide theatrical revenues decreased $393 million, or 23%, to $1.321 billion in 2009, principally driven by a smaller slate of films. During 2009, we released twenty films, including Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen, Star Trek, G.I. Joe: The Rise of Cobra, Paranormal Activity and DreamWorks Animations Monsters vs. Aliens compared to twenty four films released in 2008, which included Indiana Jones and the Kingdom of the Crystal Skull, Marvels Iron Man and DreamWorks Animations Kung Fu Panda and Madagascar 2: Escape to Africa. Domestic theatrical revenues decreased 8%, and international theatrical revenues decreased 36%. Foreign exchange had a 9 percentage point negative impact on international theatrical revenues. Home Entertainment Worldwide home entertainment revenues decreased $223 million, or 8%, to $2.501 billion in 2009. Decreased revenues principally reflect the number and mix of titles released in 2009 versus 2008. Domestic and international home entertainment revenues decreased 12% and 3%, respectively, with a 3 percentage point negative impact from foreign exchange on international revenues. The DVD market continued to be negatively affected by global economic conditions throughout most of 2009, with strengthening seen in the fourth quarter of the calendar year relative to our major release titles. Television License Fees Worldwide television license fees increased $50 million, or 4%, to $1.383 billion in 2009, principally reflecting higher Pay TV fees driven by the number and mix of available titles. Ancillary Ancillary revenues increased $15 million, or 6%, to $277 million in 2009 due to higher digital and merchandising revenues. 51 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Expenses Filmed Entertainment segment expenses decreased $695 million, or 12%, to $5.236 billion in 2009. The reduction in total expenses principally reflects our reduced film slate and lower costs associated with third party distribution agreements. Operating Operating expenses decreased $692 million, or 13%, to $4.652 billion in 2009. Distribution and other expenses decreased $487 million, or 19%, primarily related to the reduced number of theatrical releases, lower home entertainment expenses and cost savings initiatives. Film costs decreased $205 million, or 7%. The decrease was primarily due to lower participation costs associated with third party distribution arrangements, partially offset by higher amortization of certain film costs. Selling, General and Administrative SG&A was substantially flat at $479 million in 2009. The benefits from our cost savings initiatives contributed to containing SG&A costs. Depreciation and Amortization Depreciation and amortization decreased $3 million, or 3%, to $105 million in 2009. Adjusted Operating Income Adjusted operating income increased $144 million to $246 million in 2009. The increase principally reflects the success of certain 2009 releases, including Transformers: Revenge of the Fallen, Star Trek and Paranormal Activity and cost savings from restructurings and other initiatives, partially offset by fewer distributed films. FACTORS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY The consolidated financial statements as of and for the years ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009 and the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008 reflect our results of operations, financial position and cash flows reported in accordance with U.S. GAAP. Results for the aforementioned periods, as discussed in the section entitled Overview, have been affected by certain items identified as affecting comparability. The following tables reconcile our adjusted measures to our reported results for the years ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, and the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. (in millions, except per share amounts) Year EndedSeptember 30, 2011 OperatingIncome Pre tax Earnings fromContinuing Operations* Net Earnings from ContinuingOperationsAttributable to Viacom** Diluted EPS fromContinuing Operations Reported results $ 3,710 $ 3,245 $ 2,146 $ 3.61 Factors Affecting Comparability: Restructuring 144 144 99 0.17 Extinguishment of debt 87 54 0.09 Discrete tax benefits (52 ) (0.09 ) Adjusted results $ 3,854 $ 3,476 $ 2,247 $ 3.78 52 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) (in millions, except per share amounts) Year EndedSeptember 30, 2010 OperatingIncome Pre tax Earnings fromContinuing Operations* Net Earningsfrom ContinuingOperationsAttributable to Viacom** Diluted EPS fromContinuing Operations Reported results $ 3,348 $ 2,838 $ 1,899 $ 3.11 Factors Affecting Comparability: Asset impairment 60 60 19 0.03 Discrete tax benefits (77 ) (0.12 ) Adjusted results $ 3,408 $ 2,898 $ 1,841 $ 3.02 (in millions, except per share amounts) Nine Months EndedSeptember 30, 2010 OperatingIncome Pre tax Earnings fromContinuing Operations* Net Earningsfrom ContinuingOperationsAttributable to Viacom** Diluted EPS fromContinuing Operations Reported results $ 2,207 $ 1,812 $ 1,175 $ 1.92 Factors Affecting Comparability: Discrete tax benefits (27 ) (0.04 ) Adjusted results $ 2,207 $ 1,812 $ 1,148 $ 1.88 (in millions, except per share amounts) Nine Months EndedSeptember 30, 2009 OperatingIncome Pre tax Earnings fromContinuing Operations* Net Earningsfrom ContinuingOperationsAttributable to Viacom** Diluted EPS fromContinuing Operations Reported results $ 1,904 $ 1,391 $ 954 $ 1.57 Factors Affecting Comparability: Restructuring 33 33 21 0.03 Extinguishment of debt 84 52 0.09 Discrete tax benefits (74 ) (0.12 ) Adjusted results $ 1,937 $ 1,508 $ 953 $ 1.57 (in millions, except per share amounts) Year EndedDecember 31, 2009 OperatingIncome Pre tax Earnings fromContinuing Operations* Net Earningsfrom ContinuingOperationsAttributable to Viacom** Diluted EPS fromContinuing Operations Reported results $ 3,045 $ 2,417 $ 1,678 $ 2.76 Factors Affecting Comparability: Restructuring 33 33 21 0.03 Asset impairment 60 60 19 0.03 Extinguishment of debt 84 52 0.09 Discrete tax benefits (124 ) (0.20 ) Adjusted results $ 3,138 $ 2,594 $ 1,646 $ 2.71 53 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) (in millions, except per share amounts) Year EndedDecember 31, 2008 OperatingIncome Pre tax Earnings fromContinuing Operations* Net Earningsfrom ContinuingOperationsAttributable to Viacom** Diluted EPS fromContinuingOperations Reported results $ 2,562 $ 1,894 $ 1,257 $ 2.01 Factors Affecting Comparability: Restructuring and other charges 454 454 286 0.46 Discrete tax benefits (55 ) (0.09 ) Impairment of investments 27 27 0.04 Adjusted results $ 3,016 $ 2,375 $ 1,515 $ 2.42 * Pre tax earnings from continuing operations represent earnings before provisions for income taxes. ** The tax impact has been calculated using the rates applicable to the adjustments presented. Restructuring Restructuring charges are reflected within Restructuring in the Consolidated Statement of Earnings. 2011 In the quarter ended September 30, 2011, we reviewed our cost structure and took certain actions to combine and increase the efficiency of various functions across the organization, resulting in a restructuring charge of $130 million. The restructuring plan includes workforce reductions and other exit activities across the Companys operations, which are well under way. As a result of these initiatives we expect annual savings of approximately $140 million, the benefit of which will phase in through fiscal year 2013. We expect that the restructuring plan will be substantially completed by September 30, 2012 and involve cash payments of approximately $120 million, a majority of which is expected to be paid in fiscal 2012. In the quarter ended June 30, 2011, the Media Networks segment incurred employee separation costs, including accelerated vesting of certain equity based compensation awards, of $14 million. The following table presents the components of the 2011 restructuring charges by segment: 2011 Restructuring Charges (in millions) MediaNetworks FilmedEntertainment Total Severance charges $ 84 $ 39 $ 123 Lease termination and other exit costs 7 14 21 September 30, 2011 $ 91 $ 53 $ 144 2009 In 2009, we took actions resulting in severance charges of $16 million in the Media Networks segment and $17 million in the Filmed Entertainment segment. 2008 In 2008, to better align our organization and cost structure with changing economic conditions, we undertook a strategic review of our businesses which resulted in $454 million of charges. In addition to broad adverse 54 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) economic conditions, the strategic review considered the emergence of sustained softness in the advertising market and ratings issues at certain channels in the Media Networks segment, and the Filmed Entertainment segments decision to reduce its future film slate. As a result of these initiatives we saved approximately $200 million in the year ended December 31, 2009. Approximately half of the savings from the restructuring charges were principally comprised of workforce reductions and were realized via lower compensation costs primarily included as a component of Selling, general and administrative expenses in our Consolidated Statement of Earnings. The following table presents the components of the 2008 restructuring and other charges by segment: 2008 Restructuring and Other Charges (in millions) MediaNetworks FilmedEntertainment Corporate Total Severance and lease termination costs $ 71 $ 29 $ 3 $ 103 Programming and film inventory 286 19 305 Asset impairments and other 32 14 46 December 31, 2008 $ 389 $ 62 $ 3 $ 454 See Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information regarding these actions. Extinguishment of Debt 2011 In 2011, we conducted a cash tender offer to repurchase a portion of the $1.5 billion aggregate principal of our 6.25% Senior Notes due 2016. Our repurchase of $582 million of principal at a purchase price of $1,153.50 per $1,000 pursuant to the tender offer resulted in a pre tax extinguishment loss of $87 million. 2009 In 2009, we conducted a cash tender offer to repurchase a substantial portion of the $1.5 billion aggregate principal of our 5.75% Senior Notes due 2011. Our repurchase of $1.307 billion of principal at a purchase price of $1,061.25 per $1,000 pursuant to the tender offer resulted in a pre tax extinguishment loss of $84 million. Asset Impairment 2009 In 2009, we recorded a $60 million non cash impairment charge in the Media Networks segment related to certain broadcast licenses held by a 32% owned consolidated entity. The impact to Net earnings attributable to Viacom was a reduction of $19 million, with the remaining $41 million allocated to the noncontrolling interest. 2008 In 2008, we recognized non cash investment impairment charges of $27 million. Discrete Tax Items Our effective income tax rate was 34.3% and 35.9% for the year ended September 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively, excluding the impact of discrete items. In 2011, discrete tax benefits of $52 million, taken together with the impact of restructuring charges and the 2011 loss on extinguishment of debt, contributed 1.6 percentage points of net tax benefit, which reconciles to the reported rate of 32.7%. In 2010, discrete tax benefits of $77 million, taken together with the impact of asset impairment, contributed 2.0 percentage points of tax benefit, which reconciles to the reported effective tax rate of 33.9%. The discrete tax benefits in both periods were principally due to reserve releases resulting from effectively settled audits. The benefit in 2010 also reflects the disposition of certain assets. 55 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Our effective income tax rate was 36.1% for the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and 2009, excluding the impact of discrete items. In 2010, discrete tax benefits of $27 million contributed 1.5 percentage points of tax benefit, which reconciles to the reported rate of 34.6%. In 2009, discrete tax benefits of $74 million contributed 5.4 percentage points of tax benefit, which reconciles to the reported rate of 30.7%. The benefit in the nine months ended September 30, 2010 principally reflects tax benefits from the disposition of certain assets. The benefit in the nine months ended September 30, 2009 principally reflects reserve releases resulting from effectively settled audits and the recognition of certain previously unrecognized capital losses from international operations. Our effective income tax rate was 35.9% and 35.5% in the year ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, excluding the impact of discrete items. In 2009, discrete tax benefits of $124 million, taken together with the impact of restructuring charges, asset impairment and the 2009 loss on extinguishment of debt, contributed 4.4 percentage points of tax benefit, which reconciles to the reported rate of 31.5%. In 2008, discrete tax benefits of $55 million, taken together with the impact of restructuring and other charges, contributed 2.8 percentage points of tax benefit, which reconciles to the reported rate 32.7%. The discrete taxes in each period were principally due to reserve releases resulting from effectively settled audits. The benefit in 2009 also reflects the recognition of certain previously unrecognized capital losses from international operations. LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Liquidity Sources and Uses of Cash Our primary source of liquidity is cash provided through the operations of our businesses. Our principal uses of cash in operations include the creation of new programming and film content, acquisitions of third party content, and interest and tax payments. We also use cash for capital expenditures, acquisitions of businesses, quarterly cash dividends and discretionary share repurchases under our stock repurchase program, as deemed appropriate. Our cash flows from operations, together with our $2.0 billion revolving credit facility, provide us with adequate resources to fund our anticipated ongoing cash requirements. We have and may continue to access external financing from time to time depending on our cash requirements, assessments of current and anticipated market conditions and after tax cost of capital. Our access to capital markets can be impacted by factors outside our control, including economic conditions; however, we believe that our strong cash flows and balance sheet, our credit facility and our credit rating will provide us with adequate access to funding given our expected cash needs. Any new borrowing cost would be affected by market conditions and short and long term debt ratings assigned by independent rating agencies. Cash Flows Cash and cash equivalents increased by $184 million in the year ended September 30, 2011 and $539 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2010, and decreased $494 million in the year ended December 31, 2009. The net change in cash and cash equivalents was attributable to the following: Cash Flows (in millions) Year EndedSeptember 30, Nine Months EndedSeptember 30, Year EndedDecember 31, 2011 2010 2010 2009 2009 2008 Cash provided by operations $ 2,644 $ 1,566 $ 1,147 $ 732 $ 1,151 $ 2,036 Net cash flow used in investing activities (227) (325) (168) (117) (274) (571) Net cash flow used in financing activities (2,227) (655) (436) (1,169) (1,388) (1,555) Effect of exchange rates on cash and cash equivalents (6) 2 (4) 11 17 (38) Net change in cash and cash equivalents $ 184 $ 588 $ 539 $ (543) $ (494) $ (128) 56 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Operating Activities Cash provided by operations was $2.644 billion for the year ended September 30, 2011, an increase of $1.078 billion compared with the same period in 2010. The increase principally reflects the comparison against a $775 million reduction in securitized receivables in 2010 and higher income, partially offset by increased production spending at the Filmed Entertainment segment, as well as the payment of the premium on our 2011 debt extinguishment. In addition, cash used in discontinued operations was $21 million in fiscal 2011 as compared with cash provided by discontinued operations of $121 million in the prior year, principally due to a full year of activity in the prior year as compared with three months in the current year. The Media Networks segment consistently generates a significant percentage of our cash flow from operating activities. Advertising time is generally purchased by large media buying agencies and our affiliate fees are principally earned from cable and satellite television operators. The Filmed Entertainment segments operational results and ability to generate cash flow from operations substantially depend on the number and timing of films in development and production, the level and timing of print and advertising costs and the publics response to our theatrical film and home entertainment releases. Our cash flow from operations tends to fluctuate seasonally as a result of timing of cash payments and collections, typically being highest in the first quarter of our fiscal year. Cash provided by operations was $1.147 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, an increase of $415 million compared with the nine months ended September 30, 2009. The increase principally reflects the increase in earnings, lower pension contributions, lower print and advertising expenses and the comparison against a $175 million reduction in securitized receivables and an $84 million payment of a premium on debt extinguishment in 2009, partially offset by higher income tax payments. Cash tax payments increased during the period primarily as a result of prior year tax benefits associated with our 2008 restructuring and other charges, the expiration at December 31, 2009 of certain Federal income tax benefits related to programming and film investment and increased pre tax earnings. Cash provided by operations was $1.151 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, a decrease of $885 million compared with 2008. The decrease was primarily due to a $950 million reduction in securitized receivables, increased pension contributions, severance payments and payment of a premium on our 2009 debt extinguishment, partially offset by lower payments for production spending, income taxes and interest. Investing Activities Cash used in investing activities was $227 million for the year ended September 30, 2011, compared with $325 million in the same period in 2010. The decrease is principally due to lower spending on acquisitions and investments. In fiscal year 2011, cash used in investing activities included $72 million related to acquisitions and investments principally reflecting an investment in a European television programmer. In the prior year, the $154 million related to acquisitions and investments principally related to the acquisition of Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles and investment in EPIX. In general, our segments require relatively low levels of capital expenditures in relation to our annual cash flow from operations which contributes to our ability to generate cash flow for future investment in our content and business operations, which we expect to be able to maintain over time. Cash used in investing activities was $168 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, compared with $117 million in the nine months ended September 30, 2009. The increase is primarily due to increased spending on capital expenditures and investments, principally related to Viacom 18 and EPIX, partially offset by cash acquired from DW Funding. 57 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Cash used in investing activities was $274 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared with $571 million in 2008. The decrease was primarily due to lower spending on acquisitions and investments in 2009, as well as lower spending on capital expenditures. In 2009, cash used in investing activities included $133 million related to acquisitions and investments and $139 million in capital expenditures. In 2008, cash used in investing activities included $283 million of capital expenditures, principally related to improvements to certain new and existing facilities (including approximately $100 million related to New York real estate facilities), $146 million related to acquisitions and investments and a $150 million earn out payment related to our 2006 acquisition of Harmonix, which is reflected in discontinued operations. Financing Activities Cash used in financing activities was $2.227 billion for the year ended September 30, 2011, compared with $655 million in the same period in 2010. The net outflow was primarily driven by share repurchases and dividends. During the year ended September 30, 2011, we repurchased 55.7 million shares for an aggregate price of $2.5 billion, of which $2.45 billion of repurchases had settled as of September 30, 2011, and paid $417 million in dividends. Our commercial paper borrowings of $423 million, taken together with the net impact of our issuance of $1.0 billion of senior notes, repurchase of $582 million principal amount of our 6.25% Senior Notes due 2016 and repayment of the remaining $193 million principal amount of our 5.75% Senior Notes due on April 30, 2011, contributed a partially offsetting inflow. In the prior year, cash used in financing activities was driven by the repayment of long term debt and commercial paper borrowings. Cash used in financing activities was $436 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2010, compared with $1.169 billion for the nine months ended September 30, 2009. The net outflow in 2010 was primarily driven by the repayment of DW Funding debt and the dividends paid. The net outflow in 2009 was primarily driven by $750 million in payments related to the maturity of our floating rate senior notes which came due in the second quarter of 2009 and a decrease in amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility. In 2009, we issued a total of $1.4 billion of senior notes and used the proceeds to repurchase $1.307 billion outstanding principal of our 5.75% Senior Notes due 2011. Cash used in financing activities was $1.388 billion for the year ended December 31, 2009. The net outflow was primarily driven by the maturity of our $750 million floating rate senior notes and the decrease in amounts outstanding under our revolving credit facility. We did not repurchase any shares under our stock repurchase program during 2009. Cash used in financing activities was $1.555 billion for the year ended December 31, 2008. The net outflow was principally driven by $1.266 billion of share repurchases under our stock repurchase program and net payments of $280 million on the outstanding balances related to our credit facility, commercial paper and other debt obligations. 58 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Capital Resources Capital Structure and Debt At September 30, 2011, total debt was $7.365 billion, an increase of $613 million from $6.752 billion at September 30, 2010. The increase in debt reflects the impact of new issuances and commercial paper borrowings, partially offset by repayments. Debt (in millions) September 30, 2011 2010 Senior notes and debentures $ 6,536 $ 6,320 Commercial paper 423 Capital leases and other obligations 406 432 Total debt $ 7,365 $ 6,752 Senior Notes and Debentures During the year, we took advantage of favorable market conditions to lengthen the maturities and reduce the weighted average borrowing cost of our public debt. We issued a total of $1.0 billion of senior notes with maturities of six and ten years. In February, we issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 4.5% Senior Notes due 2021 at a price equal to 98.320% of the principal amount. We used the net proceeds from this offering of $488 million to conduct a cash tender offer to repurchase a portion of the $1.5 billion aggregate principal of our 6.25% Senior Notes due 2016 at a weighted average purchase price of $1,153.50 per $1,000 of principal. Our repurchase of $582 million of principal pursuant to the tender offer resulted in a pre tax extinguishment loss of $87 million. In March, we issued $500 million aggregate principal amount of 3.5% Senior Notes due 2017 at a price equal to 99.139% of the principal amount. We used the net proceeds from this offering for general corporate purposes, including the repayment of the remaining $193 million principal amount of our 5.75% Senior Notes due on April 30, 2011 and the repurchase of shares under our stock repurchase program. Our outstanding senior notes and debentures provide for certain covenant packages typical for an investment grade company. There is one acceleration trigger for certain of the senior notes and debentures in the event of a change in control under certain specified circumstances coupled with ratings downgrades due to the change in control. At September 30, 2011 and 2010, the total unamortized net discount related to the fixed rate senior notes and debentures was $32 million and $23 million, respectively. We anticipate that future debt maturities will be funded with cash and cash equivalents, cash flows from operating activities and future access to capital markets, including our revolving credit facility. There can be no assurance that we will be able to access capital markets on terms and conditions that will be acceptable to us. Credit Facility On October 8, 2010, we terminated our $3.25 billion revolving facility due December 2010 and entered into a $2.0 billion revolving credit facility, which matures in October 2013. There were no amounts outstanding under our credit facility at September 30, 2011 and 2010. The primary purpose of the facility is to fund short term liquidity needs and to support commercial paper borrowings. Borrowing rates under the facility are determined at the time of each borrowing and are based generally on LIBOR plus a margin ranging from 0.75% to 2.0% based on our public debt rating. A facility fee is paid based on the total amount of the commitments. The facility contains typical covenants for an investment grade company and one financial covenant that requires our interest coverage, calculated as operating income before depreciation and amortization divided by interest expense (defined by the credit agreement), for the most recent four consecutive fiscal quarters, to be at least 3.0x, which we met at September 30, 2011. 59 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Commercial Paper At September 30, 2011, the outstanding commercial paper of $423 million had a weighted average interest rate of 0.41% and a weighted average maturity of less than 30 days. There were no amounts outstanding as of September 30, 2010. Current Portion of Debt Amounts classified in the current portion of debt consist of the portion of capital leases payable in the next twelve months. Securitization Facilities In April 2010, we terminated our accounts receivable securitization programs because we had access to sufficient sources of liquidity at better terms. Film Financing Arrangements Historically we have entered into film financing arrangements that involve the sale of a partial copyright interest in a film to third party investors. Since the investors typically have the risks and rewards of ownership proportionate to their ownership in the film, we generally record the amounts received for the sale of copyright interest as a reduction of the cost of the film and related cash flows are reflected in net cash flow from operating activities. We also have agreements with third parties, including other studios, to co finance certain of our motion pictures. Stock Repurchase Program On June 9, 2010, our Board of Directors authorized an increase in the funds available to purchase Class B common stock under the Companys stock repurchase program to $4.0 billion from the existing remaining capacity of $1.275 billion. During the year ended September 30, 2011, we repurchased 55.7 million shares under the program for an aggregate price of $2.5 billion. From October 1, 2011 through November 9, 2011, we repurchased an additional 6.5 million shares for an aggregate price of $276 million. On November 9, 2011, our Board of Directors authorized an increase in the funds available under the program to $10.0 billion, leaving $7.2 billion of remaining capacity. There were no repurchases during the nine months ended September 30, 2010 and year ended December 31, 2009. Commitments and Contingencies Our commitments primarily consist of programming and talent commitments, operating and capital lease arrangements, and purchase obligations for goods and services. These arrangements result from our normal course of business and represent obligations that may be payable over several years. Additionally, we are subject to a redeemable put option, payable in a foreign currency, with respect to an international subsidiary, which is classified as Redeemable noncontrolling interest in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The put option expires in January 2016. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information related to the redeemable noncontrolling interest. In the course of our business, the Company both provides and receives the benefit of indemnities that are intended to allocate certain risks associated with business transactions. Similarly, we may remain contingently liable for various obligations of a business that has been divested in the event that a third party does not live up to its obligations under an indemnification agreement. Further, we may from time to time agree to pay additional consideration to the sellers of a business depending on the performance of the business during a period following the closing. 60 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Guarantees Leases We have certain indemnification obligations with respect to leases associated with the previously discontinued operations of Famous Players and Blockbuster. In addition, we have certain indemnities provided by the acquirer of Famous Players. At September 30, 2011, these lease commitments, substantially all of which relate to Famous Players, amounted to approximately $600 million. The amount of lease commitments varies over time depending on expiration or termination of individual underlying leases, or of the related indemnification obligation, and foreign exchange rates, among other things. We may also have exposure for certain other expenses related to the leases, such as property taxes and common area maintenance. We have recorded a liability of approximately $200 million with respect to such obligations. Based on our consideration of financial information available to us, the lessees historical performance in meeting their lease obligations and the underlying economic factors impacting the lessees business models, we believe our accrual is sufficient to meet any future obligations. Other We have indemnification obligations with respect to letters of credit and surety bonds primarily used as security against non performance in the normal course of business. The outstanding letters of credit and surety bonds at September 30, 2011 were $60 million and are not recorded on the balance sheet. The Company and its venture partner each have a commitment to guarantee up to $55 million of bank debt of Viacom 18. There were no borrowings outstanding at September 30, 2011 subject to this guarantee. We also have a remaining funding commitment of $15 million as of September 30, 2011. Legal Matters Litigation is inherently uncertain and always difficult to predict. However, based on our understanding and evaluation of the relevant facts and circumstances, we believe that the legal matters described below and other litigation to which we are a party are not likely, in the aggregate, to have a material adverse effect on our results of continuing operations, financial position or operating cash flows. In March 2007, we filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York against Google Inc. (Google) and its wholly owned subsidiary YouTube, alleging that Google and YouTube violated and continue to violate the Companys copyrights. We are seeking both damages and injunctive relief. In March 2010, we and Google filed motions for summary judgment, and in June 2010, Googles motion was granted. The District Court decision has been appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and oral argument was heard in October 2011. We believe we have a meritorious appeal. In September 2007, Brantley, et al. v. NBC Universal, Inc., et al., was filed in the United States District Court for the Central District of California against us and several other program content providers on behalf of a purported nationwide class of cable and satellite subscribers. The plaintiffs also sued several major cable and satellite program distributors. Plaintiffs allege that separate contracts between the program providers and the cable and satellite operator defendants providing for the sale of programming in specific tiers each unreasonably restrain trade in a variety of markets in violation of the Sherman Act. In June 2011, the Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed the District Courts decision dismissing, with prejudice, the plaintiffs third amended complaint. The plaintiffs filed a petition for a rehearing of the case by the full Court of Appeals and oral argument was heard in October 2011. On October 31, 2011, the Court of Appeals withdrew its decision in light of the subsequent death of one of the judges on the panel. Another judge of the court will replace the deceased judge. In light of this development, the motion for a rehearing before the entire court was dismissed as moot. We believe the plaintiffs position in this litigation is without merit and intend to continue to vigorously defend this lawsuit. 61 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Our 2006 acquisition agreement with Harmonix Music Systems, Inc. (Harmonix), a developer of music based games, including the Rock Band franchise, provided that to the extent financial results exceeded specific contractual targets against a defined gross profit metric for the calendar years 2007 and 2008, former Harmonix shareholders would be eligible for incremental earn out payments. In 2008, we paid $150 million, subject to adjustment, under this earn out agreement related to 2007 performance. The final amount of the earn out related to 2007 and 2008 performance has not yet been determined and a private dispute resolution process before an accounting expert is expected to conclude in the first quarter of fiscal year 2012. Our position in the dispute resolution process is that approximately $130 million of the earlier $150 million payment was not earned and that no payment is owed with respect to 2008 performance. The shareholder representative has claimed that we owe an additional $700 million with respect to 2007 and 2008 performance. We strongly disagree with the position of the shareholder representative and have filed a lawsuit in the Court of Chancery for the State of Delaware against certain of the former Harmonix shareholders seeking a refund of a substantial portion of the $150 million payment. Accordingly, we have not recorded a reserve as of September 30, 2011. In December 2010, the shareholder representative filed a lawsuit in the Court of Chancery for the State of Delaware seeking the release of approximately $13 million, which is being held in escrow to secure the shareholder representatives indemnification obligations to us under the acquisition agreement and damages in respect of certain other claims. In May 2011, we filed a motion to dismiss the portion of the shareholder representatives amended complaint that relates to the other claims and a decision is pending. We believe the shareholder representatives position in this proceeding is without merit and are vigorously defending this lawsuit. Contractual Obligations Our contractual obligations include amounts reflected on our balance sheet, as well as off balance sheet arrangements. At September 30, 2011, our significant contractual obligations, including payments due for the next five fiscal years and thereafter, were as follows: Contractual Obligations (in millions) Total Less than1 year 1 3 years 3 5 years After 5years Off balance Sheet Arrangements Programming and talent commitments (1) $ 1,228 $ 439 $ 483 $ 234 $ 72 Operating leases (2) 975 199 337 197 242 Purchase obligations (3) 835 430 288 98 19 On Balance Sheet Arrangements Capital lease obligations (4) 220 32 53 51 84 Debt 7,219 566 685 1,168 4,800 Interest payments 6,788 384 768 681 4,955 Other long term obligations (5) $ 2,954 $ 1,669 $ 913 $ 347 $ 25 (1) Programming and talent commitments include $1.011 billion relating to media networks programming and $217 million for talent contracts. (2) Includes long term non cancelable operating lease commitments for office space, equipment, transponders, studio facilities and vehicles. (3) Purchase obligations include agreements to purchase goods or services that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including open purchase orders. (4) Includes capital leases for satellite transponders. (5) Other long term obligations principally consist of participations, residuals and programming obligations for content that is available for airing. Note: Not included in the amounts above are payments which may result from our defined benefit pension plans of $441 million, unrecognized tax benefits of $274 million, including interest and penalties, $15 million of funding commitments to joint ventures, interest payments to be made under our credit facility, $152 million of redeemable noncontrolling interest and lease guarantees of approximately $600 million. The amount and timing of payments with respect to these items are subject to a number of uncertainties such that we are unable to make sufficiently reliable estimations of future payments. We do expect to make contributions of approximately $45 million in fiscal 2012 to our pension plans. 62 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) MARKET RISK We are exposed to market risk related to foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. We use or expect to use derivative financial instruments to modify exposure to risks from fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. In accordance with our policy, we do not use derivative instruments unless there is an underlying exposure, and we do not hold or enter into financial instruments for speculative trading purposes. Foreign Exchange Risk We conduct business in various countries outside the United States, resulting in exposure to movements in foreign exchange rates when translating from the foreign local currency to the U.S. Dollar. In order to economically hedge anticipated cash flows and foreign currency balances in such currencies as the British Pound, the Australian Dollar, the Euro, the Japanese Yen, and the Canadian Dollar, foreign currency forward contracts are used. The change in fair value of non designated contracts is included in current period earnings as part of Other items, net. Additionally, from time to time we enter into forward contracts to hedge future production costs or programming obligations or hedge the foreign currency exposure of a net investment in a foreign operation. We manage the use of foreign exchange derivatives centrally. The notional value of all foreign exchange contracts was $89 million and $150 million at September 30, 2011 and 2010, respectively. In 2011, $5 million related to net investments in foreign operations, $7 million related to expected foreign currency net cash flows and $77 million related to programming obligations. In 2010, $94 million related to net investments in foreign operations, $13 million related to expected foreign currency net cash flows and $43 million related to programming obligations. Interest Rate Risk A portion of our interest expense is exposed to movements in short term rates. Also, interest expense for future long term debt issues is exposed to movements in long term rates. Interest rate hedges may be used to modify both of these exposures. At September 30, 2011, the notional value of all interest rate hedges was $500 million. There were no interest rate hedges outstanding at September 30, 2010. Since the majority of our debt is fixed rate, we do not expect that a 1% increase or decrease in the level of interest rates would have a material impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements. Viacom has issued senior notes and debentures that, at September 30, 2011, had an outstanding balance of $6.5 billion and an estimated fair value of $7.3 billion. A 1% increase or decrease in the level of interest rates, respectively, would decrease or increase the fair value of the senior notes and debentures by approximately $570 million and $670 million. Credit Risk We continually monitor our positions with, and credit quality of, our customers and the financial institutions which are counterparties to our financial instrument agreements. We are exposed to credit loss in the event of nonpayment by our customers and nonperformance by the counterparties to our financial instrument agreements. However, we do not anticipate nonperformance by the counterparties to our financial instrument agreements and we believe our allowance for doubtful accounts is sufficient to cover any anticipated nonpayment by our customers. 63 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The preparation of our financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. On an ongoing basis, we evaluate our estimates, which are based on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. The result of these evaluations forms the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities and the reported amount of expenses that are not readily apparent from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions. An appreciation of our critical accounting policies, those that are considered by management to require significant judgment and use of estimates and that could have a significant impact on our financial statements, is necessary to understand our financial results. Unless otherwise noted, we applied our critical accounting policies and estimation methods consistently in all material respects and for all periods presented, and have discussed such policies with our Audit Committee. Film Accounting Revenue Recognition Revenue we earn in connection with the exhibition of feature films by our Filmed Entertainment segment is recognized in accordance with the accounting guidance for producers or distributors of films. Our Filmed Entertainment segment principally earns revenue from the exhibition of feature film content based upon theatrical exhibition, home entertainment and various television markets (e.g., network, pay, syndication, basic cable). We recognize revenue from theatrical distribution of motion pictures upon exhibition. We recognize revenue from home entertainment product sales, net of anticipated returns, including rebates and other incentives, upon the later of delivery or the date that these products are made widely available for sale by retailers. We recognize revenue from the licensing of feature films and original programming for exhibition in television markets upon availability for airing by the licensee. We recognize revenue for video on demand and similar pay per view arrangements as the feature films are exhibited based on end customer purchases as reported by the distributor. Original Production and Film Costs We capitalize original production, including original programming and feature film costs, on a title specific basis, as Inventory, net in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. We use an individual forecast computation method to amortize the costs over the applicable titles life cycle based upon the ratio of current period to estimated remaining total gross revenues (ultimate revenues) for each title. We expense advertising costs as they are incurred and expense manufacturing costs, such as DVD manufacturing costs, on a unit specific basis when we recognize the related revenue. Our estimate of ultimate revenues for feature films includes revenues from all sources that are estimated to be earned within ten years from the date of a films initial theatrical release. For acquired film libraries, our estimate of ultimate revenues is for a period within 20 years from the date of acquisition. Prior to the release of a feature film and throughout its life, we estimate the ultimate revenues based on the historical performance of similar content, as well as incorporating factors of the content itself, including, but not limited to, the expected number of theaters and markets in which the original content will be released, the genre of the original content and the past box office performance of the lead actors and actresses. We believe the most sensitive factor affecting our estimate of ultimate revenues for films intended for theatrical release is domestic theatrical exhibition, as subsequent markets have historically exhibited a high correlation to domestic theatrical performance. Upon a films release and determination of domestic theatrical performance, our estimates of revenues from succeeding windows and markets are revised based on historical relationships and an analysis of current market trends. The 64 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) most sensitive factor affecting our estimates for films subsequent to their initial release is the extent of home entertainment sales achieved. In addition to theatrical performance, home entertainment sales vary based on a variety of factors including demand for our titles, the volume and quality of competing home entertainment products, marketing and promotional strategies, as well as economic conditions. For original programming, capitalized program costs are amortized over the projected useful life of the programming, depending on genre and historical experience, beginning with the month of initial exhibition. The most sensitive factor affecting ultimate revenues is the programs rating. Program ratings, which are an indication of audience acceptance, directly impact the level of advertising revenues we will be able to generate during the airing of the programming. Poor ratings may result in abandonment of a program, which would require the immediate write off of any unamortized production costs. The estimate of ultimate revenues impacts the timing of original production cost amortization. Upon a films initial release we update our estimate of ultimate revenues based on expected future and actual results. We also review and revise estimates of ultimate revenue and participation costs as of each reporting date to reflect the most current available information. If estimates for a film are revised, the difference between amortization expense determined using the new estimate and any amounts previously expensed during that fiscal year are charged or credited to our Consolidated Statements of Earnings in the quarter in which the estimates are revised. If we believe that the release of our content will not be or has not been favorably received, then we would assess whether the fair value of such content is less than the unamortized portion of its capitalized costs and, if need be, recognize an impairment charge for the amount by which the unamortized capitalized costs exceed the fair value. We utilize the individual film forecast computation method (adjusted to incorporate revenue and related costs, including future exploitation costs, if any, expected to occur in periods beyond 10 years from the date of the films initial release) to develop the cash flows which are subsequently discounted to compute the fair value of a film at each reporting period. The discount rate utilized takes into account the time value of money as well as a risk premium. The risk premium reflects the uncertainties of realizing the expected cash flows of a film title which is impacted by a film titles position within its product life cycle. Acquired Programming Rights We report an asset and liability for the rights acquired and obligations incurred at the commencement of the licensing period when the cost of the programming is known or reasonably determinable, the program material has been accepted and the programming is available for airing. We record the transaction using the gross liability provision. The asset is amortized to operating expenses over the license period or projected useful life of the programming, if shorter, commencing upon availability. Determining factors used in estimating the useful life of programming includes the expected number of future airings, which may differ from the contracted number of airings, the length of the license period and expected future revenues to be generated from the programming. The cost basis of acquired programming is the capitalized cost of each program and is equal to the cost of the programming pursuant to the license agreement less the cumulative amortization recorded for the program. Capitalized costs of rights to program materials are reported in our Consolidated Balance Sheets at the lower of unamortized cost or estimated net realizable value. We evaluate net realizable value of acquired rights programming quarterly on a daypart basis. A daypart is defined as an aggregation of programs broadcast during a particular time of day or an aggregation of programs of a similar type. We aggregate similar programming based on the specific demographic targeted by each respective program service. Net realizable value is determined by estimating advertising revenues to be derived from the future airing of the programming within the daypart as well as an allocation of affiliate fee revenue to programming. An impairment charge may be necessary if our estimates of future cash flows of similar programming are insufficient or if programming is abandoned. 65 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Revenue Recognition Gross versus Net Revenue Recognition We earn and recognize revenues where we act as distributor on behalf of third parties. In such cases, determining whether revenue should be reported on a gross or net basis is based on managements assessment of whether we act as the principal or agent in the transaction. To the extent we act as the principal in a transaction, we report revenues on a gross basis. Determining whether we act as principal or agent in a transaction involves judgment and is based on an evaluation of whether we have the substantial risks and rewards of ownership under the terms of an arrangement. Our most significant distribution arrangements are in connection with certain exclusive distribution rights to and home video fulfillment services for the animated feature films produced by DreamWorks Animation, the distribution agreement with CBS and our continuing distribution relationship with Marvel for the films we theatrically distributed. Under the terms of these agreements, we generally are responsible for all out of pocket costs, primarily comprised of distribution and marketing costs. For the provision of distribution services, we generally retain a fee based upon a percentage of gross receipts and recover expended distribution and marketing costs on a title by title basis prior to any participation payments to the contracting parties of the films, except as pertains to certain contractually agreed upon advance payments, if applicable. As primary obligor, revenue and related distribution and marketing costs for these arrangements are presented on a gross basis. Sales Returns, Allowances and Uncollectible Accounts In accordance with the accounting guidance related to revenue recognition when a right of return exists, revenue allowances are recorded to adjust amounts originally invoiced to the estimated net realizable value of a particular product. Upon the sale of home entertainment products to wholesalers and retailers, we record a reduction of revenue for the impact of estimated future returns, rebates and other incentives (estimated returns). In determining estimated returns, we consider numerous sources of qualitative and quantitative evidence including forecasted sales data, customers rights of return, units shipped and units remaining at retail, historical return rates for similar product, current economic trends, competitive environment, promotions and sales strategies. Forecasted sales data is determined by comparing a particular release to product that has similar characteristics where applicable, such as franchise, genre, box office levels and release patterns, using regression analysis, decay rates and other tools. Based on the results of this analysis and the sales strategies to be used for the release, we reserve an appropriate percentage of each dollar of product revenue on a title taking into consideration the qualitative and quantitative factors described above. Forecasted sales data is reviewed and updated throughout each quarter, and, with respect to home entertainment product, is consistent with the projections of ultimate revenues used in applying the individual forecast computation method to amortize our film costs. Accordingly, a change in forecasted sales affects both the revenue allowance and related expenses. Actual sell through data is reviewed as it becomes available against the forecasted sales data to ensure that estimates continue to be consistent with actual sales performance. Our estimate of future returns affects reported revenue and operating income. If we underestimate the impact of future returns in a particular period, then we may record less revenue and related expenses in later periods when returns exceed the estimated amounts. If we overestimate the impact of future returns in a particular period, then we may record additional revenue and related expenses in later periods when returns are less than estimated. An incremental change of 1% in our estimated sales returns rate (i.e., provisions for returns divided by gross sales of related product) for home entertainment products would have a $27 million impact on our total revenue for the year ended September 30, 2011. This revenue impact would be partially offset by a corresponding impact on related expenses depending on the margin associated with a specific film and other factors. In computing our sales returns rate, sales include home entertainment revenues of our Filmed Entertainment and Media Networks segments. Home entertainment revenues of our Media Networks segment are included within Media Networks ancillary revenues. 66 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) We also continually evaluate accounts receivable and establish judgments as to their ultimate collectability. Judgments and estimates involved include an analysis of specific risks on a customer by customer basis for larger accounts and an analysis of actual historical write off experience in conjunction with the length of time the receivables are past due. Using this information, management reserves an amount that is estimated to be uncollectible. An incremental change of 1% in our allowance for uncollectible accounts relative to our trade accounts receivables would have a $21 million impact on our operating results for the year ended September 30, 2011. Provision for Income Taxes As a global entertainment content company, we are subject to income taxes in the United States and foreign jurisdictions where we have operations. Significant judgment is required in determining our annual provision for income taxes and evaluating our income tax positions. Our tax rates are affected by many factors, including our global mix of earnings, legislation, acquisitions and dispositions, as well as the tax characteristics of our income. In determining our income tax provisions on a jurisdiction basis, we are required to make judgments on the need to record deferred tax assets and liabilities, including the realizability of deferred tax assets. A valuation allowance for deferred tax assets is established if it is more likely than not that a deferred tax asset will not be realized. In evaluating uncertain tax positions, we make determinations of the application of complex tax rules, regulations and practices. We evaluate our uncertain tax positions quarterly based on many factors including, but not limited to, new facts, changes in tax law and information received from regulators. A change in any one of these factors could change our evaluation of an existing uncertain tax position, resulting in the recognition of an additional charge or benefit to our income tax provision in the period. As such, going forward, our effective tax rate may fluctuate. Additionally, our income tax returns are routinely audited and settlements of issues raised in these audits sometimes affect our tax provisions. The resolution of audit issues and income tax positions taken may take extended periods of time due to the length of examinations by tax authorities and the possible extension of statutes of limitations. A 1% change in our effective rate, excluding discrete items, would result in additional income tax expense of approximately $32 million for the year ended September 30, 2011. We permanently reinvest the earnings of substantially all of our foreign subsidiaries outside the United States. We do not provide for U.S. taxes on earnings of our foreign subsidiaries for which the earnings are permanently reinvested. Fair Value Measurements The performance of fair value measurements is an integral part of the preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell the asset or paid to transfer the liability in an orderly transaction between market participants. Selection of the appropriate valuation technique, as well as determination of assumptions, risks and estimates used by market participants in pricing the asset or liability requires significant judgment. Although we believe that the inputs used in our valuation techniques are reasonable, a change in one or more of the inputs could result in an increase or decrease in the fair value of certain assets and certain liabilities. Either instance would have an impact on both our Consolidated Balance Sheet and Consolidated Statement of Earnings. Provided below are those instances where the determination of fair value could have the most significant impact on our financial condition or results of operations: Goodwill. Goodwill at September 30, 2011 relates to our reporting units Music and Logo ($2.0 billion), Nickelodeon ($2.9 billion), Entertainment ($1.8 billion), BET Networks ($2.7 billion) and Paramount ($1.6 billion). In September 2011, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued new guidance that permits 67 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) an entity to first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is necessary to perform the two step annual goodwill impairment test. If an entity believes, as a result of its qualitative assessment, that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is greater than its carrying amount, the quantitative impairment test is not required. The guidance is effective for goodwill impairment tests performed for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2011 with early adoption permitted. We adopted the new guidance for our August 31, 2011 annual goodwill impairment test. Based on our qualitative assessment, including but not limited to, consideration of macroeconomic conditions, industry and market conditions, cost factors, cash flows, changes in key Company personnel and our share price, we were not required to perform the two step goodwill impairment test for any of our reporting units. Under the accounting rules in effect in 2010 and 2009, we were required to perform the annual quantitative impairment test. The first step of a quantitative goodwill impairment test is to identify a potential impairment by comparing the fair value of a reporting unit with its carrying amount. The second step, if necessary, compares the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. The implied fair value of goodwill is determined in the same manner as the amount of goodwill recognized in a business combination. The estimates of fair value of a reporting unit were determined based on a discounted cash flow analysis. A discounted cash flow analysis requires us to make various judgmental assumptions, including assumptions about the timing and amount of future cash flows, growth rates and discount rates. Given the inherent uncertainty in determining these assumptions, actual results may differ from those used in our valuations. The assumptions about future cash flows and growth rates were based on the budget and long term business plans of each operating segment. Such assumptions took into account numerous factors including historical experience, anticipated economic conditions, advertising sales and ratings trends, terms of affiliate license arrangements and anticipated terms of renewals, projected costs for production and programming, number and expected financial performance of films expected to be produced and distributed each year and changes in the reporting unit cost structures. Discount rate assumptions for each reporting unit took into account our assessment of the risks inherent in the future cash flows of the respective reporting unit and our weighted average cost of capital. We also reviewed marketplace data to assess the reasonableness of our computation of Viacoms overall weighted average cost of capital and, when available, the discount rates utilized for each of our reporting units. Discontinued Operations In connection with our 2010 goodwill impairment test, we recorded a $230 million goodwill impairment charge related to Harmonix. The estimated fair value of Harmonix was determined using a discounted cash flow analysis. Significant assumptions reflected in the analysis include the estimated future cash flows of the business and discount rate. A one percentage point change in the perpetual growth rate or discount rate would not have resulted in a significant change in the goodwill impairment charge. Finite Lived Intangible Assets. In determining whether finite lived intangible assets (e.g., customer lists, film libraries) are impaired, the accounting rules do not provide for an annual impairment test. Instead, they require that a triggering event occur before testing an asset for impairment. Once a triggering event has occurred, the impairment test employed is based on whether the intent is to hold the asset for continued use or to hold the asset for sale. If the intent is to hold the asset for continued use, first a comparison of undiscounted future cash flows against the carrying value of the asset is performed. If the carrying value exceeds the undiscounted cash flows, the asset would be written down to the discounted fair value. If the intent is to hold the asset for sale, to the extent the carrying value is greater than the assets value, an impairment loss is recognized for the difference. 68 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Significant judgments in this area involve determining whether a triggering event has occurred, the determination of the cash flows for the assets involved and the discount rate to be applied in determining fair value. OTHER MATTERS Related Parties National Amusements Inc. (NAI), directly and through a wholly owned subsidiary, is the controlling stockholder of both Viacom and CBS Corporation (CBS). Sumner M. Redstone, the controlling shareholder, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of NAI, serves as our Executive Chairman and Founder and as the Executive Chairman and Founder of CBS. Shari Redstone, who is Sumner Redstones daughter, is the President and a director of NAI, and serves as non executive Vice Chair of the Board of Directors of both Viacom and CBS. George Abrams, one of our directors, serves on the boards of both NAI and Viacom, and Frederic Salerno, another of our directors, serves on the boards of both Viacom and CBS. Philippe Dauman, our President and Chief Executive Officer, also serves on the boards of both NAI and Viacom. Transactions between Viacom and related parties are overseen by our Governance and Nominating Committee. Viacom and NAI Related Party Transactions NAI licenses films in the ordinary course of business for its motion picture theaters from all major studios, including Paramount. Paramount earned revenues from NAI in connection with these licenses in the aggregate amounts of approximately $44 million in 2011, $21 million in 2010 and $34 million in 2009. Viacom and CBS Corporation Related Party Transactions In the ordinary course of business, we are involved in transactions with CBS and its various businesses that result in the recognition of revenues and expenses by Viacom. Transactions with CBS are settled in cash. Paramount earns revenues and recognizes expenses associated with the distribution of certain television products into the home entertainment market on behalf of CBS. Under the terms of the agreement, Paramount is entitled to retain a fee based on a percentage of gross receipts and is generally responsible for all out of pocket costs which are recoupable together with any advance amounts paid, prior to any participation payments to CBS. In connection with this agreement, Paramount made payments of $50 million in the quarter ended March 31, 2011, and $100 million in each of the quarters ended March 31, 2010 and 2009. Paramount also earns revenues from CBS through leasing of studio space and licensing of certain film products. Additionally, the Media Networks segment recognizes advertising revenues from CBS. The Media Networks segment purchases television programming from CBS. The cost of such purchases is initially recorded as acquired program rights inventory and amortized over the estimated period that revenues will be generated. Both of our segments recognize advertising expenses related to the placement of advertisements with CBS. 69 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) The following table summarizes the transactions with CBS as included in our consolidated financial statements. CBS Related Party Transactions (in millions) Year EndedSeptember 30,2011 Nine Months EndedSeptember 30,2010 Year EndedDecember 31,2009 Consolidated Statements of Earnings Revenues $ 341 $ 244 $ 406 Operating expenses $ 434 $ 318 $ 504 September 30, 2011 2010 Consolidated Balance Sheets Accounts receivable $ 6 $ 9 Other assets 1 1 Total due from CBS $ 7 $ 10 Accounts payable $ 1 $ 4 Participants share and residuals, current 162 227 Program rights obligations, current 73 100 Program rights obligations, noncurrent 243 263 Other liabilities 37 39 Total due to CBS $ 516 $ 633 Agreements with CBS Corporation In connection with the separation, we and CBS entered into a Separation Agreement, a Transition Services Agreement and a Tax Matters Agreement, as well as certain other agreements to govern the terms of the separation and certain of the ongoing relationships between CBS and us after the separation. These related party arrangements are more fully described below. Indemnification Obligations. Pursuant to the Separation Agreement, each company indemnified the other company and the other companys officers, directors and employees for any losses arising out of its failure to perform or discharge any of the liabilities it assumed pursuant to the Separation Agreement, including with respect to certain legal matters, its businesses as conducted as of the date of the separation and its breaches of shared contracts. Limitations on Certain Acquisitions. Subject to limited exceptions, the Separation Agreement provides that none of Viacom, any subsidiary of Viacom or any person that is controlled by Viacom after the separation will own or acquire an interest in a radio or television broadcast station, television broadcast network or daily newspaper, if such ownership or acquisition would (i) cause CBS, any subsidiary of CBS or any entity controlled by CBS after the date of the separation to be in violation of U.S. federal laws limiting the ownership or control of radio broadcast stations, television broadcast stations and or television broadcast networks or (ii) limit in any manner at any time under such laws CBS ability to acquire additional interests in a radio or television broadcast station and or television broadcast network. These restrictions will terminate when none of Mr. Redstone, NAI, NAIRI or any of their successors, assigns or transferees are deemed to have interests in both CBS and Viacom that are attributable under applicable U.S. federal laws. The Separation Agreement also provides that neither Viacom, any subsidiary of Viacom or any person controlled by Viacom nor CBS, any subsidiary of CBS or any person controlled by CBS will acquire any asset, enter into any agreement or accept or agree to any condition that purports to bind, or subjects to a legal order, the other company, its subsidiaries or any person it controls without such other partys written consent. 70 Table of Contents Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition (continued) Tax Matters The Tax Matters Agreement sets forth Viacoms responsibilities with respect to, among other things, liabilities for federal, state, local and foreign income taxes for periods before and including the merger, the preparation and filing of income tax returns for such periods, disputes with taxing authorities regarding income taxes for such periods and indemnification for income taxes that would become due if the merger were taxable. Viacom is generally responsible for federal, state and local, and foreign income taxes for periods before the merger relating to Viacoms respective businesses. Income tax liabilities relating to discontinued operations and previously disposed businesses have been allocated in accordance with the principles applicable under the Separation Agreement for liabilities relating to those operations and businesses. Other income tax liabilities, including items that do not specifically relate to either business, will be shared equally. Viacom and CBS will generally be jointly responsible for managing any dispute relating to income taxes for which both parties may be responsible. The Tax Matters Agreement also provides that, depending on the event, Viacom may have to indemnify CBS, or CBS may have to indemnify Viacom, for some or all of the taxes resulting from the transactions related to the merger and the distribution of Viacom common stock if the merger and distribution do not qualify as tax free under Sections 355 and 368 of the Code. Other Related Party Transactions In the ordinary course of business, we are involved in related party transactions with equity investees, principally related to investments in unconsolidated variable interest entities as more fully described in Note 3 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. These related party transactions principally relate to the provision of advertising services, licensing of film and programming content, distribution of films and provision of certain administrative support services, for which the impact on our Consolidated Financial Statements is as follows: Other Related Party Transactions (in millions) Year EndedSeptember 30,2011 Nine Months EndedSeptember 30,2010 Year EndedDecember 31,2009 Consolidated Statements of Earnings Revenues $ 239 $ 168 $ 375 Operating expenses $ 83 $ 53 $ 207 Selling, general and administrative $ (16 ) $ (24 ) $ September 30, 2011 2010 Consolidated Balance Sheets Accounts receivable $ 88 $ 88 Other assets 2 9 Total due from other related parties $ 90 $ 97 Accounts payable $ 32 $ 26 Other liabilities 10 29 Total due to other related parties $ 42 $ 55 All other related party transactions are not material in the periods presented. 71 Table of Contents Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk. Disclosures on our market risk are included in Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition Market Risk. 
 
