FILE:KMI/KMI-8K-20111207153218.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 8.01                      Other Events
 
As previously disclosed, on October 16, 2011, El Paso Corporation, a Delaware corporation (), together with Sirius Holdings Merger Corporation, a Delaware corporation  ), and a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of El Paso and Sirius Merger Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Sirius Holdings, entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the ) with Kinder Morgan, Inc., a Delaware corporation (), Sherpa Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of KMI, and Sherpa Acquisition, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of KMI.  Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, El Paso will become a wholly owned subsidiary of KMI.
El Paso
Sirius Holdings
Merger Agreement
KMI
 
The combination of El Paso and Kinder Morgan (the ) remains subject to the satisfaction or waiver of various closing conditions, including the expiration or termination of the waiting period under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976, as amended (the ).
Transaction
HSR Act
 
Both El Paso and KMI filed notification and report forms with the U.S. Department of Justice and the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (the ) pursuant to the HSR Act on November 4, 2011.
FTC
 
On December 5, 2011, El Paso and KMI each received a request for additional information and documentary material (a ) from the FTC in connection with the FTCs review of the Transaction.  A second request is a common occurrence, and not unanticipated by El Paso and KMI.
second request
 
Issuance of the second request extends the waiting period under the HSR Act until 30 days after both parties have substantially complied with the requests, unless the waiting period is terminated earlier by the FTC.  Both El Paso and KMI are working cooperatively with the FTC staff in the review of the Transaction.  El Paso and KMI continue to anticipate the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement will close in the second quarter of 2012, as previously announced.
 
Completion of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement remains subject to approval by the stockholders of El Paso, as well as the satisfaction or waiver of the other closing conditions specified in the Merger Agreement.
 
Important Additional Information Will Be Filed With The SEC:
 
Kinder Morgan, Inc. (KMI) has filed with the SEC a Registration Statement on Form S-4 in connection with the proposed transaction, including a preliminary Information Statement/Prospectus of KMI and a preliminary Proxy Statement of El Paso Corporation (EP). The Registration Statement has not yet become effective.  Following the Registration Statement having been declared effective by the SEC, KMI and EP plan to file with the SEC and mail to their respective stockholders a definitive Information Statement/Proxy Statement/Prospectus in connection with the proposed transaction.  INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND THE PRELIMINARY INFORMATION STATEMENT/PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND ANY OTHER
 
 
2
 
RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED OR TO BE FILED BY KMI OR EP, INCLUDING THE DEFINITIVE INFORMATION STATEMENT/PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS, BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN OR WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION. Investors and security holders are able to obtain free copies of the Registration Statement and the preliminary Information Statement/Proxy Statement/Prospectus and other documents filed with the SEC by KMI and EP through the web site maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov or by phone, e-mail or written request by contacting the investor relations department of KMI or EP at the following:
 
This communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to the registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. No offering of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
Participants In The Solicitation
 
KMI and EP, and their respective directors and executive officers, may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transactions contemplated by the merger agreement. Information regarding KMIs directors and executive officers is contained in KMIs Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, which has been filed with the SEC. Information regarding EPs directors and executive officers is contained in EPs Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and its proxy statement dated March 29, 2011, which are filed with the SEC. A more complete description will be available in the Registration Statement and the Information Statement/Proxy Statement/Prospectus.
 
Safe Harbor For Forward-Looking Statements
 
Statements in this document regarding the proposed transaction between KMI and EP, the expected timetable for completing the proposed transaction, future financial and operating results, benefits and synergies of the proposed transaction, future opportunities for the combined company, the sale of EPs exploration and production assets, the possible drop-down of assets and any other statements about KMI or EP managements future expectations, beliefs, goals, plans or prospects constitute forward looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any statements that are not statements of historical fact (including statements containing the words believes, plans, anticipates, expects, estimates and similar expressions) should also be considered to be forward looking statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those indicated by such forward looking statements, including: the ability to consummate the proposed transaction; the ability to obtain the requisite regulatory and shareholder approvals and the satisfaction of other conditions to consummation of the
 
 
3
 
transaction; the possibility that financing might not be available on the terms committed; the ability to consummate contemplated asset sales; the ability of KMI to successfully integrate EPs operations and employees; the ability to realize anticipated synergies and cost savings; the potential impact of announcement of the transaction or consummation of the transaction on relationships, including with employees, suppliers, customers and competitors; the ability to achieve revenue growth; national, international, regional and local economic, competitive and regulatory conditions and developments; technological developments; capital and credit markets conditions; inflation rates; interest rates; the political and economic stability of oil producing nations; energy markets, including changes in the price of certain commodities; weather conditions; environmental conditions; business and regulatory or legal decisions; the timing and success of business development efforts; terrorism; and the other factors described in KMIs and EPs Annual Reports on Form 10 K for the year ended December 31, 2010 and their most recent Exchange Act reports filed with the SEC. Except as required by law, KMI and EP disclaim any intention or obligation to update any forward looking statements as a result of developments occurring after the date of this document.
 
 
4
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
  
 
5
 


