FILE:KMI/KMI-8K-20110420161913.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
In accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K, the following information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
On April 20, 2011, Kinder Morgan, Inc. issued a press release regarding its financial results for the quarter ended March 31, 2011 and will hold a webcast conference call on April 20, 2011 discussing those results. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
On April 19, 2011, the board of directors of Kinder Morgan, Inc. elected Joel V. Staff, formerly Chairman and CEO of Reliant Energy, Inc., and Deborah A. Macdonald, formerly president of the Natural Gas Pipelines Group at Kinder Morgan, Inc. to Kinder Morgan, Inc.s board.  Following the elections of Ms. Macdonald and Mr. Staff, Kinder Morgan, Inc. has thirteen members on its board of directors.  Ms. Macdonald has been appointed to the audit committee and the compensation committee of Kinder Morgan, Inc.s board.  Mr. Staff has been appointed to the audit committee, the compensation committee and the nominating and governance committee of Kinder Morgan, Inc.s board.  There is no arrangement or understanding between either Ms. Macdonald or Mr. Staff and any other person pursuant to which she or he was selected as a director. Each of Ms. Macdonald or Mr. Staff will receive compensation for his service on the board in accordance with Kinder Morgan, Inc.s standard compensatory arrangement for non-employee directors. A description of the compensatory arrangement for non-employee directors is set forth in Kinder Morgan, Inc.s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010.
 
  
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
DIVIDEND OF $0.14 PER SHARE
Full Quarter Dividend Would Be $0.29 Per Share
HOUSTON, April 20, 2011  Kinder Morgan, Inc. (NYSE: KMI) today reported first quarter cash available to pay dividends of $251 million.  Chairman and CEO Richard D. Kinder said that KMI is on target to meet or exceed its previously disclosed annual budget of $820 million in cash available to pay dividends.
The board of directors declared a prorated dividend for the first quarter of $0.14 per share, payable on May 16, 2011, to shareholders of record as of May 2, 2011.  The initial dividend is prorated from Feb. 16, 2011, the day that KMI closed its initial public offering.  Based on a full quarter, the dividend amounts to $0.29 per share ($1.16 annualized).
KMI owns the general partner of Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, L.P. (NYSE: KMP), one of the largest publicly traded pipeline limited partnerships in America, and has limited partner interests in KMP and Kinder Morgan Management, LLC (NYSE: KMR).  Approximately 98 percent of the distributions KMI receives are attributable to KMP.  KMI also owns a 20 percent interest in Natural Gas Pipeline Company of America.
KMI also announced the election of two independent members to its board of directors - Joel V. Staff, formerly Chairman and CEO of Reliant Energy, Inc., and Deborah A. Macdonald, formerly president of the Natural Gas Pipelines Group at Kinder Morgan, Inc.  I am delighted that Joel and Deb have agreed to join the KMI board, Kinder said.  They bring a wealth of experience, knowledge and dedication that will aid us in continuing our growth.
Please refer to KMPs first quarter earnings news release (also distributed today) for more detailed information on KMP and KMR.
Kinder Morgan, Inc. (NYSE: KMI) is a leading pipeline transportation and energy storage company in North America.  It owns an interest in or operates more than 37,000 miles of pipelines and 180 terminals.  Its pipelines transport natural gas, gasoline, crude oil, CO and other products, and its terminals store petroleum products and chemicals and handle such products as ethanol, coal, petroleum coke and steel.  KMI owns the general partner interest of
2
 
 
 
 
Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, L.P. (NYSE: KMP), one of the largest publicly traded pipeline limited partnerships in the United States.  Combined, the companies have an enterprise value of approximately $55 billion.  For more information please visit .
www.kindermorgan.com
Please join KMI at 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time on Wednesday, April 20, at for a LIVE webcast conference call on the companys first quarter earnings.
www.kindermorgan.com
The non-generally accepted accounting principles, or non-GAAP, financial measure of  cash available to pay dividends is presented in this news release.  This non-GAAP financial measure should not be considered as an  alternative to a GAAP measure such as net income or any other GAAP measure of liquidity or financial performance.  Cash available to pay dividends is a significant metric used by us and by external users of our financial statements, such as investors, research analysts, commercial banks and others, to compare basic cash flows generated by us to the cash dividends we expect to pay our shareholders on an ongoing basis.  Management uses this metric to evaluate our overall performance.  Cash available to pay dividends is also an important non-GAAP financial measure for our shareholders because it serves as an indicator of our success in providing a cash return on investment.  This financial measure indicates to investors whether or not we typically are generating cash flow at a level that can sustain or support an increase in the quarterly dividends we are paying.  Our dividend policy provides that, subject to applicable law, we will pay quarterly cash dividends generally representing the cash we receive from our subsidiaries less any cash disbursements and reserves established by our board of directors.  Cash available to pay dividends is also a quantitative measure used in the investment community because the value of a share of an entity like KMI that pays out all or a substantial proportion of its cash flow, is generally determined by the dividend yield (which in turn is based on the amount of cash dividends the corporation pays to its shareholders).  The economic substance behind our use of cash available to pay dividends is to measure and estimate the ability of our assets to generate cash flows sufficient to pay dividends to our investors.
We believe the GAAP measure most directly comparable to cash available to pay dividends is income from continuing operations.  A reconciliation of cash available to pay dividends to income from continuing operations is provided in this release.  Our non-GAAP measure described above should not be considered as an alternative to GAAP net income and has important limitations as an analytical tool. Our computation of cash available to pay dividends may differ from similarly titled measures used by others. You should not consider this non-GAAP measure in isolation or as a substitute for an analysis of our results as reported under GAAP.  Management compensates for the limitations of this non-GAAP measure by reviewing our comparable GAAP measures, understanding the differences between the measures and taking this information into account in its analysis and its decision making processes.
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Although Kinder Morgan believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that such assumptions will materialize.  Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements herein include those enumerated in Kinder Morgans Forms 10-K and 10-Q as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and those set forth herein under the caption Other News.
Contacts
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 
 
Notes:
 
 
 


