FILE:KMI/KMI-8K-20120224182259.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.01. Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
   
 
On February 24, 2012, EP Energy Corporation, EP Energy Holding Company and El Paso Brazil, L.L.C. (collectively, the ), each a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of El Paso Corporation (), entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement (the ) with EPE Acquisition, LLC, a limited liability company affiliated with Apollo Global Management. L.L.C., Riverstone Holdings LLC, Access Industries, Inc. and other investors (collectively, the ), to sell all of El Pasos exploration and production assets through the sale of the equity interests (the ) of EP Energy, LLC, El Paso E&P S. Alamein Cayman Company, UnoPaso Exploracao e Producao de Petroleo e Gas Ltda., El Paso Oleo e Gas do Brasil Ldta. and El Paso Brazil Holdings Company (collectively, the ).
Sellers
El Paso
Purchase and Sale Agreement
Purchaser
EP Energy Sale
Companies
Under the terms of the Purchase and Sale Agreement, the Purchaser shall pay Sellers approximately $7.15 billion payable in cash or other immediately available funds, subject to adjustments for certain items such as cash contributions or distributions, incurrence of indebtedness and title defects.  The sale of El Pasos exploration and production assets is contemplated by the Agreement and Plan of Merger (the ), dated as of October 16, 2011, by and among El Paso and Kinder Morgan, Inc. () and certain of their respective subsidiaries.  The closing of the EP Energy Sale is conditioned upon the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Kinder Morgan Merger Agreement.  Both transactions are expected to be completed in the second quarter of 2012.
Kinder Morgan Merger Agreement
Kinder Morgan
The Purchase and Sale Agreement contains customary representations, warranties, covenants and indemnifications relating to the assets and operations of the Companies and the Sellers ownership thereof. Consummation of the EP Energy Sale is subject to customary closing conditions, including clearance under the antitrust laws of the United States.  There can be no assurance that these closing conditions will be satisfied.  The Purchase and Sale Agreement also provides under certain circumstances for the payment of a termination fee by Kinder Morgan of $400 million. Pursuant to the Kinder Morgan Merger Agreement, Kinder Morgan is required to indemnify El Paso and its subsidiaries from any and all costs incurred by El Paso or its subsidiaries arising from or relating to the EP Energy Sale.
El Paso has entered into a guarantee in favor of the Purchaser whereby El Paso absolutely, irrevocably and unconditionally guarantees to the Purchaser the full payment and performance of the Sellers obligations under the Purchase and Sale Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby.
Item 8.01. Other Events
   
On February 24, 2012, Kinder Morgan issued a press release announcing the EP Energy Sale.  A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this Item 8.01.
 
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
   
 
(d) Exhibits
The following exhibits are furnished or filed, as applicable, with this Current Report on Form 8-K:
 
 
 
 
IMPORTANT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FILED WITH THE SEC
 
Kinder Morgan has filed with the SEC a Registration Statement on Form S-4 in connection with the proposed transaction contemplated by the Kinder Morgan Merger Agreement including a definitive Information Statement/Prospectus of Kinder Morgan and a definitive Proxy Statement of El Paso. The Registration Statement was declared effective by the SEC on January 30, 2012. Kinder Morgan and El Paso mailed the definitive Information Statement/Prospectus of Kinder Morgan and definitive Proxy Statement of El Paso on or about January 31, 2012. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND THE DEFINITIVE INFORMATION STATEMENT/PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED OR TO BE FILED BY KINDER MORGAN OR El Paso BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION. Investors and security holders are able to obtain free copies of the Registration Statement and the definitive Information Statement/Proxy Statement/Prospectus and other documents filed with the SEC by Kinder Morgan and El Paso through the web site maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov or by phone, e-mail or written request by contacting the investor relations department of Kinder Morgan or El Paso at the following:
This communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to the registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. No offering of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
PARTICIPANTS IN THE SOLICITATION
Kinder Morgan and El Paso, and their respective directors and executive officers, may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transactions contemplated by the Kinder Morgan Merger Agreement. Information regarding Kinder Morgans directors and executive officers is contained in the Information Statement/Proxy Statement/Prospectus and Kinder Morgans Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, which have been filed with the SEC. Information regarding El Pasos directors and executive officers is contained in El Pasos Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, and its proxy statement dated March 29, 2011, which are filed with the SEC. A more complete description is available in the Registration Statement and the Information Statement/Proxy Statement/Prospectus.
 
SAFE HARBOR FOR FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Statements in this document regarding the proposed transaction between Kinder Morgan and El Paso, the expected timetable for completing the proposed transactions, future financial and operating results, benefits and synergies of the proposed transactions, future opportunities for the combined company, the expected timetable for completing the sale of El Pasos exploration and production assets, the possible drop-down of assets and any other statements about Kinder Morgan or El Paso managements future
 
 
 
 
expectations, beliefs, goals, plans or prospects constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any statements that are not statements of historical fact (including statements containing the words believes, plans, anticipates, expects, estimates and similar expressions) should also be considered to be forward looking statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those indicated by such forward looking statements, including: the ability to consummate the EP Energy Sale and the proposed transaction contemplated by the Kinder Morgan Merger Agreement; the ability to obtain the requisite regulatory, shareholder approvals and the satisfaction of other conditions to consummation of the transaction; the possibility that financing might not be available on the terms agreed to; the ability to consummate contemplated asset sales; the ability of Kinder Morgan to successfully integrate El Pasos operations and employees; the ability to realize anticipated synergies and cost savings; the potential impact of announcement of the transaction or consummation of the transaction on relationships, including with employees, suppliers, customers and competitors; the ability to achieve revenue growth; national, international, regional and local economic, competitive and regulatory conditions and developments; technological developments; capital and credit markets conditions; inflation rates; interest rates; the political and economic stability of oil producing nations; energy markets, including changes in the price of certain commodities; weather conditions; environmental conditions; business and regulatory or legal decisions; the pace of deregulation of retail natural gas and electricity and certain agricultural products; the timing and success of business development efforts; terrorism; and the other factors described in Kinder Morgans Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 and El Pasos Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, and El Pasos most recent quarterly report filed with the SEC. Kinder Morgan and El Paso disclaim any intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of developments occurring after the date of this document.
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
HOUSTON, Feb. 24, 2012  El Paso Corporation (NYSE: EP) today announced that it has entered into a definitive agreement to sell its exploration and production business, EP Energy Corporation (EP Energy), for approximately $7.15 billion to affiliates of Apollo Global Management, LLC and Riverstone Holdings, LLC, who are joined by Access Industries, Inc. and other parties.  El Pasos entering into a definitive agreement for the sale of its exploration and production business was contemplated in Kinder Morgan, Inc.s (NYSE: KMI) previously announced agreement to acquire El Paso Corporation.  The sale of EP Energy is dependent upon completion of the Kinder Morgan-El Paso transaction, which is expected to close in the second quarter of 2012, subject to customary regulatory approvals.  The sale of EP Energy is also expected to close about the same time as that transaction.
As announced in October of 2011, El Pasos net operating loss carryforwards will largely offset taxes associated with the sale of the exploration and production assets, and thus almost the entirety of the proceeds from this sale will be used to substantially reduce the debt borrowed by KMI to fund the cash portion of its purchase of El Paso.
We are pleased that this pending sale will allow the El Paso exploration and production assets to be kept intact as a single entity, said Kinder Morgan Chairman and CEO Richard D. Kinder.  We thank the EP Energy employees for their efforts to build a strong company and in facilitating the sales process.
Kinder Morgan, Inc. (NYSE: KMI) is a leading pipeline transportation and energy storage company in North America.  It owns an interest in or operates more than 38,000 miles of pipelines and 180 terminals.  Its pipelines transport natural gas, gasoline, crude oil, CO and other products, and its terminals store petroleum products and chemicals and handle such products as ethanol, coal, petroleum coke and steel.  KMI owns the general partner interest of Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, L.P. (NYSE: KMP), one of the largest publicly traded pipeline limited partnerships in America, along with limited partner interest in KMP and Kinder Morgan Management, LLC (NYSE: KMR).  It also operates and owns a 20 percent interest in Natural
2
 
 
 
Gas Pipeline Company of America.  Combined, KMI, KMP and KMR constitute the largest midstream energy entity in the United States with an enterprise value of approximately $65 billion.  For more information please visit .
www.kindermorgan.com
CONTACTS
IMPORTANT ADDITIONAL INFORMATION FILED WITH THE SEC
Kinder Morgan, Inc. (KMI) has filed with the SEC a Registration Statement on Form S-4 in connection with the proposed transaction including a definitive Information Statement/Prospectus of KMI and a definitive Proxy Statement of El Paso Corporation (EP). The Registration Statement was declared effective by the SEC on January 30, 2012. KMI and EP mailed the definitive Information Statement/Prospectus of KMI and definitive Proxy Statement of EP on or about January 31, 2012. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND THE DEFINITIVE INFORMATION STATEMENT/PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED OR TO BE FILED BY KMI OR EP BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION. Investors and security holders are able to obtain free copies of the Registration Statement and the definitive Information Statement/Proxy Statement/Prospectus and other documents filed with the SEC by KMI and EP through the web site maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov or by phone, e-mail or written request by contacting the investor relations department of KMI or EP at the following:
This communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to the registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. No offering of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
PARTICIPANTS IN THE SOLICITATION
KMI and EP, and their respective directors and executive officers, may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transactions contemplated by the merger agreement. Information regarding KMIs directors and executive officers is contained in the Information Statement/Proxy Statement/Prospectus and KMIs Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, which have been filed with the SEC. Information regarding EPs directors and executive officers is contained in EPs Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, and its proxy statement dated March 29, 2011, which are filed with the SEC. A more complete description is available in the Registration Statement and the Information Statement/Proxy Statement/Prospectus.
 
SAFE HARBOR FOR FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
Statements in this document regarding the proposed transaction between KMI and EP, the expected timetable for
 
 
 
completing the proposed transactions, future financial and operating results, benefits and synergies of the proposed
transactions, future opportunities for the combined company, the expected timetable for completing the sale of EPs exploration and production assets, the possible drop-down of assets and any other statements about KMI or EP managements future expectations, beliefs, goals, plans or prospects constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any statements that are not statements of historical fact (including statements containing the words believes, plans, anticipates, expects, estimates
and similar expressions) should also be considered to be forward looking statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those indicated by such forward looking statements, including: the ability to consummate the proposed transaction; the ability to obtain the requisite regulatory, shareholder approvals and the satisfaction of other conditions to consummation of the transaction; the possibility that financing might not be available on the terms agreed to; the ability to consummate contemplated asset sales; the ability of KMI to successfully integrate EPs operations and employees; the ability to realize anticipated synergies and cost savings; the potential impact of announcement of the transaction or consummation of the transaction on relationships, including with employees, suppliers, customers and competitors; the ability to achieve revenue growth; national, international, regional and local economic, competitive and regulatory conditions and developments; technological developments; capital and credit markets conditions; inflation rates; interest rates; the political and economic stability of oil producing nations; energy markets, including changes in the price of certain commodities; weather conditions; environmental conditions; business and regulatory or legal decisions; the pace of deregulation of retail natural gas and electricity and certain agricultural products; the timing and success of business development efforts; terrorism; and the other factors described in KMIs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 and EPs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2010, and EPs most recent quarterly report filed with the SEC. KMI and EP disclaim any intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of developments occurring after the date of this document.


