FILE:KMI/KMI-8K-20120228173011.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
As previously disclosed, on October 16, 2011, El Paso Corporation, a Delaware corporation (""), together with Sirius Holdings Merger Corporation, a Delaware corporation ("") and a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of EP, and Sirius Merger Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Sirius Holdings, entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the "") with Kinder Morgan, Inc., a Delaware corporation (""), Sherpa Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of KMI, and Sherpa Acquisition, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of KMI. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, EP will become a wholly owned subsidiary of KMI.
EP
Sirius Holdings
Merger Agreement
KMI
The purpose of this Current Report on Form 8-K is to file unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information giving effect to the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. Exhibit 99.1 filed herewith is incorporated into this Item 8.01 by reference.
Completion of the transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement remains subject to approval by the stockholders of KMI and EP, as well as the satisfaction or waiver of the other closing conditions specified in the Merger Agreement.
Important Additional Information Filed With The SEC
KMI has filed with the SEC a Registration Statement on Form S-4 in connection with the proposed transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement, including a definitive Information Statement/Prospectus of KMI and a definitive Proxy Statement of EP. The Registration Statement was declared effective by the SEC on January 30, 2012. KMI and EP mailed the definitive Information Statement/Prospectus of KMI and definitive Proxy Statement of EP on or about January 31, 2012. INVESTORS AND SECURITY HOLDERS ARE URGED TO READ THE REGISTRATION STATEMENT AND THE DEFINITIVE INFORMATION STATEMENT/PROXY STATEMENT/PROSPECTUS AND ANY OTHER RELEVANT DOCUMENTS FILED OR TO BE FILED BY KMI OR EP, BECAUSE THEY CONTAIN OR WILL CONTAIN IMPORTANT INFORMATION. Investors and security holders are able to obtain free copies of the Registration Statement and the definitive Information Statement/Proxy Statement/Prospectus and other documents filed with the SEC by KMI and EP through the web site maintained by the SEC at www.sec.gov or by phone, e-mail or written request by contacting the investor relations department of KMI or EP at the following:
 
This communication shall not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any securities, nor shall there be any sale of securities in any jurisdiction in which such offer, solicitation or sale would be unlawful prior to the registration or qualification under the securities laws of any such jurisdiction. No offering of securities shall be made except by means of a prospectus meeting the requirements of Section 10 of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Participants In The Solicitation
KMI and EP, and their respective directors and executive officers, may be deemed to be participants in the solicitation of proxies in respect of the proposed transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement. Information regarding KMI's directors and executive officers is contained in the Information Statement/Proxy Statement/Prospectus and KMI's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, which has been filed with the SEC. Information regarding EP's directors and executive officers is contained in EP's Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 and its proxy statement dated March 29, 2011, which are filed with the SEC. A more complete description is available in the Registration Statement and the Information Statement/Proxy Statement/Prospectus.
Safe Harbor For Forward-Looking Statements
Statements in this document regarding the proposed transaction between KMI and EP, the expected timetable for completing the proposed transactions, future financial and operating results, benefits and synergies of the proposed transaction, future opportunities for the combined company, the expected timetable for completing the sale of EP's exploration and production assets, the possible drop-down of assets and any other statements about KMI or EP managements' future expectations, beliefs, goals, plans or prospects constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Any statements that are not statements of historical fact (including statements containing the words "believes," "plans," "anticipates," "expects," estimates and similar expressions) should also be considered to be forward looking statements. There are a number of important factors that could cause actual results or events to differ materially from those indicated by such forward looking statements, including: the ability to consummate the EP Energy Sale and the proposed transactions contemplated by the Merger Agreement; the ability to obtain the requisite regulatory and shareholder approvals and the satisfaction of other conditions to consummation of the transaction; the possibility that financing might not be available on the terms agreed to; the ability to consummate contemplated asset sales; the ability of KMI to successfully integrate EP's operations and employees; the ability to realize anticipated synergies and cost savings; the potential impact of announcement of the transaction or consummation of the transaction on relationships, including with employees, suppliers, customers and competitors; the ability to achieve revenue growth; national, international, regional and local economic, competitive and regulatory conditions and developments; technological developments; capital and credit markets conditions; inflation rates; interest rates; the political and economic stability of oil producing nations; energy markets, including changes in the price of certain commodities; weather conditions; environmental conditions; business and regulatory or legal decisions; the pace of deregulation of retail natural gas and electricity and certain agricultural products; the timing and success of business development efforts; terrorism; and the other factors described in KMI's and EP's Annual Reports on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011 and their most recent Exchange Act reports filed with the SEC. Except as required by law, KMI and EP disclaim any intention or obligation to update any forward-looking statements as a result of developments occurring after the date of this document.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
On October 16, 2011, El Paso Corporation, a Delaware corporation (referred to as "El Paso"), together with Sirius Holdings Merger Corporation, a Delaware corporation (referred to as "Sirius Holdings") and a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of El Paso, and Sirius Merger Corporation, a Delaware corporation and a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Sirius Holdings, entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (referred to as the "merger agreement") with Kinder Morgan, Inc., a Delaware corporation (referred to as "Kinder Morgan"), Sherpa Merger Sub, Inc., a Delaware corporation and a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Kinder Morgan, and Sherpa Acquisition, LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and a direct, wholly owned subsidiary of Kinder Morgan. Pursuant to the merger agreement, El Paso will become a wholly owned subsidiary of Kinder Morgan. The merger contemplated by the merger agreement is referred to as the "second merger," and the transactions contemplated by the merger agreement and related agreements are referred to as the "transactions." Pursuant to the transactions, El Paso stockholders will receive, upon their election, cash and/or shares of Class P common stock of Kinder Morgan (referred to as the "Kinder Morgan Class P common stock"), as well as warrants to purchase shares of Kinder Morgan Class P common stock (referred to as the "warrants").
Completion of the transactions remains subject to approval by the stockholders of Kinder Morgan and El Paso, as well as the satisfaction or waiver of the other closing conditions specified in the merger agreement.
The following pro forma condensed combined financial information has been developed by applying pro forma adjustments to the individual historical audited financial statements of Kinder Morgan and El Paso. The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet data as of December 31, 2011 of Kinder Morgan has been prepared to give effect to the transactions as if the second merger had occurred on December 31, 2011. The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income data of Kinder Morgan for the year ended December 31, 2011 has been prepared to give effect to the transactions as if the second merger had occurred on January 1, 2011.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information includes pro forma adjustments that are factually supportable and directly attributable to the transactions. In addition, with respect to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income, the unaudited pro forma adjustments are expected to have a continuing impact on the combined results. The unaudited pro forma statements present El Paso's exploration and production business (referred to as "EP Energy") as current assets and liabilities held for sale as of December 31, 2011 and as discontinued operations beginning January 1, 2011, as Kinder Morgan intends to sell the assets of EP Energy. This unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information has been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (referred to as "U.S. GAAP"), in U.S. dollars, in accordance with the Financial Accounting Standards Board's Accounting Standards Codification Topic 805 and the regulations of the SEC.
Business Combinations
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income does not include the following non-recurring items: (i) costs associated with the transactions which are not capitalized as part of the transactions, (ii) the elimination of El Paso's debt issuance costs, which are reflected as an asset on its balance sheet as of December 31, 2011, (iii) known contractual severance costs based on identifying certain employees that will be involuntarily terminated, and (iv) the additional expense associated with accelerated vesting of El Paso's share-based arrangements. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet has been adjusted to reflect these non-recurring items. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not give effect to any cost savings, operating synergies, and revenue enhancements expected to result from the transactions or the costs to achieve these cost savings, operating synergies, and revenue enhancements.
The unaudited pro forma adjustments are based on available preliminary information and certain assumptions that Kinder Morgan believes are reasonable under the circumstances. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented for informational purposes only. The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is not necessarily indicative of the results that might have occurred had the second merger taken place on December 31, 2011 for balance sheet purposes, and on January 1, 2011 for statement of income purposes, and is not intended to be a projection of future results. Future results may vary significantly from the results reflected because of various factors, including those discussed in the sections titled "Risk Factors," "Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements," "Selected Historical Consolidated Financial DataKinder Morgan Selected Historical Consolidated Financial Data," "Additional Information About Kinder MorganKinder Morgan's Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," and the consolidated audited financial statements of Kinder Morgan and El Paso included elsewhere, or incorporated by reference, in the Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-177895) filed by Kinder Morgan with the SEC. All pro forma adjustments and their underlying assumptions are described more fully in the notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information.
 
 
 
 
 
Note 1Basis of Pro Forma Presentation
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements (the "Unaudited Pro Forma Statements") give effect to the proposed transactions under the purchase method of accounting. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet gives effect to the transactions as if the second merger had occurred on December 31, 2011. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income for the year ended December 31, 2011 gives effect to the transactions as if the second merger had occurred on January 1, 2011. The Unaudited Pro Forma Statements present EP Energy as current assets and liabilities held for sale as of December 31, 2011 and discontinued operations beginning January 1, 2011, as Kinder Morgan intends to sell the assets of EP Energy.
These Unaudited Pro Forma Statements are presented for illustrative purposes only. The pro forma adjustments are based upon available information and assumptions described below. The Unaudited Pro Forma Statements are not necessarily indicative of what the actual results of operations or financial position of Kinder Morgan would have been if the transactions had in fact occurred on the dates or for the periods indicated, nor do they purport to project the results of operations or financial position of Kinder Morgan for any future periods or as of any date. The Unaudited Pro Forma Statements do not give effect to any cost savings, operating synergies, and revenue enhancements expected to result from the transactions or the costs to achieve these cost savings, operating synergies, and revenue enhancements.
The Unaudited Pro Forma Statements should be read in conjunction with (i) Kinder Morgan's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, and (ii) El Paso's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, both filed with the SEC.
Note 2Pro Forma Adjustments and Assumptions
 
On February 24, 2012, certain subsidiaries of El Paso entered into a Purchase and Sale Agreement to sell EP Energy to Apollo Global Management L.L.C., Riverstone Holdings, LLC, Access Industries, Inc. and certain other parties for $7.15 billion, subject to adjustments for certain items. The EP Energy sale is conditioned upon the closing of the second merger. Accordingly, the assets and liabilities of EP Energy have been reclassified as current assets and liabilities held for sale on the accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet. In addition, the results of operations (excluding indirect corporate overhead allocations) for EP Energy have been reclassified to discontinued operations on the accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed combined statement of income beginning January 1, 2011. El Paso's net operating loss carryforwards are expected to significantly offset the cash taxes associated with this sale and the resulting cash raised will significantly reduce the debt borrowed to fund the cash portion of this transaction. The assets and liabilities held for sale have been shown in the Pro Forma Combined column of the Unaudited Pro Forma Statements based on the price in the Purchase and Sale Agreement. An increase of $100 million in the fair value for these assets would have the following impacts to the accompanying Unaudited Pro Forma Statements:
Unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet:
 
 
Unaudited pro forma condensed combined income statement:
 
A decrease of $100 million in the sales price would have the opposite impact to the accompanying Unaudited Pro Forma Statements.
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheet Adjustments
 
 
The following is a preliminary estimate of the purchase price for El Paso (in millions, except per share and per warrant amounts):
 
 
 
 
The preliminary allocation of the purchase price is as follows (in millions):
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statement of Income Adjustments
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


