FILE:KMI/KMI-8K-20120118161717.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
In accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K, the following information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
On January 18, 2012, Kinder Morgan, Inc. issued a press release regarding its financial results for the quarter ended December 31, 2011 and will hold a webcast conference call on January 18, 2012 discussing those results. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
  
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
HOUSTON, Jan. 18, 2012  Kinder Morgan, Inc. (NYSE: KMI) today reported fourth quarter cash available to pay dividends of $243.1 million.  For the full year, KMI reported cash available to pay dividends of $835.3 million, exceeding its annual budget of $820 million.
The board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of $0.31 per share ($1.24 annualized), payable on Feb. 15, 2012, to shareholders of record as of Jan. 31, 2012.  This represents an increase of 7 percent from the declared dividend of $0.29 per share ($1.16 annualized) that was announced when KMI was taken public in February 2011.
Chairman and CEO Richard D. Kinder said, KMI had a very good quarter and year, as we continue to benefit from the performance of our publicly traded limited partnership, Kinder Morgan Energy Partners (NYSE: KMP).  Approximately 98 percent of the distributions KMI currently receives are attributable to KMP, which continues to generate stable and incremental cash flow from its diversified assets in virtually all types of market conditions.
For 2012, KMI expects to declare dividends of $1.35 per share  a 13 percent increase over its 2011 declared dividend of $1.20.  The 2011 per share amounts are presented as if KMI were publicly traded for all of 2011.  Note that while KMI previously presented dividends per share on a paid basis, they are now being presented on a declared basis to be consistent with KMP.  On a paid basis, KMIs 2012 expected dividend per share would be $1.30, which is 12 percent above the 2011 budgeted amount.
The 2012 outlook for KMI does not include the impact of its pending acquisition of El Paso Corporation (NYSE: EP), which is expected to close in the second quarter of 2012.  The El Paso transaction is expected to be nicely accretive to KMIs dividend.  The company previously announced that if the El Paso transaction were to close on Jan. 1, 2012, then KMI would expect to pay dividends per share of around $1.45 for 2012.
The growth of KMI is being driven by KMP, which expects to declare cash distributions of $4.98 per unit for 2012, an 8 percent increase over the $4.61 per unit it will distribute for 2011.  The 2012 projections for KMP and Kinder Morgan Management, LLC (NYSE: KMR) also do not include any impact from the proposed acquisition of El Paso by KMI.  Please refer to
 
 
 
 
KMPs fourth quarter earnings news release (also distributed today) for more detailed information on KMP and KMR.
The board of directors approved the 2012 Kinder Morgan budgets at the January board meeting and the budget will be discussed in detail at the companys annual analyst meeting on Jan. 25, 2012, in Houston.  The meeting will begin at 8 a.m. CT and will be webcast live.
Kinder Morgan, Inc. (NYSE: KMI) is a leading pipeline transportation and energy storage company in North America.  It owns an interest in or operates more than 38,000 miles of pipelines and approximately 185 terminals.  Its pipelines transport natural gas, gasoline, crude oil, CO and other products, and its terminals store petroleum products and chemicals and handle such products as ethanol, coal, petroleum coke and steel.  KMI owns the general partner interest of
2
Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, L.P. (NYSE: KMP), one of the largest publicly traded pipeline limited partnerships in America, along with limited partner interest in KMP and Kinder Morgan Management, LLC (NYSE: KMR).  It also operates and owns a 20 percent interest in Natural Gas Pipeline Company of America.  Combined, KMI, KMP and KMR constitute the largest midstream energy entity in the United States with an enterprise value of approximately $65 billion.  For more information please visit .
www.kindermorgan.com
Please join Kinder Morgan at 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time on Wednesday, Jan. 18, at for a LIVE webcast conference call on the companys fourth quarter and full year earnings.
www.kindermorgan.com
CONTACTS
The non-generally accepted accounting principles, or non-GAAP, financial measure of  cash available to pay dividends is presented in this news release. This non-GAAP financial measure should not be considered as an  alternative to a GAAP measure such as net income or any other GAAP measure of liquidity or financial performance. Cash available to pay dividends is a significant metric used by us and by external users of our financial statements, such as investors, research analysts, commercial banks and others, to compare basic cash flows generated by us to the cash dividends we expect to pay our shareholders on an ongoing basis. Management uses this metric to evaluate our overall performance. Cash available to pay dividends is also an important non-GAAP financial measure for our shareholders because it serves as an indicator of our success in providing a cash return on investment. This financial measure indicates to investors whether or not we typically are generating cash flow at a level that can sustain or support an increase in the quarterly dividends we are paying. Our dividend policy provides
 
(more)
 
 
 
 
that, subject to applicable law, we will pay quarterly cash dividends generally representing the cash we
receive from our subsidiaries less any cash disbursements and reserves established by our board of directors. Cash available to pay dividends is also a quantitative measure used in the investment community because the value of a share of an entity like KMI that pays out all or a substantial proportion of its cash flow, is generally determined by the dividend yield (which in turn is based on the amount of cash dividends the corporation pays to its shareholders). The economic substance behind our use of cash
available to pay dividends is to measure and estimate the ability of our assets to generate cash flows sufficient to pay dividends to our investors.
We believe the GAAP measure most directly comparable to cash available to pay dividends is income from continuing operations. A reconciliation of cash available to pay dividends to income from continuing operations is provided in this release. Our non-GAAP measure described above should not be considered as an alternative to GAAP net income and has important limitations as an analytical tool. Our computation of cash available to pay dividends may differ from similarly titled measures used by others. You should not consider this non-GAAP measure in isolation or as a substitute for an analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Management compensates for the limitations of this non-GAAP measure by reviewing our comparable GAAP measures, understanding the differences between the measures and taking this information into account in its analysis and its decision making processes.
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Although Kinder Morgan believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that such assumptions will materialize. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements herein include those enumerated in Kinder Morgans Forms 10-K and 10-Q as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and those set forth herein under the caption Other News.
 
 
 
 
Notes:
  
 
 
 
Notes:
  
 
 
 
Notes:
  
 
 
 
Notes:
  
 
 
 
Notes:
  
 
 
 
 
 
 


