FILE:KMI/KMI-8K-20120718160957.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
In accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K, the following information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
On July 18, 2012, Kinder Morgan, Inc. issued a press release regarding its financial results for the quarter ended June 30, 2012 and will hold a webcast conference call on July 18, 2012 discussing those results. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
  
 
2
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
  
 
3
 

Exhibit 99.1
Kinder Morgan, Inc. Increases Quarterly Dividend to $0.35 Per Share
HOUSTON, July 18, 2012 -- Kinder Morgan, Inc. (NYSE: KMI) today reported second quarter cash available to pay dividends of $307 million, up 83 percent from $168 million for the comparable 2011 period.  Through the first six months, KMI reported cash available to pay dividends of $610 million, 40 percent higher than $435 million for the first half of 2011.  KMI is expected to finish the year significantly ahead of its published annual budget due to its recent acquisition of El Paso Corporation.
 The board of directors increased the quarterly cash dividend to $0.35 per share       ($1.40 annualized), which is payable on Aug.15, 2012, to shareholders of record as of July 31, 2012.  This represents a 17 percent increase over the second quarter 2011 cash distribution per unit of $0.30 ($1.20 annualized) and is up 9 percent from the first quarter 2012 dividend of  $0.32 ($1.28 annualized) per share.
Chairman and CEO Richard D. Kinder said, KMI had an excellent quarter, benefiting from the strong performance of Kinder Morgan Energy Partners (NYSE: KMP), and realizing partial-quarter contributions from our new publicly traded pipeline partnership - El Paso Pipeline Partners (NYSE: EPB) - and the natural gas assets we obtained from the acquisition of El Paso Corporation, which closed on May 24.  It was a historic quarter and Im very proud of this transformational transaction, which we successfully completed as a result of the dedication and hard work of many people.  We remain focused on fully integrating the new organization, and we are well on our way to achieving anticipated annual cost savings of more than $400 million, which is higher than our original estimate of $350 million.  We are now the largest natural gas transporter and operator in North America, which will undoubtedly provide the Kinder Morgan companies with significant long-term growth opportunities, as the demand for natural gas continues to increase.
KMIs future results will be driven primarily by its ownership of the general partner of both KMP and EPB.  KMP and EPB reported 7 percent and 15 percent increases, respectively, in
 
 
 
declared cash distributions per unit for the second quarter compared to the same period in 2011, and both consist of strategic and diversified assets which generate stable and incremental cash flow.  Former El Paso assets currently at KMI include: Tennessee Gas Pipeline (TGP), El Paso Natural Gas pipeline (EPNG), Mojave Pipeline and interests in Florida Gas Transmission, Ruby Pipeline, midstream assets and Gulf LNG.  Over time it is anticipated that these assets will be offered to KMP and EPB in future drop down transactions.
Outlook
As previously announced, KMI now expects to declare dividends of at least $1.40 per share for 2012, well above its 2012 budget of $1.35 per share, and an increase of approximately 17 percent over its 2011 declared dividend of $1.20 per share.  The 2011 per share amounts are presented as if KMI were publically traded for all of 2011.
As a result of the acquisition of El Paso and KMIs normal expected annual growth, KMI continues to expect its dividend per share to grow at an average annual rate of around12.5 percent through 2015 from its budgeted 2011 dividend of $1.16 per share.
Other News
 
 
 
 
Kinder Morgan is the largest midstream and the fourth largest energy company in North America with a combined enterprise value of approximately $100 billion.  It owns an interest in or operates approximately 75,000 miles of pipelines and 180 terminals.  Its pipelines transport natural gas, gasoline, crude oil, CO2 and other products, and its terminals store petroleum products and chemicals and handle such products as ethanol, coal, petroleum coke and steel.  Kinder Morgan, Inc. (NYSE: KMI) owns the general partner interest of Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, L.P. (NYSE: KMP) and El Paso Pipeline Partners, L.P. (NYSE: EPB), along with limited partner interests in KMP, Kinder Morgan Management, LLC (NYSE: KMR) and EPB. For more information please visit www.kindermorgan.com.
www.kindermorgan.com
Please join Kinder Morgan at 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time on Wednesday, July 18, at
for a LIVE webcast conference call on the companys second quarter earnings.
CONTACTS
The non-generally accepted accounting principles, or non-GAAP, financial measure of
cash available to pay dividends is presented in this news release. This non-GAAP financial measure should not be considered as an
alternative to a GAAP measure such as net income or any other GAAP measure of liquidity or financial performance. Cash available to pay dividends is a significant metric used by us and by external users of our financial statements, such as investors, research analysts, commercial banks and others, to compare basic cash flows generated by us to the cash dividends we expect to pay our shareholders on an ongoing basis. Management uses this metric to evaluate our overall performance. Cash available to pay dividends is also an important non-GAAP financial measure for our shareholders because it serves as an indicator of our success in providing a cash return on investment. This financial measure indicates to investors whether or not we typically are generating cash flow at a level that can sustain or support an increase in the quarterly dividends we are paying. Our dividend
policy provides that, subject to applicable law, we will pay quarterly cash dividends generally representing the cash we receive from our subsidiaries less any cash disbursements and reserves established by our board of directors. Cash available to pay dividends is also a quantitative measure used in the investment community because the value of a share of an entity like KMI that pays out all or a substantial proportion of its cash flow, is generally determined by the dividend yield (which in turn is based on the amount of cash dividends the corporation pays to its shareholders). The economic substance behind our use of cash available to pay dividends is
to measure and estimate the ability of our assets to generate cash flows sufficient to pay dividends to our investors.
We believe the GAAP measure most directly comparable to cash available to pay dividends is income from continuing operations. A reconciliation of cash available to pay
 
 
 
 
 
dividends to income from continuing operations is provided in this release. Our non-GAAP measure described above should not be considered as an alternative to GAAP net income and has important limitations as an analytical tool. Our computation of cash available to pay dividends may differ from similarly titled measures used by others. You should not consider this non-GAAP measure in isolation or as a substitute for an analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Management compensates for the limitations of this non-GAAP measure by reviewing our comparable GAAP measures, understanding the differences between the measures and taking this information into account in its analysis and its decision making processes.
This news release includes forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Although Kinder Morgan believes that its expectations are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that such assumptions will materialize.
Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements herein include those enumerated in Kinder Morgan's Forms 10-K and 10-Q as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 
 
 
Notes:
  
 
 
 
Notes:
  
 
 
 
Notes:
  
 
 
 
Notes:
  
 


