FILE:KMI/KMI-8K-20121017181659.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
UNITED STATES
SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
Washington, D.C. 20549
FORM 8-K/A
CURRENT REPORT
Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934
Date of Report (Date of earliest event reported):  October 17, 2012
KINDER MORGAN, INC.
(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
500 Dallas Street, Suite 1000
Houston, Texas 77002
(Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)
713-369-9000
(Registrants telephone number, including area code)
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
EXPLANATORY NOTE:
Earlier today Kinder Morgan, Inc. furnished an 8-K that inadvertently omitted Exhibit 99.1. The Company is furnishing this amended Form 8-K solely to include Exhibit 99.1.
In accordance with General Instruction B.2. of Form 8-K, the following information shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the Exchange Act), nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Exchange Act.
 
On October 17, 2012, Kinder Morgan, Inc. issued a press release regarding its financial results for the quarter ended September 30, 2012 and will hold a webcast conference call on October 17, 2012 discussing those results. The press release is furnished as Exhibit 99.1 to this report.
 
2
S I G N A T U R E
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
  
3
EXHIBIT INDEX
4

Exhibit 99.1
KINDER MORGAN, INC. INCREASES QUARTERLY DIVIDEND
TO $0.36 PER SHARE
Dividend 20% Higher Than Third Quarter 2011
HOUSTON, Oct. 17, 2012 - Kinder Morgan, Inc. (NYSE: KMI) today reported third quarter cash available to pay dividends of $362 million, up 93 percent from $188 million for the comparable 2011 period. Through the first nine months, KMI reported cash available to pay dividends of $972 million compared to $623 million for the same period in 2011. The company now expects to generate cash available to pay dividends of more than $1.325 billion for the year, significantly ahead of its published annual budget. The increase is attributable to the El Paso Corporation acquisition which closed in late May.
The board of directors increased the quarterly cash dividend to $0.36 per share ($1.44 annualized), which is payable on Nov. 15, 2012, to shareholders of record as of Oct. 31, 2012. This represents a 20 percent increase over the third quarter 2011 cash distribution per unit of $0.30 ($1.20 annualized) and is up from the second quarter 2012 dividend of $0.35 ($1.40 annualized) per share.
Chairman and CEO Richard D. Kinder said, KMI had an outstanding quarter and our cash available to pay dividends nearly doubled compared to the third quarter of 2011. Growth was attributable to the strong performance of Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, and a full quarter of contributions from El Paso Pipeline Partners and the natural gas assets that we acquired in the El Paso Corporation transaction. We continue to be very pleased with the El Paso assets that we purchased and the people we have added to the Kinder Morgan team, and we are making significant progress in fully integrating the two companies. We are well on our way to achieving anticipated annual cost savings of more than $400 million, which is higher than our original estimate of $350 million. As the largest natural gas transporter and storage operator in North America, the Kinder Morgan companies are well positioned to play a leading and integral role as demand for natural gas continues to increase.
(more)
Outlook
As previously announced, KMI expects to declare dividends of at least $1.40 per share for 2012, well above its 2012 budget of $1.35 per share, and an increase of approximately 17 percent over its 2011 declared dividend of $1.20 per share. The 2011 per share amounts are presented as if KMI were publicly traded for all of 2011.
As a result of the acquisition of El Paso and KMI's normal expected annual growth, KMI continues to expect its dividend per share to grow at an average annual rate of around 12.5 percent through 2015 from its budgeted 2011 dividend of $1.16 per share.
KMI's future results will be driven primarily by its ownership of the general partner of both Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, L.P. (NYSE: KMP) and El Paso Pipeline Partners, L.P. (NYSE: EPB). KMP and EPB reported 9 percent and 18 percent increases, respectively, in declared cash distributions per unit for the third quarter compared to the same period in 2011, and both consist of strategic and diversified assets which generate stable and growing cash flows. Former El Paso assets currently at KMI include interests in El Paso Natural Gas pipeline, Mojave Pipeline, Florida Gas Transmission, Ruby Pipeline, midstream assets and Gulf LNG. Over time it is anticipated that these assets will be offered to KMP and EPB in future dropdown transactions.
Other News
(more)
 
any of the proceeds from the offering. As previously announced, Goldman, Sachs & Co., The Carlyle Group and Riverstone Holdings LLC no longer have representatives on KMI's board of directors.
Kinder Morgan is the largest midstream and the third largest energy company in North America with a combined enterprise value of approximately $100 billion. It owns an interest in or operates approximately 75,000 miles of pipelines and 180 terminals. Its pipelines transport natural gas, gasoline, crude oil, CO
2
and other products, and its terminals store petroleum products and chemicals and handle such products as ethanol, coal, petroleum coke and steel. Kinder Morgan, Inc. (NYSE: KMI) owns the general partner interest of Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, L.P. (NYSE: KMP) and El Paso Pipeline Partners, L.P. (NYSE: EPB), along with limited partner interests in KMP and EPB and shares in Kinder Morgan Management, LLC (NYSE: KMR). For more information please visit
www.kindermorgan.com
.
Please join Kinder Morgan at 4:30 p.m. Eastern Time on Wednesday, Oct. 17 at
www.kindermorgan.com
for a LIVE webcast conference call on the company's third quarter earnings.
CONTACTS
Emily Mir
                    
Mindy Mills Thornock
Media Relations
                
Investor Relations
(713) 369-8060
                
(713) 369-9490
emily_mir@kindermorgan.com
        
mindy_thornock@kindermorgan.com
www.kindermorgan.com
The non-generally accepted accounting principles, or non-GAAP, financial measure of
cash available to pay dividends is presented in this news release. This non-GAAP financial measure should not be considered as an
alternative to a GAAP measure such as net income or any other GAAP measure of liquidity or financial performance. Cash available to pay dividends is a significant metric used by us and by external users of our financial statements, such as investors, research analysts, commercial banks and others, to compare basic cash flows generated by us to the cash dividends we expect to pay our shareholders on an ongoing basis. Management uses this metric to evaluate our overall performance. Cash available to pay dividends is also an important non-GAAP financial measure for our shareholders because it serves as an indicator of our success in providing a cash return on investment. This financial measure indicates to investors whether or not we typically are generating cash flow at a level that can sustain or support an increase in the quarterly dividends we are paying. Our dividend policy provides that, subject to applicable law, we will pay quarterly cash dividends generally representing the cash we receive from our subsidiaries less any cash disbursements and reserves established by our board of directors. Cash available to pay dividends is also a quantitative measure used in the investment community because the value of a share of an entity like KMI
(more)
that pays out all or a substantial proportion of its cash flow, is generally determined by the
dividend yield (which in turn is based on the amount of cash dividends the corporation pays to its shareholders). The economic substance behind our use of cash available to pay dividends is to measure and estimate the ability of our assets to generate cash flows sufficient to pay dividends to our investors.
We believe the GAAP measure most directly comparable to cash available to pay dividends is income from continuing operations. A reconciliation of cash available to pay dividends to income from continuing operations is provided in this release. Our non-GAAP measure described above should not be considered as an alternative to GAAP net income and has important limitations as an analytical tool. Our computation of cash available to pay dividends may differ from similarly titled measures used by others. You should not consider this non-GAAP measure in isolation or as a substitute for an analysis of our results as reported under GAAP. Management compensates for the limitations of this non-GAAP measure by reviewing our comparable GAAP measures, understanding the differences between the measures and taking this information into account in its analysis and its decision making processes.
This news release includes forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and are based on the beliefs and assumptions of management, based on information currently available to them. Although Kinder Morgan believes that these forward-looking statements are based on reasonable assumptions, it can give no assurance that such assumptions will materialize. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements herein include those enumerated in Kinder Morgan's reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they were made, and except to the extent required by law, Kinder Morgan undertakes no obligation to update or review any forward-looking statement because of new information, future events or other factors. Because of these uncertainties, readers should not place undue reliance on these forward-looking statements.
# # #
Kinder Morgan, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Preliminary Cash Available to Pay Dividends
(Non-GAAP, Unaudited)
(In millions)
Notes:
  
nine months ended September 30, 2011, respectively. In conjunction with KMPs acquisition of its initial 50% interest in May 2010, and subsequently, the remaining 50% interest in May 2011 of KinderHawk, we as general partner of KMP have agreed to waive receipt of a portion of our incentive distributions related to this investment from the first quarter of 2010 through the first quarter of 2013.  
Kinder Morgan, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Preliminary Consolidated Statement of Income (1)
(Unaudited)
(In millions, except per share amounts)
Notes:
  
Kinder Morgan, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Preliminary Reconciliation of Cash Available to Pay Dividends from Continuing Operations
(Unaudited)
(In millions)
Notes
Kinder Morgan, Inc. and Subsidiaries
Preliminary Consolidated Balance Sheets (1)
(Unaudited)
(In millions)
Notes:
  


