FILE:KMI/KMI-8K-20120601154636.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b)
o
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
As previously disclosed in its Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 30, 2012, effective on May 25, 2012, Kinder Morgan, Inc. completed the acquisition of El Paso Corporation, a Delaware corporation, pursuant to an Agreement and Plan of Merger dated October 16, 2011.  This Form 8-K/A amends the Current Report on Form 8-K referred to above to include the pro forma financial information required by Item 9.01(b) of Form 8-K, which is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
Item 9.01                      Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
(b)           .
Pro Forma Financial Information
 
The Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheet of Kinder Morgan, Inc. as of March 31, 2012 and the Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statements of Income for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and the year ended December 31, 2011 and Notes thereto are attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
(d)           .
Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
                                                                  
Exhibit No.
Description
 
 
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
Effective on May 25, 2012 Kinder Morgan, Inc. (Kinder Morgan) acquired all of the outstanding shares of El Paso Corporation (El Paso) for an aggregate consideration of approximately $23 billion. In total, El Paso shareholders received $11.6 billion in cash, 330 million Kinder Morgan Class P shares with a fair value of $10.6 billion as of May 24, 2012 and 505 million Kinder Morgan warrants with a fair value of $863 million as of May 24, 2012.  The warrants have an exercise price of $40 and a five-year term.  On May 24, 2012, as discussed in Note 3 (a) below, EP Energy was sold by El Paso for approximately $7.2 billion. Therefore, the Unaudited Pro Forma Statements present EP Energy as if it had been sold on March 31, 2012 in the accompanying and as discontinued operations beginning January 1, 2011 .
unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet
in the accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income
The following pro forma condensed combined financial information has been developed by applying pro forma adjustments to the individual historical audited financial statements of Kinder Morgan and El Paso. The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet data as of March 31, 2012 of Kinder Morgan has been prepared to give effect to the transactions as if the merger transactions had occurred on March 31, 2012. The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income data of Kinder Morgan for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and year ended December 31, 2011 have been prepared to give effect to the transactions as if the merger had occurred on January 1, 2011.
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information includes pro forma adjustments that are factually supportable and directly attributable to the transactions. In addition, with respect to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income, the unaudited pro forma adjustments have been made only for items that are expected to have a continuing impact on the combined results.
In addition, the historical Kinder Morgan data included in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information presents as current assets and liabilities held for sale as of March 31, 2012 and as discontinued operations beginning January 1, 2011, see Note 2.
Kinder Morgan Energy Partners, L.P.s (KMP) FTC Natural Gas Pipelines disposal group
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income do not include the following non-recurring items: (i) costs associated with the transactions which are not capitalized as part of the transactions, (ii) the elimination of El Pasos debt issuance costs, which are reflected as an asset on its balance sheet as of March 31, 2012, (iii) known contractual employee and non-employee related costs including, severance and retention costs, (iv) the additional expense associated with accelerated vesting of El Pasos share-based compensation arrangements, (v) investment banker advisory and legal fees associated with the merger transactions and (vi) other one-time post merger costs The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet has been adjusted to reflect these non-recurring items. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information does not give effect to any cost savings, operating synergies, and revenue enhancements expected to result from the transactions or the costs to achieve these cost savings, operating synergies, and revenue enhancements.
.
The unaudited pro forma adjustments are based on available preliminary information and certain assumptions that Kinder Morgan believes are reasonable under the circumstances. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is presented for informational purposes only. The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information is not necessarily indicative of the results that might have occurred had the merger taken place on March 31, 2012 for balance sheet purposes, and on January 1, 2011 for statements of income purposes, and is not intended to be a projection of future results. Future results may vary significantly from the results reflected because of various factors.  All pro forma adjustments and their underlying assumptions are described more fully in the notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information.
 
1
 
UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED BALANCE SHEET
AS OF MARCH 31, 2012
(In millions)
 
 
2
 
UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED STATEMENT OF INCOME
FOR THE THREE MONTHS ENDED MARCH 31, 2012
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
3
 
UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED STATEMENT OF INCOME
FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2011
(In millions, except per share amounts)
 
4
 
 
Note 1 - Basis of Pro Forma Presentation
The unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial statements (the Unaudited Pro Forma Statements) give effect to the merger transactions under the purchase method of accounting. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet gives effect to the merger transactions as if they had occurred on March 31, 2012. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income for the three months ended March 31, 2012 and year ended December 31, 2011 give effect to the transactions as if the merger transactions had occurred on January 1, 2011. On May 24, 2012, El Paso sold EP Energy. Therefore, the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information presents EP Energy as if it had been sold on March 31, 2012 in the accompanying and as discontinued operations beginning January 1, 2011.  In addition, the historical Kinder Morgan data included in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined financial information presents KMPs FTC Natural Gas Pipelines disposal group as current assets and liabilities held for sale as of March 31, 2012 and as discontinued operations beginning January 1, 2011, see Note 2.
unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet
in the accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income
 
These Unaudited Pro Forma Statements are presented for illustrative purposes only. The pro forma adjustments are based upon available information and assumptions described below. The Unaudited Pro Forma Statements are not necessarily indicative of what the actual results of operations or financial position of Kinder Morgan would have been if the transactions had in fact occurred on the dates or for the periods indicated, nor do they purport to project the results of operations or financial position of Kinder Morgan for any future periods or as of any date. The Unaudited Pro Forma Statements do not give effect to any cost savings, operating synergies, and revenue enhancements expected to result from the transactions or the costs to achieve these cost savings, operating synergies, and revenue enhancements.
 
The Unaudited Pro Forma Statements should be read in conjunction with the following documents (i) El Pasos Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, (ii) El Pasos Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012,  (iii) Kinder Morgans audited consolidated financial statements and other financial information revised to present KMPs FTC Natural Gas Pipelines disposal group as discontinued operations (see Note 2) and included in Exhibit 99.1 to Kinder Morgans Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 4, 2012, and (iv) Kinder Morgans Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31, 2012
.
 
Note 2  Pending Sale of KMPs FTC Natural Gas Pipelines Disposal Group
 
As previously announced, in order to receive Federal Trade Commission (FTC) approval for the El Paso acquisition, Kinder Morgan agreed to sell KMPs FTC Natural Gas Pipelines disposal group within six months of May 24, 2012. The assets included in this disposal group are KMPs (i) Kinder Morgan Interstate Gas Transmission natural gas pipeline system; (ii) Trailblazer natural gas pipeline system; (iii) Casper and Douglas natural gas processing operations; and (iv) 50% equity investment in the Rockies Express natural gas pipeline system.  In this report, we refer to this combined group of assets as KMPs FTC Natural Gas Pipelines disposal group. Accordingly, the assets and liabilities of KMPs FTC Natural Gas Pipelines disposal group have been presented as current assets and liabilities held for sale in the historical Kinder Morgan information included on the accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet(because the disposal groups combined liabilities were not material to Kinder Morgans consolidated balance sheet as of March 31, 2012, the disposal groups liabilities are included within Kinder Morgans Current liabilities).  In addition, the results of operations for KMPs FTC Natural Gas Pipelines disposal group have been presented as discontinued operations in the historical Kinder Morgan information in the accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income beginning January 1, 2011.
 
 
 
5
 
Note 3 - Pro Forma Adjustments and Assumptions
 
 
El Paso sold its subsidiary, EP Energy, which consists of El Pasos exploration and production business, on May 24, 2012 for $7.2 billion. Accordingly, the assets and liabilities of EP Energy have been presented as sold on the accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed combined balance sheet and the net sale proceeds used to pay off EP Energys long-term debt of $961 million with the remaining amount presented as an increase to Current assets.  In addition, the results of operations (excluding indirect corporate overhead allocations) for EP Energy have been reclassified to discontinued operations on the accompanying unaudited pro forma condensed combined statements of income beginning January 1, 2011. Kinder Morgan used $6.2 billion from the EP Energy sale to pay for a portion of the $11.6 billion cash portion of the purchase price. El Pasos net operating loss carryforwards are expected to significantly offset the cash taxes associated with this sale.
 
An after-tax gain of approximately $2.0 billion on the sale of EP Energy was recorded to El Pasos equity after reducing the cash proceeds received of $7.2 billion, by the net book value of the assets sold and liabilities assumed/repaid based on a March 31, 2012 balance sheet date.  Income taxes on the gain of approximately $0.7 billion were computed using El Pasos statutory tax rate of 36% less income tax adjustments for permanent differences.
 
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Balance Sheet Adjustments
 
 
 
6
 
The following is the purchase price for El Paso (in millions, except per share and per warrant amounts):
 
 
The preliminary allocation of the purchase price is as follows (in millions):
 
 
 
 
7
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Unaudited Pro Forma Condensed Combined Statements of Income Adjustments
 
 
 
 
 
 
8
 
 
 
____________
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
9
 
 
____
 
 
10
 
 
____
 
11
 


