FILE:HPQ/HPQ-8K-20020618171529.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Other events	Financial statements and exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Other events
ITEM: Financial statements and exhibits
================================================================================ SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549-1004 FORM 8-K CURRENT REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 JUNE 18, 2002 Date of Report (Date of Earliest Event Reported) HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY - -------------------------------------------------------------------------------- (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) DELAWARE 1-4423 94-1081436 - ------------------------------- --------------------- -------------------------- (State or other jurisdiction (Commission File (I.R.S. Employer of incorporation) Number) Identification No.) 3000 HANOVER STREET, PALO ALTO, CA 94304 (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code) (650) 857-1501 -------------------- (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) ================================================================================
ITEM 5. OTHER EVENTS This Current Report on Form 8-K relates to the merger (the "Merger"), the effective date of which was May 3, 2002 (the "Effective Time") between Heloise Merger Corporation (the "Merger Sub"), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Hewlett-Packard Company ("HP"), with and into Compaq Computer Corporation ("Compaq"), pursuant to the Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated as of September 4, 2001 (the "Merger Agreement") by and among HP, Compaq and the Merger Sub. At the Effective Time, Merger Sub was merged with and into Compaq with Compaq continuing as the surviving corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of HP. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, as a result of the Merger, each share of Compaq common stock outstanding at the effective time of the Merger was converted into the right to receive 0.6325 of a share of HP common stock. In addition, upon completion of the Merger, HP assumed outstanding stock appreciation rights and options to purchase shares of Compaq common stock, each at the exchange ratio referred to in the preceding sentence, and HP assumed certain Compaq stock plans. Following consummation of the Merger, Compaq's common stock was delisted from the New York Stock Exchange. HP common stock now trades on the New York Stock Exchange and the Pacific Exchange under the symbol "HPQ." The issuance of HP common stock under the Merger Agreement as described above was registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, pursuant to HP's registration statement on Form S-4 (File No. 333-73454) filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "Commission") and declared effective on February 5, 2002, and HP's post-effective amendment to the registration statement on Form S-4 filed with the Commission pursuant to Rule 462(d), which became effective immediately upon filing on February 5, 2002. The Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus of HP and Compaq included in the registration statement on Form S-4 contains additional information about the Merger. A copy of the Merger Agreement is attached as Exhibit 2.1 to HP's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with the Commission on September 4, 2001. This Current Report on Form 8-K attaches hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporates by reference herein HP's unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated balance sheet as of April 30, 2002, and unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statements of earnings for the six months ended April 30, 2002 and the year ended October 31, 2001, giving effect to the Merger as a purchase of Compaq by HP in accordance with Article 11 of Regulation S-X (17 C.F.R. Section 210.11 (2000)).In addition, this Current Report on Form 8-K attaches hereto as Exhibit 99.2 and incorporates by reference herein certain summary information obtained from a document entitled: "HP Product Roadmaps" dated May 7, 2002. ADDITIONAL INFORMATION ABOUT THE MERGER AND WHERE TO FIND IT The definitive Joint Proxy Statement/Prospectus and other relevant materials, and any other documents filed by HP or Compaq with the Commission, may be obtained free of charge at the Commission's web site at www.sec.gov. In addition, investors and security holders may obtain free copies of the documents filed with the Commission by HP and Compaq by contacting HP Investor Relations, 3000 Hanover Street, Palo Alto, California 94304, 650-857-1501.
ITEM 7. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND EXHIBITS. The following exhibits are being filed with this report: 99.1 HP's unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated balance sheet as of April 30, 2002, and unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statements of earnings for the six months ended April 30, 2002 and the year ended October 31, 2001, giving effect to the Merger as a purchase of Compaq by HP using the purchase method of accounting. 99.2 Selected summary information obtained from a document entitled: "HP Product Roadmaps" dated May 7, 2002.
SIGNATURE Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized. HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY Date: June 18, 2002 By: /s/ CHARLES N. CHARNAS ------------------------------- Name: Charles N. Charnas Title: Assistant Secretary
INDEX TO EXHIBITS FILED WITH THE CURRENT REPORT ON FORM 8-K DATED JUNE 18, 2002

EXHIBIT 99.1 UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS The following unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated balance sheet as of April 30, 2002 and the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statements of earnings for the six months ended April 30, 2002 and for the year ended October 31, 2001 are based on the historical financial statements of HP and Compaq after giving effect to the merger as a purchase of Compaq by HP using the purchase method of accounting and the assumptions and adjustments described in the accompanying notes to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements. The merger was completed on May 3, 2002. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated balance sheet as of April 30, 2002 is presented to give effect to the merger as if it occurred on April 30, 2002 and, due to different fiscal period ends, combines the historical balance sheet for HP at April 30, 2002 and the historical balance sheet of Compaq at March 31, 2002. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statement of earnings of HP and Compaq for the six months ended April 30, 2002 is presented as if the combination had taken place on November 1, 2001 and, due to different fiscal period ends, combines the historical results of HP for the six months ended April 30, 2002 and the historical results of Compaq for the six months ended March 31, 2002. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statement of earnings of HP and Compaq for the year ended October 31, 2001 is presented as if the combination had taken place on November 1, 2000 and, due to different fiscal period ends, combines the historical results of HP for the year ended October 31, 2001 and the historical results of Compaq for the twelve months ended September 30, 2001. Under the purchase method of accounting, the total estimated purchase price, calculated as described in Note 1 to these unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements, is allocated to the net tangible and intangible assets of Compaq acquired in connection with the merger, based on their fair values as of the completion of the merger. Independent valuation specialists are currently conducting an independent valuation in order to assist management of HP in determining the fair values of a significant portion of these assets. The preliminary work performed by the independent valuation specialists has been considered in management's estimates of the fair values reflected in these unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements. A final determination of these fair values will include management's consideration of a final valuation prepared by the independent valuation specialists. This final valuation will be based on the actual net tangible and intangible assets of Compaq that existed as of the date of completion of the merger. As of the completion of the merger, management of the combined company had begun to assess and formulate plans to exit certain activities of Compaq and to terminate or relocate certain employees of Compaq. These assessments are still in process. Based on a preliminary analysis to date, costs of approximately $1.3 billion will be accrued as of the completion of the merger for severance or relocation costs related to Compaq employees, costs of vacating some facilities (leased or owned) of Compaq, and other costs associated with exiting activities of Compaq. A pro forma adjustment for $1.3 billion has been included in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated balance sheet as of April 30, 2002. In addition, based on a preliminary analysis, HP expects to incur, during the quarter ended July 31, 2002 or in subsequent quarters, additional costs of approximately $1.3 billion for severance costs related to HP employees, costs of vacating some facilities (leased or owned) of HP, and other costs associated with exiting activities of HP. Management expects to be committed to a formal exit plan such that a significant portion of these costs will be recorded as a restructuring charge in the quarter ended July 31, 2002. An adjustment for an estimate of the restructuring costs to be incurred by HP has not been included in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statements of earnings since such adjustment is non-recurring in nature. HP estimates that this preliminary estimate of these costs, in total, would result in cash expenditures of approximately $2.1 billion with the remainder being non-cash charges. These estimates are preliminary and subject to change based on 1
HP's further assessments. However, any changes will likely be increases to these amounts as additional exit activities are identified and assessments are completed. These unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements have been prepared based on preliminary estimates of fair values. Therefore, the actual amounts recorded as of the completion of the merger may differ materially from the information presented in these unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements due to the receipt of the final valuation, the impact of ongoing integration activities and Compaq's net assets as of the completion date (May 3, 2002). The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements should be read in conjunction with the historical consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes contained in HP's Annual Report on Form 10-K, as amended on January 30, 2002, for its fiscal year ended October 31, 2001 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for its quarter ended April 30, 2002 and Compaq's Annual Report on Form 10-K for its fiscal year ended December 31, 2001 and Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for its quarter ended March 31, 2002. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements are not intended to represent or be indicative of the consolidated results of operations or financial condition of HP that would have been reported had the merger been completed as of the dates presented, and should not be taken as representative of the future consolidated results of operations or financial condition of HP. 2
UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET OF HP AND COMPAQ APRIL 30, 2002 (IN MILLIONS) - ------------------------ (1) The letters refer to a description of the adjustments in Note 2. SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES TO UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. 3
UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS OF HP AND COMPAQ SIX MONTHS ENDED APRIL 30, 2002 (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS) - ------------------------ (1) The letters refer to a description of the adjustments in Note 2. (2) Historical amounts for amortization of intangibles and goodwill have been reclassified to separate line items. (3) Net earnings and net earnings per share are presented before extraordinary items. SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES TO UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. 4
UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF EARNINGS OF HP AND COMPAQ YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 31, 2001 (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS) - ------------------------ (1) The letters refer to a description of the adjustments in Note 2. (2) Historical amounts for amortization of intangibles and goodwill have been reclassified to separate line items. (3) Net earnings (loss) and net earnings (loss) per share from continuing operations are presented before extraordinary items and cumulative effect of change in accounting principle. SEE ACCOMPANYING NOTES TO UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS. 5
NOTES TO UNAUDITED PRO FORMA CONDENSED COMBINED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 1. BASIS OF PRO FORMA PRESENTATION On September 4, 2001, HP and Compaq entered into a merger agreement which resulted in Compaq becoming a wholly-owned subsidiary of HP in a transaction to be accounted for using the purchase method. The total purchase price of $24.2 billion includes HP common stock valued at $22.7 billion, assumed stock options with a fair value of $1.4 billion and estimated direct transaction costs of $120 million. The unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements provide for the issuance of approximately 1.1 billion shares of HP common stock, based upon an exchange ratio of 0.6325 of a share of HP common stock for each outstanding share of Compaq common stock as of May 3, 2002, the completion date of the merger. The average market price per share of HP common stock of $20.92 is based on an average of the closing prices for a range of trading days (August 30, August 31, September 4 and September 5, 2001) around the announcement date (September 3, 2001) of the merger. In addition, HP assumed options to purchase approximately 200 million shares of HP common stock at a weighted average exercise price of $33.29. The fair value of the outstanding options was determined using a Black-Scholes valuation model. In accordance with the terms of Compaq's equity-based plans, all of Compaq's outstanding options which were granted prior to September 1, 2001 vested upon Compaq shareowner approval of the merger. The estimated intrinsic value of $70 million as of May 3, 2002 of unvested Compaq options, which relates to options granted subsequent to August 31, 2001, has been allocated to deferred compensation in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements and will be amortized over a period of approximately 4 years. The total purchase price of the Compaq merger is as follows (in millions):
Value of HP common stock issued............................. $22,670 Assumption of Compaq options................................ 1,440 ------- Total value of HP securities.............................. 24,110 Estimated direct transaction costs.......................... 120 ------- Total purchase price........................................ $24,230 =======
Under the purchase method of accounting, the total purchase price as shown in the table above is allocated to Compaq's net tangible and intangible assets based on their fair values as of the date of the completion of the merger. Based on the preliminary independent valuation, and subject to material changes upon receipt of the final valuation, the impact of ongoing integration activities, and Compaq's 6
net assets as of the completion date (May 3, 2002), the purchase price is preliminarily allocated as follows (in millions): Preliminary estimated purchase price allocation:
Net tangible assets....................................... $ 4,885 Amortizable intangible assets: Customer contracts and lists, distribution agreements... 1,950 Developed and core technology, patents.................. 1,480 Other................................................... 70 Intangible assets with indefinite lives................... 1,400 Goodwill.................................................. 13,868 Deferred compensation..................................... 70 Net deferred tax liability................................ (193) In-process research and development....................... 700 ------- Total preliminary estimated purchase price allocation....... $24,230 =======
Of the total purchase price, a preliminary estimate of $4.9 billion has been allocated to net tangible assets acquired and approximately $3.5 billion has been allocated to amortizable intangible assets acquired. The depreciation and amortization effect of the fair value adjustment to net tangible assets and the amortization related to the amortizable intangible assets are reflected as pro forma adjustments to the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statement of earnings. Developed technology, which comprises products that have reached technological feasibility, includes products in most of Compaq's product lines, principally the Compaq Himalaya, Proliant, Enterprise Storage Array, and AlphaServer products. Core technology and patents represent a combination of Compaq processes, patents and trade secrets developed through years of experience in design and development: clustering, fault tolerant systems, proprietary Alpha processor architecture, and storage area networks. Compaq's technology and products are designed for hardware, software, solutions and services, including enterprise storage and computing solutions, fault tolerant business critical solutions, communication products, and desktop and portable personal computers. This proprietary know-how can be leveraged by Compaq to develop new technology and improved products and manufacturing processes. HP expects to amortize the developed and core technology and patents on a straight-line basis over an average estimated life of 6 years. Customer contracts represent existing contracts that relate primarily to underlying customer relationships pertaining to the services provided by Compaq Global Services, including contractual Customer Services relationships, contractual Managed Services client relationships and contractual Systems Integration consulting client relationships. Customer lists and distribution agreements represent Compaq's relationships with its Enterprise and Personal Systems installed base, and agreements with Enterprise value-added resellers. HP expects to amortize the fair value of these assets, on a straight-line basis over an average estimated life of 9 years. Of the total estimated purchase price, approximately $15.3 billion has been allocated to goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives. Goodwill of $13.9 billion represents the excess of the purchase price of an acquired business over the fair value of the underlying net tangible and intangible assets. Intangible assets of $1.4 billion with indefinite lives consist primarily of the estimated fair value allocated to the Compaq trade name. This intangible asset will not be amortized because it has an indefinite remaining useful life based on many factors and considerations, including the length of time that the Compaq name has been in use, the Compaq brand awareness and market position, and the plans for continued use of the Compaq brand within a portion of HP's overall product portfolio. 7
In accordance with the Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, "Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets," goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives resulting from business combinations completed subsequent to June 30, 2001 will not be amortized but instead will be tested for impairment at least annually (more frequently if certain indicators are present). In the event that management determines that the value of goodwill or intangible assets with indefinite lives has become impaired, HP will incur an accounting charge for the amount of impairment during the fiscal quarter in which the determination is made. Of the total purchase price, a preliminary estimate of $700 million has been allocated to in-process research and development and will be charged to expense in the quarter ended July 31, 2002. Due to its non-recurring nature, the in-process research and development expense has been excluded in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statement of earnings. Compaq is currently developing new products that qualify as in-process research and development in multiple product areas. Projects which qualify as in-process research and development represent those that have not yet reached technological feasibility. Technological feasibility is defined as being equivalent to completion of a beta-phase working prototype in which there is no remaining risk relating to the development. Compaq is currently involved in numerous research and development projects, which are focused on developing new products, integrating new technologies, improving product performance and broadening features and functionalities. The principal research and development efforts of Compaq are directed within the Enterprise and Personal Systems businesses. There is a risk that these developments and enhancements will not be competitive with other products using alternative technologies that offer comparable functionality. The value assigned to in-process research and development was determined by considering the importance of each project to the overall development plan, estimating costs to develop the purchased in-process research and development into commercially viable products, estimating the resulting net cash flows from the projects when completed and discounting the net cash flows to their present value. The revenue estimates used to value the purchased in-process research and development were based on estimates of relevant market sizes and growth factors, expected trends in technology and the nature and expected timing of new product introductions by Compaq and its competitors. The rates utilized to discount the net cash flows to their present value are based on Compaq's weighted average cost of capital. The weighted average cost of capital was adjusted to reflect the difficulties and uncertainties in completing each project and thereby achieving technological feasibility, the percentage of completion of each project, anticipated market acceptance and penetration, market growth rates and risks related to the impact of potential changes in future target markets. Based on these factors, discount rates that range from 25%-42% were deemed appropriate for valuing the in-process research and development. The estimates used in valuing in-process research and development were based upon assumptions believed to be reasonable but which are inherently uncertain and unpredictable. Assumptions may be incomplete or inaccurate, and unanticipated events and circumstances may occur. Accordingly, actual results may vary from the projected results. 2. PRO FORMA ADJUSTMENTS Pro forma adjustments are necessary to reflect the purchase price, to adjust amounts related to Compaq's net tangible and intangible assets to a preliminary estimate of their fair values, to reflect the amortization expense related to the estimated amortizable intangible assets, to reflect changes in depreciation and amortization expense resulting from the estimated fair value adjustments to net tangible assets and to reflect the income tax effect related to the pro forma adjustments. 8
Intercompany balances or transactions between HP and Compaq were not significant. Certain reclassifications have been made to conform Compaq's historical amounts to HP's presentation. The pro forma combined provision for income taxes does not reflect the amounts that would have resulted had HP and Compaq filed consolidated income tax returns during the periods presented. HP has not identified any preacquisition contingencies where a liability is probable and the amount of the liability can be reasonably estimated. Prior to the end of the purchase price allocation period, if information becomes available which would indicate it is probable that such events had occurred and the amounts can be reasonably estimated, such items will be included in the purchase price allocation. The pro forma adjustments included in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated financial statements are as follows: (a) Adjustment to record the effect on the current portion of financing receivables resulting from the difference between the preliminary estimate of the fair value and the historical amount of residual value of equipment under operating leases. (b) Adjustment to record the difference between the preliminary estimate of the fair value and the historical amount of Compaq's inventory. (c) Adjustment to record the current portion of tax adjustments related to the transaction. (d) Adjustment to record the difference between the preliminary estimate of the fair value and the historical amount of Compaq's property, plant and equipment and the resulting adjustment to depreciation expense, as follows (in millions): (e) Adjustments to reflect certain other long-term assets of Compaq at a preliminary estimate of their fair values (in millions):
Pension assets.............................................. $ (640) Residual value of equipment under operating leases.......... (30) Long-term portion of tax adjustments related to the transaction............................................... (2,836) ------- $(3,506) =======
9
(f) Adjustments to reflect the preliminary estimate of the fair value of amortizable intangible assets and the resulting increase in amortization expense, as follows (in millions): (g) Adjustments to reflect the preliminary estimate of the fair value of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives, as follows (in millions): (h) Adjustment to record the difference between the preliminary estimate of the fair value and the historical amount of Compaq's deferred revenue.
Adjustments to reflect the estimated direct transaction (i) costs and other liabilities................................. $ 350 Adjustment for an estimate of costs associated with exiting activities of Compaq........................................ 1,300 ------ $1,650 ======
As of the completion of the merger, management of the combined company had begun to assess and formulate plans to exit certain activities of Compaq and to terminate or relocate certain employees of Compaq. These assessments are still in process. Based on a preliminary analysis to date, costs of approximately $1.3 billion will be accrued as of the completion of the merger for severance or relocation costs related to Compaq employees, costs of vacating some facilities (leased or owned) of Compaq, and other costs associated with exiting activities of Compaq. The pro forma adjustment above for $1.3 billion has been included in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated balance sheet as of April 30, 2002. In addition, based on a preliminary analysis, HP expects to incur, during the quarter ended July 31, 2002 or in subsequent quarters, additional costs of approximately $1.3 billion for severance costs related to HP employees, costs of vacating some facilities (leased or owned) of HP, and other costs associated with exiting activities of HP. Management expects to be committed to a formal exit plan such that a significant portion of these costs will be recorded as a restructuring charge in the quarter ended July 31, 2002. An adjustment for an estimate of the restructuring costs to be incurred by HP has not been included in the unaudited pro forma condensed combined consolidated statements of earnings since such adjustment is non-recurring in nature. HP estimates that this preliminary estimate of these costs, in total, would result in cash expenditures of approximately $2.1 billion with the remainder being non-cash charges. These estimates are preliminary and subject to change based on HP's further assessments. However, any changes will likely be increases to these amounts as additional exit activities are identified and assessments are completed. 10
(j) Adjustment to record the difference between the preliminary estimate of fair value and the historical amount of long-term debt. (k) Adjustments to reflect pension and other long-term liabilities at a preliminary estimate of their fair values. (l) Adjustments to stockholders' equity (in millions):
To record the value of HP shares to be issued and Compaq options to be assumed in the transaction.................. $ 24,110 To record the preliminary estimate of the fair value of in-process research and development....................... (700) To record deferred compensation related to unvested Compaq options................................................... (70) To eliminate Compaq's historical stockholders' equity....... (11,136) -------- $ 12,204 ========
(m) Adjustments to cost of products sold (in millions): (n) Adjustment to record the income tax effect of the pro forma adjustments. 3. PRO FORMA EARNINGS PER SHARE The pro forma basic and diluted earnings per share are based on the weighted average number of shares of HP common stock outstanding and weighted average number of Compaq common stock outstanding multiplied by the exchange ratio. 11

The following selected summary information was obtained from a document entitled "HP Product Roadmaps" dated May 7, 2002: o SERVERS. HP will become the master brand for all server products, but we will keep product families representing both companies. IA-32 SERVERS: Before the merger, HP and Compaq both had IA-32 server offerings: the Compaq ProLiant(TM) and the HP Netserver (and more recently under the new name of HP Server). The ProLiant servers will be HP's IA-32 server offering and will be named HP ProLiant servers. In the transition to the ProLiant name, we also plan to transition to the server-attached storage (Smart Array), rack, rack option and power infrastructure, and systems management families used today with ProLiant platforms. The ProLiant Essentials software offerings will also continue. In addition, the low-end HP Servers tc2210 and tc2100 will continue to be offered but will not be re-branded as HP ProLiant servers. For blade servers, we will continue to offer the ProLiant blade server architecture for the data center. We also will offer HP's blade server optimized for the telecommunications market. ITANIUM SERVERS: HP and Compaq are both selling Intel(R) Itanium(TM) Processor Family servers today, primarily to meet the needs of early adopter customers and developers. Our commitment to the Itanium Processor Family remains very strong. The next-generation Itanium Processor Family servers (McKinley-based) will be the previously published HP Server roadmap, augmented by features from the ProLiant IA-64 roadmap. By the release of the third generation Itanium processor (Madison), HP will offer Itanium-based servers from the low end to the high end of our product line, including HP NonStop(TM) Itanium servers. Our Industry Standard Server and Business Critical System business units will jointly deliver the Itanium-based server family roadmap supporting multiple operating environments in all relevant markets. In addition, over time, HP intends to enhance its original plans by including the ProLiant management capabilities into Itanium servers.
RISC-BASED SERVERS: The combination of the HP PA-RISC and the Compaq AlphaServer(TM) families gives HP a strong position in the RISC and UNIX(R) marketplace. HP will continue with the previously published roadmaps for both PA-RISC and AlphaServer systems, and will continue development of the PA-8800 and PA-8900 processors, as well as the EV7 and EV79 Alpha processors. The roles of these two families will be quite different. The PA-RISC servers will be targeted at the PA-RISC installed base and all new business opportunities. AlphaServer systems will be focused on the Alpha installed base, high performance technical computing and other areas like Oracle 9i RAC. FAULT TOLERANT SERVERS: One of the additions to the HP offerings is the fault-tolerant NonStop server family from Compaq, which is now known as the HP NonStop Server. The NonStop Server Roadmap includes the two planned MIPS processor upgrades and the transition to Itanium. UNIX: HP and Compaq both offered UNIX operating systems: HP-UX and Compaq Tru64(TM) UNIX. HP-UX will be the long-term UNIX for the new HP. Certain features of the Tru64 UNIX -- including clustering and file systems -- will be integrated into HP-UX over time. OPENVMS: HP also will deliver on the previously announced Compaq OpenVMS(TM) roadmap, including the port to Itanium. o STORAGE. We are making many individual product decisions encompassing products and strategies from both organizations. Our overall decision was to adopt the Compaq StorageWorks(TM) name (re-named HP StorageWorks) for storage and storage solutions, HP OpenView as the name for storage software, and ENSA (Enterprise Network Storage Architecture) as the name for our architecture going forward. ONLINE STORAGE: HP remains committed to offering multiple choices for disk array and storage area network products. We plan to consolidate and rationalize our array portfolio and focus on creating NAS/SAN convergence. At the high end, we will continue to offer both HP-XP and Compaq StorageWorks Enterprise Virtual Array (EVA). In the mid-range, we will offer the StorageWorks EVA architecture, but we will continue to offer HP VA solutions for HP-UX centric and heterogeneous environments and StorageWorks EMA modular arrays for ProLiant, AlphaServer systems running Tru64 UNIX and OpenVMS, and heterogeneous environments -- until approximately the middle of 2003. In the area of storage networking, we will consolidate both Compaq and HP's storage networking offerings into one product line with common firmware and integration. In terms of NAS, we will offer the StorageWorks appliance for the entry level, the HP appliance for the midrange and enterprise level and continue to work toward NAS/SAN convergence.
NEARLINE: We are combining and consolidating both companies' offerings and will continue to offer tape drive technologies including DLT, SDLT, AIT and Ultrium. In the high-end tape drive segment, we will offer both Ultrium and SDLT. STORAGE MANAGEMENT SOFTWARE: Our enterprise storage management strategy is to evolve Compaq's storage management intellectual property and integrate it with the HP OpenView Storage Area Manager suite. Our existing HP OpenView Omniback solutions are evolving from delivering backup and recovery to delivering life cycle data management. To maximize our business continuity offerings, we plan to continue to invest in and integrate our host- and array-based HA/replication software solutions. VIRTUALIZATION: A key focus area for the new storage organization is to consolidate and merge HP and Compaq technologies into more useful solutions that provide virtualization capabilities in multiple areas. We will offer a multi-level virtualization strategy and phased implementation plans, including the integration of HP and Compaq virtualization intellectual property into a common, multi-tier virtualization strategy. We will continue to ship SANlink and VersaStor technology, eventually merging SANlink IP with VersaStor. o SOFTWARE. HP plans to continue to invest in OpenView management solutions, Utility Data Center (UDC), Opencall telco solutions and J2EE and Microsoft .NET middleware stacks. OPENVIEW. HP will adopt the OpenView name for all appropriate management software and will integrate TeMIP into the OpenView family. The OpenView product line will focus on integrated management solutions, extended management reach for both network and IP devices and web services management. UTILITY DATA CENTER. HP will continue to invest in the Utility Data Center software by leveraging the Compaq Insight Manager and Adaptive Infrastructure offerings as well as Toptools. TELCO SOLUTIONS. For telco software, the new HP will consolidate both Compaq and HP's telecom software into the Opencall product family that will be used to develop, integrate and deliver voice, data and converged services. MIDDLEWARE. The new HP will be equally strong on UNIX, Windows(R) and Linux-based servers, requiring middleware solutions to support all platforms. HP intends to use key relationships that enhance the middleware stacks around both J2EE and .NET to deliver a comprehensive ecosystem for HP and partners' application infrastructure components and to help customers manage heterogeneous stack environments by providing interoperability though our services and solutions organizations.
o PERSONAL SYSTEMS. The new HP will provide a combination of personal systems technology from both HP and Compaq to deliver a portfolio of end-to-end products, global solutions and integrated services. BUSINESS PCS AND NOTEBOOKS. Business desktop PCs and notebooks will migrate to the Compaq platform over the next 9-12 months and both will carry the Compaq name. The HP Vectra products will be phased out in line with current published roadmaps, but we will continue to offer HP's e-pc line under the HP brand. The HP Omnibook products will continue to be offered through 2002. CONSUMER PCS AND NOTEBOOKS. We will continue to offer both the Compaq Presario(TM) and HP Pavilion lines of consumer desktop PCs and notebooks through all existing channels in regions where both brands are strong. In some countries, only one brand will be offered, depending on that country's specific requirements. WORKSTATIONS. We will incorporate Compaq's Windows NT workstations to form a comprehensive product line. HP will continue to drive 64-bit platform leadership with today's PA-RISC and upcoming workstations based on the Intel Itanium Processor Family. HP workstations will provide great value across the industry-leading 32- and 64-bit operations system environments: Windows, Linux and HP-UX. SMART HANDHELDS. The Compaq iPAQ(TM) Pocket PC, re-named the HP iPAQ Pocket PC, will be our smart handheld platform. Jornada products will be phased out of the market in 2002. HP will continue to innovate in wireless, mobility and voice technology. HP also will offer the iPAQ Blackberry device for end-to-end wireless e-mail solutions, under the HP brand. HOME AND WIRELESS NETWORKING. These solutions will be based on current Compaq products and re-branded HP. Our corporate networking solutions will range from wireless mobility solutions and industry-standard wireless LAN to Bluetooth solutions. For home networking, we will offer several choices, from Ethernet to wireless to phone line. THIN CLIENTS: HP plans continue the Compaq line of thin clients, which will be re-branded HP. o BUSINESS NETWORKING. HP will continue to deliver networking solutions with the HP Procurve product line of industry-standard Ethernet LAN products. o IMAGING AND PRINTING. HP develops and markets products in a broad range of printing and imaging categories including inkjet printers, all-in-one devices, laser printers, wide-format plotters, scanners, print servers and ink. For consumers, we offer products from capture devices like digital cameras and scanners to sharing products like photo printers. For businesses, we make networkable printers, large format printers and digital presses.
All imaging and printing categories and product lines remain as is, with the following exceptions: o Personal inkjet printers, all-in-ones and scanners. HP will phase out the Compaq-branded products. o DIGITAL PROJECTORS: We will combine the HP and Compaq product line. Some specific products will be phased out. All digital projectors will be branded HP -- a transition that will occur during the next 12 months. --------------------------- FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This document contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If any of these risks or uncertainties materializes or any of these assumptions proves incorrect, the results of HP and its consolidated subsidiaries could differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including any projections of earnings, revenues, margins, synergies, accretion or other financial items; statements about the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations, including the execution of integration and restructuring plans and product roadmap decisions or plans; statements regarding future economic conditions or performance; statements of belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. The risks, uncertainties and assumptions referred to above include employee management issues; the timely development, production and acceptance of products and services and their feature sets; the challenge of managing asset levels, including inventory; the flow of products into third-party distribution channels; the difficulty of keeping expense growth at modest levels; the challenges of integration and restructuring associated with the merger or other planned acquisitions and the challenges of achieving anticipated synergies; the assumption of maintaining revenues on a combined company basis; and other risks that are described from time to time in HP's Securities and Exchange Commission reports, including but not limited to HP's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2002 and reports filed subsequent to HP's Annual Report on Form 10-K, as amended on January 30, 2002, for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2001. HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements.


