FILE:HPQ/HPQ-8K-20051117160607.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
Item 2.02      Results of Operations and Financial Condition
Item 8.01      Other Events
Item 9.01      Financial Statements and Exhibits
SIGNATURE
EXHIBIT INDEX
Exhibit 99.1     Press Release and Furnished Financial Tables
Exhibit 99.2     Filed Financial Tables
        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.

PALO ALTO, Calif., Nov. 17, 2005  HP today reported financial results for its fourth fiscal quarter ended Oct. 31, 2005, showing net revenue increased 7% year-over-year to $22.9 billion. Non-GAAPoperating profit was $1.7 billion, with non-GAAP diluted earnings per share (EPS) of $0.51, up from $0.41 in the prior-year period. Non-GAAP financial information for the fourth quarter excludes $1.1 billion of adjustments on an after-tax basis, or $0.37 per diluted share, related primarily to restructuring-related costs and amortization of purchased intangibles, offset by a pension curtailment credit. GAAP operating profit was $232 million and GAAP diluted EPS was $0.14 per share, down from $0.37 in the prior-year period.
(1)
(1)
"HP delivered another strong quarterly performance, with balanced revenue growth, good cost discipline, improved margins in key businesses and strong cash flow," said Mark Hurd, HP chief executive officer and president. "We are pleased with our progress to date, but there is more work ahead of us."
During the quarter, on a year-over-year basis, revenue in the Americas grew 5% to $10.0 billion, Europe, the Middle East and Africa grew 8% to $9.1 billion, and Asia Pacific grew 12% to $3.8 billion. On a consolidated basis, when adjusted for the effects of currency, fourth quarter revenue grew 6% year-over-year.
Personal Systems Group (PSG) revenue grew 9% year-over-year to $7.1 billion, with unit shipments up 13%. On a year-over-year basis, desktop revenue increased 1% and notebook revenue grew 23%. Revenue for commercial clients, which includes workstations, grew 8% over the prior-year period, while revenue in consumer clients grew 14%. PSG reported an operating profit of $200 million, or 2.8% of revenue, up from a profit of $77 million, or 1.2% of revenue, in the prior-year period.
Personal Systems Group
Imaging and Printing Group (IPG) posted quarterly revenue of $6.8 billion, up 4% year-over-year. On a year-over-year basis, consumer hardware revenue decreased 4%, with printer unit shipments up 6%. Commercial hardware revenue grew 4% over the prior-year period, with printer unit shipments up 16%. Color laser unit shipments increased 41% year-over-year, and enterprise multifunction printer shipments increased 83%, reflecting continued momentum in key growth initiatives. Supplies revenue grew 7%. Operating profit was $896 million, or 13.2% of revenue, down from a profit of $1.1 billion, or 16.6% of revenue, in the prior-year period.
Imaging and Printing Group
Enterprise Storage and Servers (ESS) reported revenue of $4.5 billion, up 10% over the prior-year period. On a year-over-year basis, industry-standard server revenue increased 12%, networked storage revenue grew 17% and business-critical systems revenue declined 1%. ESS reported an operating profit of $405 million, or 9.1% of revenue, up from a profit of $100 million, or 2.5% of revenue, in the prior-year period.
Enterprise Storage and Servers
HP Services (HPS) revenue grew 6% year-over-year to $3.9 billion. On a year-over-year basis, Managed Services revenue grew 9%, Technology Services grew 4% and Consulting and Integration grew 11%. Operating profit was $322 million, or 8.3% of revenue, down from a profit of $375 million, or 10.2% of revenue, in the prior-year period.
HP Services
Software reported quarterly revenue of $311 million, an increase of 11% year-over-year, with revenue in HP OpenView and HP OpenCall increasing 16% and 3%, respectively. Software reported an operating profit of $27 million, or 8.7% of revenue, compared with a loss of $7 million in the prior-year period.
Software
HP Financial Services (HPFS) reported revenue of $514 million, an increase of 3% year-over-year. Finance volume and net portfolio assets declined 1% and 3% respectively. Operating profit was $52 million, or 10.1% of revenue, up from a profit of $19 million, or 3.8% of revenue, in the prior-year period.
Financial Services
Inventory ended the quarter at $6.9 billion, up $233 million sequentially and down $194 million year-over-year. Accounts receivable increased $1.1 billion sequentially and decreased $323 million over the prior-year period to $9.9 billion. HP's dividend payment of $0.08 per share in the fourth quarter resulted in cash usage of $229 million. In addition, HP utilized $1.4 billion of cash during the fourth quarter to repurchase stock. HP exited the quarter with $13.9 billion in gross cash, which includes cash and cash equivalents of $13.9 billion and short- and certain long-term investments of $36 million.
Asset management
First quarter FY06 non-GAAP earnings per share is expected to be in the range of $0.46 to $0.48, excluding $0.03 to $0.04 of stock-based compensation expense, or $0.42 to $0.44 including stock-based compensation expense.
Outlook
Full year FY06 non-GAAP earnings per share is expected to be in the range of $1.88 to $1.95, excluding approximately $0.13 of stock-based compensation expense, or $1.75 to $1.82 including stock-based compensation expense.
Non-GAAP earnings per share estimates for Q1 FY06 and full year FY06 exclude after-tax costs of approximately $0.04 per share and $0.14 per share respectively, primarily related to the amortization of purchased intangible assets.
More information on HP's quarterly earnings, including additional financial analysis and an earnings overview presentation, is available on HP's Investor Relations website at .
www.hp.com/hpinfo/investor/
HP's Q4 FY05 earnings conference call is accessible via an audio webcast at .
www.hp.com/hpinfo/investor/financials/quarters/2005/q4webcast.html
HP is a technology solutions provider to consumers, businesses and institutions globally. The company's offerings span IT infrastructure, global services, business and home computing, and imaging and printing. For the four fiscal quarters ended Oct. 31, 2005, HP revenue totaled $86.7 billion. More information about HP (NYSE, Nasdaq: HPQ) is available at .
About HP
www.hp.com
     All non-GAAP numbers have been adjusted to exclude certain items. A reconciliation of specific adjustments to GAAP results for this quarter and the prior periods is included in the table below titled: "Non-GAAP Consolidated Condensed Statements of Earnings." A description of HP's use of non-GAAP information is provided under "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information."
(1)
Use of Non-GAAP Financial Information To supplement HP's consolidated condensed financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, HP uses non-GAAP additional measures of operating results, net earnings and earnings per share adjusted to exclude certain costs, expenses, gains or losses it believes appropriate to enhance an overall understanding of HP's past financial performance and also its prospects for the future. These adjustments to HP's GAAP results are made with the intent of providing both management and investors a more complete understanding of the underlying operational results and trends and HP's marketplace performance. For example, the non-GAAP results are an indication of HP's baseline performance before gains, losses or other charges that are considered by management to be outside of HP's core business segment operational results. In addition, these non-GAAP results are among the primary indicators management uses as a basis for planning and forecasting future periods. The presentation of this additional information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for net earnings or diluted earnings per share prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States.
Forward-Looking Statements This press release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If the risks or uncertainties ever materialize or the assumptions prove incorrect, the results of HP may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including but not limited to any projections of revenue, margins, expenses, charges, earnings or other financial items; any statements of the plans, strategies, and objectives of management for future operations, including execution of any restructuring plans; any statements concerning the expected development, performance or market share relating to products or services; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Risks, uncertainties an d as sumptions include macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and events; execution and performance of contracts by suppliers, customers and partners; employee management issues; the challenge of managing asset levels, including inventory; the difficulty of aligning expense levels with revenue changes; assumptions related to pension and other post-retirement costs; and other risks that are described from time to time in HP's Securities and Exchange Commission reports, including but not limited to the risks described in HP's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 31, 2005 and other reports filed after HP's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2004. As in prior years, the financial information set forth in this release, including tax-related items, are estimates based on information available at this time. While HP believes these estimates to be meaningful, these amounts could differ materially from actual reported amounts in HP's 10-K. In particular, determining HP's actual tax balances and provisions as of October 31, 2005 and for the fiscal year then ended requires extensive internal and external review of tax data (including consolidating and reviewing the tax provisions of numerous domestic and foreign entities) which is being completed in the ordinary course of preparing HP's Form 10-K. HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements.
 2005 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. HP shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein. 11/2005



