FILE:HPQ/HPQ-8K-20061116165431.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))

Information about HP's use of non-GAAP financial information is provided under "Use of non-GAAP financial information" below.
During the quarter, on a year-over-year basis, revenue in the Americas grew 8% to $10.8 billion, revenue in Europe, the Middle East and Africa grew 7% to $9.7 billion, and revenue in Asia Pacific grew 6% to $4.0 billion. When adjusted for the effects of currency, revenue in the Americas grew 7%, revenue in Europe, the Middle East and Africa grew 3%, and revenue in Asia Pacific grew 7%.
Personal Systems Group (PSG) revenue grew 10% year-over-year to $7.8 billion, with unit shipments up 16%. On a year-over-year basis, notebook revenue grew 24% while desktop revenue was flat. Commercial client revenue grew 4% year-over-year, while Consumer client revenue increased 19%. Operating profit was $336 million, or 4.3% of revenue, up from a profit of $200 million, or 2.8% of revenue, in the prior year period.
Personal Systems Group
Imaging and Printing Group (IPG) revenue grew 7% year-over-year to $7.3 billion. On a year-over-year basis, supplies revenue grew 9%, commercial hardware revenue grew 8% and consumer hardware revenue grew 2%. Printer unit shipments increased 17% year-over-year, with consumer printer hardware units up 16% and commercial printer hardware units up 20%. Momentum in key growth initiatives continued, with all-in-one unit shipments up 22% year-over-year, appliance photo printers up 70%, color laser printer shipments up 40% and printer-based MFP shipments up 160%. HP Indigo Press printed page volume grew 41% over the prior year period. Operating profit was $1.1 billion, or 14.8% of revenue, up from a profit of $896 million, or 13.2% of revenue, in the prior year period.
Imaging and Printing Group
Enterprise Storage and Servers (ESS) reported revenue of $4.7 billion, up 4% over the prior year period. On a year-over-year basis, industry-standard server revenue increased 9%, with blade revenue growth of 38%. Networked storage revenue grew 1%, with revenue growth of 11% in the midrange EVA line offset by declines in the high-end array and tape businesses. Business critical systems revenue declined 4%, as Integrity systems growth of 77% was offset by declines in PA-RISC and Alpha. Operating profit was $502 million, or 10.7% of revenue, up from a profit of $404 million, or 9.0% of revenue, in the prior year period.
Enterprise Storage and Servers
HP Services (HPS) revenue increased 5% year-over-year to $4.1 billion. Revenue in Technology Services was flat over the prior year period, with Consulting and Integration revenue up 7% and Managed Services revenue up 16%. Operating profit was $505 million, or 12.4% of revenue, up from a profit of $322 million, or 8.3% of revenue, in the prior year period.
HP Services
Software revenue was $349 million, an increase of 14% year-over-year, with revenue in HP OpenView up 28% and revenue in HP OpenCall down 11%. Operating profit was $60 million, or 17.2% of revenue, up from a profit of $28 million, or 9.2% of revenue, in the prior year period. On Nov. 7, HP announced that it had closed the purchase of Mercury. The deal integrates Mercury's leading application management and delivery and IT governance capabilities with HP's broad portfolio of management solutions to create a new HP Software organization that will lead the industry in business technology optimization.
Software
HP Financial Services (HPFS) reported revenue of $545 million, an increase of 6% year-over-year. Financing volume increased 1% over the prior year period, and net portfolio assets grew 4%. Operating profit was $35 million, or 6.4% of revenue, down from a profit of $52 million, or 10.1% of revenue, in the prior year period.
Financial Services
Inventory ended the quarter at $7.8 billion, up $286 million sequentially and $873 million year-over-year. Accounts receivable grew $1.2 billion sequentially and increased $970 million over the prior year period to $10.9 billion. HP's dividend payment of $0.08 per share in the fourth quarter resulted in cash usage of $219 million. HP utilized $1.0 billion of cash during the fourth quarter to repurchase approximately 30 million shares of common stock. In addition, HP received approximately 13 million shares of common stock under the company's prepaid variable share purchase program. HP exited the quarter with $16.4 billion in gross cash, which includes cash and cash equivalents of $16.4 billion, short-term investments of $22 million, and certain long-term investments of $20 million.
Asset management
Net revenue for the full fiscal year 2006 was $91.7 billion, representing growth of 6% over the prior year period, or 7% when adjusted for the effects of currency. GAAP operating profit was $6.6 billion and GAAP diluted earnings per share (EPS) was $2.18 per share, up from $0.82 in the prior year period. Non-GAAP operating profit was $7.4 billion, with non-GAAP diluted EPS of $2.38, up from $1.62 in the prior year period. Non-GAAP financial information excludes $579 million of adjustments on an after-tax basis, or $0.20 per diluted share, related primarily to restructuring-related costs and amortization of purchased intangibles. GAAP and non-GAAP financial information include stock-based compensation expense in the current financial period only. Cash flow from operations for the full fiscal year 2006 was $11.4 billion, up from $8.1 billion in the prior year period.
Full year fiscal 2006
HP estimates Q1 FY07 revenue will be approximately $24.1 billion to $24.3 billion.
Outlook
First quarter FY07 GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in the range of $0.55 to $0.57, and non-GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in the range of $0.60 to $0.62. Non-GAAP diluted EPS estimates exclude after-tax costs of approximately $0.05 per share, related primarily to the amortization of purchased intangible assets. First quarter FY07 GAAP and non-GAAP diluted EPS estimates include approximately $0.04 of stock-based compensation expense.
HP estimates full year FY07 revenue will be approximately $97.0 billion.
FY07 GAAP diluted EPS expected to be in the range of $2.28 to $2.33, and FY07 non-GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in the range of $2.48 to $2.53. FY07 non-GAAP diluted EPS estimates exclude after-tax costs of approximately $0.20 per share, related primarily to the amortization of purchased intangible assets. Full year FY07 non-GAAP and GAAP diluted EPS estimates include approximately $0.14 of stock-based compensation expense.
More information on HP's quarterly earnings, including additional financial analysis and an earnings overview presentation, is available on HP's Investor Relations website at .
www.hp.com/hpinfo/investor/
HP's Q4 FY06 earnings conference call is accessible via an audio webcast at .
www.hp.com/hpinfo/investor/financials/quarters/2006/q4webcast.html
HP is a technology solutions provider to consumers, businesses and institutions globally. The company's offerings span IT infrastructure, global services, business and home computing, and imaging and printing. For the four fiscal quarters ended Oct. 31, 2006, HP revenue totaled $91.7 billion. More information about HP (NYSE, Nasdaq: HPQ) is available at .
About HP
www.hp.com
To supplement HP's consolidated condensed financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, HP provides non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and gross cash. HP also provides forecasts of non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. A reconciliation of the adjustments to GAAP results for this quarter, fiscal year-to-date, and prior periods is included in the tables below. In addition, an explanation of the ways in which HP management uses these non-GAAP measures to evaluate its business, the substance behind HP management's decision to use these non-GAAP measures, the material limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP measures, the manner in which HP management compensates for those limitations, and the substantive reasons why HP management believes that these non-GAAP measures provide useful information to investors is included under "Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures" after the tables below. This additional non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for operating profit, operating margin, net income, diluted earnings per share, or cash and cash equivalents prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Use of non-GAAP financial information
This news release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If the risks or uncertainties ever materialize or the assumptions prove incorrect, the results of HP may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including but not limited to any projections of revenue, margins, expenses, charges, earnings or other financial items; any statements of the plans, strategies, and objectives of management for future operations, including execution of any restructuring plans; any statements concerning the expected development, performance or market share relating to products or services; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions include macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and events; execution and performance of contracts by suppliers, customers and partners; employee management issues; the challenge of managing asset levels, including inventory; the difficulty of aligning expense levels with revenue changes; assumptions related to pension and other post-retirement costs; and other risks that are described from time to time in HP's Securities and Exchange Commission reports, including but not limited to the risks described in HP's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2005, HP's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 31, 2006 and other reports filed after that report. As in prior years, the financial information set forth in this release, including tax-related items, reflects estimates based on information available at this time. While HP believes these estimates to be meaningful, these amounts could differ materially from actual reported amounts in HP's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2006. In particular, determining HP's actual tax balances and provisions as of October 31, 2006 and for the fiscal year then ended requires extensive internal and external review of tax data (including consolidating and reviewing the tax provisions of numerous domestic and foreign entities) which is being completed in the ordinary course of preparing HP's Form 10-K. HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements
Note to editors: HP news releases are available via RSS feed at .
www.hp.com/hpinfo/rss.html
 2006 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. HP shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein. 11/2006
To supplement HP's consolidated condensed financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, HP provides non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and gross cash. HP also provides forecasts of non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. These non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP operating profit is earnings from operations. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP operating margin is operating margin. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP net income is net earnings. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP diluted earnings per share is diluted net earnings per share. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to gross cash is cash and cash equivalents. Reconciliations of each of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP information are included in the tables above.
Use and Economic Substance of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Used by HP
Non-GAAP operating profit and non-GAAP operating margin are defined to exclude the effects of any restructuring charges, charges relating to the amortization of purchased intangible assets, acquisition-related charges, pension curtailment gains and in-process research and development charges recorded during the relevant period. Non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share consist of net earnings or diluted net earnings per share excluding those same charges as well as any gains or losses on investments recorded during the relevant period. Non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share for HP's fiscal year ended October 31, 2005 also exclude the effects of a non-recurring tax expense associated with the repatriation of $14.5 billion under the provisions of the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004. In addition, non-GAAP net income and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share are adjusted by the amount of additional taxes or tax benefit associated with each non-GAAP item. HP's management uses these non-GAAP financial measures for purposes of evaluating HP's historical and prospective financial performance, as well as HP's performance relative to its competitors. HP's management also uses these non-GAAP measures to further its own understanding of HP's segment operating performance. HP believes that excluding those items mentioned above from these non-GAAP financial measures allows HP management to better understand HP's consolidated financial performance in relationship to the operating results of HP's segments, as management does not believe that the excluded items are reflective of ongoing operating results. More specifically, HP's management excludes each of those items mentioned above for the following reasons:
Gross cash is a non-GAAP measure that is defined as cash and cash equivalents plus short-term investments and certain long-term investments that may be liquidated within 90 days pursuant to the terms of existing put options or similar rights. HP's management uses gross cash for the purpose of determining the amount of cash available for investment in HP's businesses, funding strategic acquisitions, repurchasing stock and other purposes. HP's management also uses gross cash for the purposes of evaluating HP's historical and prospective liquidity, as well as to further its own understanding of HP's segment operating results. Because gross cash includes liquid assets that are not included in GAAP cash and cash equivalents, HP believes that gross cash provides a more accurate and complete assessment of HP's liquidity and segment operating results.
Material Limitations Associated with Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
These non-GAAP financial measures may have limitations as analytical tools, and these measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of HP's results as reported under GAAP. Some of the limitations in relying on these non-GAAP financial measures are:
Compensation for Limitations Associated with Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
HP compensates for the limitations on our use of non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and gross cash by relying primarily on its GAAP results and using non-GAAP financial measures only supplementally. HP also provides robust and detailed reconciliations of each non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP measure within this press release and in other written materials that include these non-GAAP financial measures, and HP encourages investors to review carefully those reconciliations.
Usefulness of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Investors
HP believes that providing non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net income, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and gross cash to investors in addition to the related GAAP measures provides investors with greater transparency to the information used by HP's management in its financial and operational decision-making and allows investors to see HP's results "through the eyes" of management. HP further believes that providing this information better enables HP's investors to understand HP's operating performance and to evaluate the efficacy of the methodology and information used by management to evaluate and measure such performance. Disclosure of these non-GAAP financial measures also facilitates comparisons of HP's operating performance with the performance of other companies in HP's industry that supplement their GAAP results with non-GAAP financial measures that are calculated in a similar manner.



