FILE:HPQ/HPQ-8K-20070816160645.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))

PALO ALTO, Calif., Aug. 16, 2007  HP today announced financial results for its third fiscal quarter ended July 31, 2007, with net revenue of $25.4 billion, representing growth of 16% year over year, or 12% when adjusted for the effects of currency.
GAAP operating profit was $2.1 billion and GAAP diluted earnings per share (EPS) was $0.66, up from $0.48 in the prior-year period. Non-GAAP operating profit was $2.3 billion, with non-GAAP diluted EPS of $0.71 up from $0.52 in the prior-year period. Non-GAAP financial information excludes $134 million of adjustments on an after-tax basis, or $0.05 per diluted share, related primarily to amortization of purchased intangibles. GAAP and non-GAAP financial information include all stock-based compensation expense in both current and prior-year periods.
HPs latest results demonstrate continued strength across each of our key businesses and geographies with our best revenue growth since 2000, said Mark Hurd, HP chairman and chief executive officer. We are executing increasingly well in creating demand for our innovative products and services, and we are continuing to become a more efficient organization.
Information about HPs use of non-GAAP financial information is provided under Use of non-GAAP financial information below.
During the quarter, on a year-over-year basis, revenue in the Americas grew 14% to $11.1 billion, revenue in Europe, the Middle East and Africa grew 16% to $9.7 billion, and revenue in Asia Pacific grew 22% to $4.6 billion. When adjusted for the effects of currency, revenue in the Americas grew 13%, revenue in Europe, the Middle East and Africa grew 9%, and revenue in Asia Pacific grew 18%. Revenue from outside of the United States was 65%, with revenue in the BRIC countries (Brazil, Russia, India and China) growing 35% over the prior year in the third quarter and now accounting for more than 8% of revenue.
Personal Systems Group (PSG) revenue grew 29% year over year to $8.9 billion, with unit shipments up 33% on a year-over-year basis. These results bring PSGs year-to-date revenue growth to nearly $5 billion. Notebook revenue grew 54% over the prior-year period, while desktop revenue grew 12%. Commercial client revenue grew 19% year over year, while Consumer client revenue increased 46%. Operating profit was $519 million, or 5.8% of revenue, up from $275 million, or 4.0% of revenue, in the prior-year period.
Personal Systems Group
Imaging and Printing Group (IPG) revenue grew 8% year over year to $6.8 billion. On a year-over-year basis, supplies revenue grew 9%, commercial hardware revenue grew 6% and consumer hardware revenue grew 10%. Printer unit shipments increased 10% year over year, with consumer printer hardware units up 8% and commercial printer hardware units up 17%. Momentum in key growth initiatives continued, with printer-based multi-function devices up 76%. Operating profit was $981 million, or 14.5% of revenue, up from $884 million, or 14.2% of revenue, in the prior-year period.
Imaging and Printing Group
Enterprise Storage and Servers (ESS) reported revenue of $4.5 billion, up 10% over the prior-year period. On a year-over-year basis, industry-standard server revenue increased 16%, with x86 blade revenue up 81%. Storage revenue grew 6%, with revenue growth of 7% in external disk storage, including 14% in the midrange EVA line, and partially offset by a decline in the tape business. Business critical systems revenue declined 3%, with Integrity systems growth of 71% offset by declines in PA-RISC and Alpha. Operating profit was $464 million, or 10.2% of revenue, up from $296 million, or 7.2% of revenue, in the prior-year period.
Enterprise Storage and Servers
HP Services (HPS) revenue increased 8% year over year to $4.2 billion. Revenue in Technology Services grew 5% over the prior-year period, while Consulting and Integration revenue rose 11% and Outsourcing Services revenue rose 11%. Operating profit was $430 million, or 10.3% of revenue, up from $364 million, or 9.4% of revenue, in the prior-year period.
HP Services
HP Software revenue grew 74% over the prior-year period to $554 million, led by strong growth from the businesses acquired in HPs purchase of Mercury Interactive. On a year-over-year basis, HP OpenView grew 14% excluding Mercury. Operating profit was $81 million, or 14.6% of revenue, up from $13 million, or 4.1% of revenue, in the prior-year period.
HP Software
HP Financial Services (HPFS) reported revenue of $582 million, an increase of 12% year over year. Financing volume and net portfolio assets increased 7% and 8% respectively, over the prior-year period. Operating margin was 6.7% of revenue, comparable to the same period last year.
Financial Services
HP generated $1.9 billion in cash flow from operations. Inventory ended the quarter at $8.0 billion, up $728 million sequentially and up $542 million year over year. Accounts receivable increased $268 million sequentially and increased $2.2 billion over the prior-year period to $11.8 billion. Accounts payable increased $168 million sequentially and $978 million over the prior-year period to $11.7 billion. HPs dividend payment of $0.08 per share in the second quarter resulted in cash usage of $209 million. HP utilized $2.5 billion of cash during the third quarter to repurchase approximately 55 million shares of common stock from the open market. HP exited the quarter with $12.5 billion in gross cash, which includes cash and cash equivalents of $12.5 billion, short-term investments of $40 million, and certain long-term investments of $23 million.
Asset management
HP estimates Q4 FY07 revenue will be approximately $27.0 billion to $27.2 billion.
Outlook
Fourth quarter FY07 GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in the range of $0.75 to $0.76, and non-GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in the range of $0.80 to $0.81. Non-GAAP diluted EPS estimates exclude after-tax costs of approximately $0.05 per share, related primarily to the amortization of purchased intangible assets.
HP estimates FY07 revenue will be approximately $103.0 billion to $103.2 billion.
FY07 GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in the range of $2.61 to $2.62, and FY07 non-GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in the range of $2.86 to $2.87. FY07 non-GAAP diluted EPS estimates exclude after-tax costs of approximately $0.25 per share, related primarily to the amortization of purchased intangible assets, in-process research and development charges, restructuring charges and pension curtailment gains.
More information on HPs quarterly earnings, including additional financial analysis and an earnings overview presentation, is available on HPs Investor Relations website at .
www.hp.com/investor/home
HPs Q3 FY07 earnings conference call is accessible via an audio webcast at .
www.hp.com/investor/q32007webcast
HP focuses on simplifying technology experiences for all of its customers  from individual consumers to the largest businesses. With a portfolio that spans printing, personal computing, software, services and IT infrastructure, HP is among the worlds largest IT companies, with revenue totaling $100.5 billion for the four fiscal quarters ended July 31, 2007. More information about HP (NYSE: HPQ) is available at .
About HP
www.hp.com
To supplement HPs consolidated condensed financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, HP provides non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net earnings, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and gross cash. HP also provides forecasts of non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. A reconciliation of the adjustments to GAAP results for this quarter and prior periods is included in the tables below. In addition, an explanation of the ways in which HP management uses these non-GAAP measures to evaluate its business, the substance behind HP managements decision to use these non-GAAP measures, the material limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP measures, the manner in which HP management compensates for those limitations, and the substantive reasons why HP management believes that these non-GAAP measures provide useful information to investors is included under Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures after the tables below. This additional non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for operating profit, operating margin, net earnings, diluted earnings per share, or cash and cash equivalents prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Use of non-GAAP financial information
This news release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If the risks or uncertainties ever materialize or the assumptions prove incorrect, the results of HP may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including but not limited to any projections of revenue, margins, expenses, earnings, tax provisions, cash flows, benefit obligations, share repurchases or other financial items; any statements of the plans, strategies, and objectives of management for future operations, including execution of cost reduction programs and restructuring plans; any statements concerning the expected development, performance or market share relating to products or services; any statements regarding pending investigations, claims or disputes; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions include macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and events; execution and performance of contracts by suppliers, customers and partners; the challenge of managing asset levels, including inventory; the difficulty of aligning expense levels with revenue changes; assumptions related to pension and other post-retirement costs; expectations and assumptions relating to the execution and timing of cost reduction programs and restructuring plans; the resolution of pending investigations, claims and disputes; and other risks that are described in HPs Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2007 and HPs other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including HPs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2006. As in prior quarters, the financial information set forth in this release, including tax-related items, reflects estimates based on information available at this time. While HP believes these estimates to be meaningful, these amounts could differ materially from actual reported amounts in HPs Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 31, 2007. In particular, determining HPs actual tax balances and provisions as of July 31, 2007 and for the fiscal quarter then ended requires extensive internal and external review of tax data (including consolidating and reviewing the tax provisions of numerous domestic and foreign entities) which is being completed in the ordinary course of preparing HPs Form 10-Q. HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements
Note to editors: More news from HP, including links to RSS feeds, is available at .
www.hp.com/hpinfo/newsroom/
 
 2007 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. HP shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein.
8/2007
To supplement HPs consolidated condensed financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, HP provides non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net earnings, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and gross cash. HP also provides forecasts of non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. These non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP operating profit is earnings from operations. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP operating margin is operating margin. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP net earnings is net earnings. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP diluted earnings per share is diluted net earnings per share. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to gross cash is cash and cash equivalents. Reconciliations of each of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP information are included in the tables above.
Use and Economic Substance of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Used by HP
Non-GAAP operating profit and non-GAAP operating margin are defined to exclude the effects of any restructuring charges, charges relating to the amortization of purchased intangible assets, pension curtailment and settlement gains and losses, and in-process research and development charges recorded during the relevant period. Non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share consist of net earnings or diluted net earnings per share excluding those same charges as well as any gains or losses on investments recorded for periods ending on or before October 31, 2006. In addition, non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share are adjusted by the amount of additional taxes or tax benefit associated with each non-GAAP item. HPs management uses these non-GAAP financial measures for purposes of evaluating HPs historical and prospective financial performance, as well as HPs performance relative to its competitors. HPs management also uses these non-GAAP measures to further its own understanding of HPs segment operating performance. HP believes that excluding those items mentioned above from these non-GAAP financial measures allows HP management to better understand HPs consolidated financial performance in relationship to the operating results of HPs segments, as management does not believe that the excluded items are reflective of ongoing operating results. More specifically, HPs management excludes each of those items mentioned above for the following reasons:
Gross cash is a non-GAAP measure that is defined as cash and cash equivalents plus short-term investments and certain long-term investments that may be liquidated within 90 days pursuant to the terms of existing put options or similar rights. HPs management uses gross cash for the purpose of determining the amount of cash available for investment in HPs businesses, funding strategic acquisitions, repurchasing stock and other purposes. HPs management also uses gross cash for the purposes of evaluating HPs historical and prospective liquidity, as well as to further its own understanding of HPs segment operating results. Because gross cash includes liquid assets that are not included in GAAP cash and cash equivalents, HP believes that gross cash provides a more accurate and complete assessment of HPs liquidity and segment operating results.
Material Limitations Associated with Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
These non-GAAP financial measures may have limitations as analytical tools, and these measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of HPs results as reported under GAAP. Some of the limitations in relying on these non-GAAP financial measures are:
Compensation for Limitations Associated with Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
HP compensates for the limitations on our use of non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net earnings, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and gross cash by relying primarily on its GAAP results and using non-GAAP financial measures only supplementally. HP also provides robust and detailed reconciliations of each non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP measure within this press release and in other written materials that include these non-GAAP financial measures, and HP encourages investors to review carefully those reconciliations.
Usefulness of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Investors
HP believes that providing non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net earnings, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and gross cash to investors in addition to the related GAAP measures provides investors with greater transparency to the information used by HPs management in its financial and operational decision-making and allows investors to see HPs results through the eyes of management. HP further believes that providing this information better enables HPs investors to understand HPs operating performance and to evaluate the efficacy of the methodology and information used by management to evaluate and measure such performance. Disclosure of these non-GAAP financial measures also facilitates comparisons of HPs operating performance with the performance of other companies in HPs industry that supplement their GAAP results with non-GAAP financial measures that are calculated in a similar manner.



