FILE:HPQ/HPQ-8K-20080219161214.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:

PALO ALTO, Calif., Feb. 19, 2008 
HP today announced financial results for its first fiscal quarter ended Jan. 31, 2008, with n
et revenue of $28.5 billion, up 13% from a year earlier and
up 8% when adjusted for the effects of currency.
In the first quarter, GAAP operating profit was $2.6 billion and GAAP diluted earnings per share (EPS) was $0.80, up from $0.55 in the prior-year period. Non-GAAP operating profit was $2.8 billion, with non-GAAP diluted EPS of $0.86 up from $0.65 in the prior-year period. Non-GAAP financial information excludes $158 million of adjustments on an after-tax basis, or $0.06 per diluted share, related primarily to amortization of purchased intangibles.
We are raising our guidance yet again, reflecting our confidence in anticipated cost reductions and share gains in key markets, said Mark Hurd, HP chairman and chief executive officer. We added more than 2,000 sales positions in the past year through acquisitions and hiring. HP remains well positioned for profitable growth as we continue to focus on our numerous cost initiatives and improve our market coverage.
 
Information about HPs use of non-GAAP financial information is provided under Use of non-GAAP financial information below.
Revenue in the Americas grew 8% on a year-over-year basis to $11.2 billion. Revenue grew 15% in Europe, the Middle East and Africa to $12.3 billion. Revenue grew 22% in Asia Pacific to $4.9 billion. When adjusted for the effects of currency, revenue in the Americas grew 7%, revenue in Europe, the Middle East and Africa grew 7%, and revenue in Asia Pacific grew 16%.  Revenue from outside of the United States in the first quarter was 69%, with revenue in the BRIC countries (Brazil, Russia, India and China) growing 35% over the prior-year period and accounting for 9% of total revenue.
Personal Systems Group
Personal Systems
Group (PSG) revenue grew 24%
year over year to $10.8 billion
, with unit shipments up
27% on a year-over-year basis. Notebook revenue for the quarter grew
37%
over the prior-year period, while desktop revenue grew
15%.
Commercial client revenue grew
22%
year over year, while Consumer client revenue increased
29%.  Operating profit
was $628 million, or 5.8% of revenue, up from $414 million, or 4.7% of revenu
e, in the prior-year period.
Imaging and Printing Group
Imaging and Printing Group (IPG) revenue grew 4% year over year to $7.3 billion. On a year-over-year basis, supplies revenue grew 6%, Commercial hardware revenue grew 7% and Consumer hardware revenue declined 5%. Printer unit shipments increased 1% year over year, with Consumer printer hardware units down 2% and Commercial printer hardware units up 13%. Momentum in key growth initiatives continued, with solid growth in both the Graphic Arts and the Enterprise businesses. Operating profit was $1.2 billion, or 15.7% of revenue, up from $1.1 billion, or 15.3% of revenue, in the prior-year period.
Enterprise Storage and Servers
Enterprise Storage and Servers (ESS) reported revenue of $4.8 billion, up 9% over the prior-year period fueled by ESS blades, which grew 81%. On a year-over-year basis, industry-standard server revenue increased 11%. Storage revenue grew 10%, with revenue growth of 14% in the midrange EVA line. Business critical systems revenue increased 1%, with Integrity systems growth of 37% offset by declines in PA-RISC and Alpha. Operating profit was $673 million, or 14.0% of revenue, up from $453 million, or 10.2% of revenue, in the prior-year period.
HP Services
HP Services (HPS) revenue increased 11% year over year to $4.4 billion. Revenue in Outsourcing Services grew 15%,  followed by Consulting and Integration and Technology Services, which grew 13% and 9%, respectively, over the prior-year period. Operating profit was $489 million, or 11.2% of revenue, up from $406 million, or 10.3% of revenue, in the prior-year period.
HP Software
HP Software revenue grew 11% over the prior-year period to $666 million, led by 19% growth in the Business Technology Optimization portfolio.
Operating profit was $51 million, or 7.7% of revenue, up from $18 million, or 3.0% of revenue, in the prior-year period.
Financial Services
HP Financial Services (HPFS) reported revenue of $642 million, an increase of 17% year over year. Financing volume and net portfolio assets increased 5% and 14%, respectively, over the prior-year period. Operating margin was 6.7% of revenue, up from 5.9% in the comparable period last year.
Asset management
HP generated $3.2 billion in cash flow from operations for the quarter. Inventory ended the quarter at $7.9 billion, down 6 days over the prior year. Accounts receivable of $12.4 billion were up 2 days over the prior-year period. Accounts payable ended the quarter at $11.2 billion down 6 days from the prior-year period. HPs dividend payment of $0.08 per share in the first quarter resulted in cash usage of $206 million. HP utilized $3.3 billion of cash during the first quarter to repurchase approximately 72 million shares of common stock from the open market. HP exited the quarter with $10.1 billion in gross cash, which includes cash and cash equivalents of $9.9 billion, short-term investments of $73 million, and certain long-term investments of $116 million.
Outlook
HP estimates Q2 FY08 revenue will be approximately $27.7 billion to $27.9 billion. Second quarter FY08 GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be approximately $0.77 to $0.78 and non-GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be approximately $0.83 to $0.84. Second quarter FY08 non-GAAP diluted EPS estimates exclude after-tax costs of approximately $0.06 per share, related primarily to the amortization of purchased intangibles.
HP estimates FY08 revenue will be approximately $113.5 billion to $114.0 billion.
FY08 GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in the range of $3.26 to $3.30, and FY08 non-GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in the range of $3.50 to $3.54. FY08 non-GAAP diluted EPS estimates exclude after-tax costs of approximately $0.24 per share, related primarily to the amortization of purchased intangibles.
 
More information on HPs quarterly earnings, including additional financial analysis and an earnings overview presentation, is available on HPs Investor Relations website at www.hp.com/investor/home.
More detailed information about the reclassification of HPs Business Intelligence and Information Management businesses from HP Services and ESS to HP Software and the reclassification of revenue among business units within PSG and IPG is included in the tables that follow this release. These reclassifications do not impact HPs previously reported consolidated net revenue, earnings from operations, net earnings or EPS.
HPs Q1 FY08 earnings conference call is accessible via an audio webcast at www.hp.com/investor/q12008webcast.
About HP
HP focuses on simplifying technology experiences for all of its customers  from individual consumers to the largest businesses. With a portfolio that spans printing, personal computing, software, services and IT infrastructure, HP is among the worlds largest IT companies, with revenue totaling $107.7 billion for the four fiscal quarters ended Jan. 31, 2008. More information about HP (NYSE: HPQ) is available at www.hp.com.
Use of non-GAAP financial information
To supplement HPs consolidated condensed financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, HP provides non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net earnings, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and gross cash. HP also provides forecasts of non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. A reconciliation of the adjustments to GAAP results for this quarter and prior periods is included in the tables below. In addition, an explanation of the ways in which HP management uses these non-GAAP measures to evaluate its business, the substance behind HP managements decision to use these non-GAAP measures, the material limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP measures, the manner in which HP management compensates for those limitations, and the substantive reasons why HP management believes that these non-GAAP measures provide useful information to investors is included under Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures after the tables below. This additional non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for operating profit, operating margin, net earnings, diluted earnings per share, or cash and cash equivalents prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Forward-looking statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If the risks or uncertainties ever materialize or the assumptions prove incorrect, the results of HP may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including but not limited to any projections of revenue, margins, expenses, earnings, tax provisions, cash flows, benefit obligations, share repurchases or other financial items; any statements of the plans, strategies, and objectives of management for future operations, including execution of cost reduction programs and restructuring plans; any statements concerning the expected development, performance or market share relating to products or services; any statements regarding pending investigations, claims or disputes; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions include macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and events; execution and performance of contracts by suppliers, customers and partners; the challenge of managing asset levels, including inventory; the difficulty of aligning expense levels with revenue changes; assumptions related to pension and other post-retirement costs; expectations and assumptions relating to the execution and timing of cost reduction programs and restructuring plans; the resolution of pending investigations, claims and disputes; and other risks that are described in HPs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2007 and HPs other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission. As in prior periods, the financial information set forth in this release, including tax-related items, reflects estimates based on information available at this time. While HP believes these estimates to be meaningful, these amounts could differ materially from actual reported amounts in HPs Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2008. In particular, determining HPs actual tax balances and provisions as of January 31, 2008 requires extensive internal and external
review of tax data (including consolidating and reviewing the tax provisions of numerous domestic and foreign entities), which is being completed in the ordinary course of preparing HPs Form 10-Q. HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements.
 
Note to editors: More news from HP, including links to RSS feeds, is available at www.hp.com/hpinfo/newsroom/.
 2008 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. HP shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein.
2/2008
To supplement HPs consolidated condensed financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, HP provides non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net earnings, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and gross cash. HP also provides forecasts of non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. These non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP operating profit is earnings from operations. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP operating margin is operating margin. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP net earnings is net earnings. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP diluted earnings per share is diluted net earnings per share. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to gross cash is cash and cash equivalents. Reconciliations of each of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP information are included in the tables above.  
Use and Economic Substance of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Used by HP
Non-GAAP operating profit and non-GAAP operating margin are defined to exclude the effects of any restructuring charges, charges relating to the amortization of purchased intangible assets, pension curtailment and settlement gains and losses, and in-process research and development charges recorded during the relevant period. Non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share consist of net earnings or diluted net earnings per share excluding those same charges. In addition, non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share are adjusted by the amount of additional taxes or tax benefit associated with each non-GAAP item. HPs management uses these non-GAAP financial measures for purposes of evaluating HPs historical and prospective financial performance, as well as HPs performance relative to its competitors. HPs management also uses these non-GAAP measures to further its own understanding of HPs segment operating performance. HP believes that excluding those items mentioned above
from these non-GAAP financial measures allows HP management to better understand HPs consolidated financial performance in relationship to the operating results of HPs segments, as management does not believe that the excluded items are reflective of ongoing operating results. More specifically, HPs management excludes each of those items mentioned above for the following reasons: 
Gross cash is a non-GAAP measure that is defined as cash and cash equivalents plus short-term investments and certain long-term investments that may be liquidated within 90 days pursuant to the terms of existing put options or similar rights. HPs management uses gross cash for the purpose of determining the amount of cash available for investment in HPs businesses, funding strategic acquisitions, repurchasing stock and other purposes. HPs management also uses gross cash for the purposes of evaluating HPs historical and prospective liquidity, as well as to further its own understanding of HPs segment operating results. Because gross cash includes liquid assets that are not included in GAAP cash and cash equivalents, HP believes that gross cash provides a more accurate and complete assessment of HPs liquidity and segment operating results.
Material Limitations Associated with Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
These non-GAAP financial measures may have limitations as analytical tools, and these measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of HPs results as reported under GAAP. Some of the limitations in relying on these non-GAAP financial measures are: 
Compensation for Limitations Associated with Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
HP compensates for the limitations on its use of non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net earnings, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and gross cash by relying primarily on its GAAP results and using non-GAAP financial measures only supplementally. HP also provides robust and detailed reconciliations of each non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP measure within this press release and in other written materials that include these non-GAAP financial measures, and HP encourages investors to review carefully those reconciliations.  
Usefulness of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Investors
 
HP believes that providing non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net earnings, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and gross cash to investors in addition to the related GAAP measures provides investors with greater transparency to the information used by HPs management in its financial and operational decision-making and allows investors to see HPs results through the eyes of management. HP further believes that providing this information better enables HPs investors to understand HPs operating performance and to evaluate the efficacy of the methodology and information used by management to evaluate and measure such performance. Disclosure of these non-GAAP financial measures also facilitates comparisons of HPs operating performance with the performance of other companies in HPs industry that supplement their GAAP results with non-GAAP financial measures that are calculated in a similar manner.


(a)     Certain fiscal 2008 organizational reclassifications have been reflected retroactively to provide improved visibility and comparability. For each of the quarters in fiscal year 2006, the reclassifications resulted in the transfer of revenue and operating profit among the Enterprise Storage and Servers, HP Services and HP Software segments within the Technology Solutions Group. There was no impact on the previously reported financial results for the other segments.
(a)     Certain fiscal 2008 organizational reclassifications have been reflected retroactively to provide improved visibility and comparability. For each of the quarters in fiscal year 2007, the reclassifications resulted in the transfer of revenue and operating profit among the Enterprise Storage and Servers, HP Services and HP Software segments within the Technology Solutions Group. There was no impact on the previously reported financial results for the other segments.
(a)     Certain fiscal 2008 organizational reclassifications have been reflected retroactively to provide improved visibility and comparability. For each of the quarters in fiscal year 2006, the reclassifications resulted in the transfer of revenue among the Enterprise Storage and Servers, HP Services and HP Software segments within the Technology Solutions Group. In addition, revenue was transferred among the business units within the Imaging and Printing Group and among the business units within the Personal Systems Group, but there was no change to the previously reported revenue for either segment as a whole. There was no impact on the previously reported financial results for the HP Financial Services and Corporate Investments segments.
(b)     The OpenView business unit was renamed as Business Technology Optimization and the OpenCall and Other business unit was renamed as Other effective in fiscal 2008. The renamed Other business unit includes primarily the OpenCall and Business Information Optimization products.
(a)     Certain fiscal 2008 organizational reclassifications have been reflected retroactively to provide improved visibility and comparability. For each of the quarters in fiscal year 2007, the reclassifications resulted in the transfer of revenue among the Enterprise Storage and Servers, HP Services and HP Software segments within the Technology Solutions Group. In addition, revenue was transferred among the business units within the Imaging and Printing Group and among the business units within the Personal Systems Group, but there was no change to the previously reported revenue for either segment as a whole. There was no impact on the previously reported financial results for the HP Financial Services and Corporate Investments segments.
(b)     The OpenView business unit was renamed as Business Technology Optimization and the OpenCall and Other business unit was renamed as Other effective in fiscal 2008. The renamed Other business unit includes primarily the OpenCall and Business Information Optimization products.


