FILE:HPQ/HPQ-8K-20090519160858.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:

PALO ALTO, Calif., May 19, 2009  HP today announced financial results for its second fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2009, with net revenue of $27.4 billion, down 3% from a year earlier and up 3% when adjusted for the effects of currency.
In the second quarter, GAAP operating profit was $2.3 billion and GAAP diluted earnings per share (EPS) was $0.70, down from $0.80 in the prior-year period. Non-GAAP operating profit was $2.8 billion, with non-GAAP diluted EPS of $0.86, down from $0.87 in the prior-year period. Non-GAAP financial information excludes $382 million of adjustments on an after-tax basis, or $0.16 per diluted share, related primarily to amortization of purchased intangible assets, restructuring charges and acquisition-related charges. 
Disciplined focus on operational efficiencies and execution drove record cash flow, said Mark Hurd, HP chairman and chief executive officer.  Our services business continued to deliver strong profitability with an increased deal pipeline and the EDS integration tracking ahead of schedule.
Information about HPs use of non-GAAP financial information is provided under Use of non-GAAP financial information below. Unless otherwise noted, all growth rates included in the narrative below reflect year-over-year comparisons.
Revenue grew 9% in the Americas to $12.1 billion. Revenue declined 11% in Europe, the Middle East and Africa and 10% in Asia Pacific to $10.6 billion and $4.7 billion, respectively. When adjusted for the effects of currency, revenue grew 12% in the Americas while declining 2% in Europe, the Middle East and Africa and 5% in Asia Pacific. Revenue from outside of the United States in the second quarter accounted for 64% of total revenue, with revenue in the BRIC countries (Brazil, Russia, India and China) declining 12% over the prior-year period while accounting for 9% of total HP revenue.
Services revenue increased 99% to $8.5 billion due primarily to the EDS acquisition. Infrastructure Technology Outsourcing posted revenue of $3.8 billion while Technology Services, Application Services and Business Process Outsourcing posted revenue of $2.4 billion, $1.5 billion and $709 million, respectively. Operating profit was $1.2 billion, or 13.8% of revenue, up from $507 million, or 11.9% of revenue, in the prior-year period. The EDS integration is tracking ahead of plan.
Services
Enterprise Storage and Servers (ESS) reported total revenue of $3.5 billion, down 28%. Storage revenue declined 22% with the midrange EVA product line down 21%. Industry Standard Server revenue and Business Critical Systems revenue declined 29% each, while ESS blade revenue was down 12%. Operating profit was $250 million, or 7.2% of revenue, down from $655 million, or 13.7% of revenue, in the prior-year period.
Enterprise Storage and Servers
HP Software revenue declined 15% to $880 million. Business Technology Optimization and Other Software revenue declined 15% each. Operating profit was $157 million, or 17.8% of revenue, up from $104 million, or 10.0% of revenue, in the prior-year period.
HP Software
Personal Systems Group (PSG) posted flat unit shipments in a challenging environment and attained the leading market position in PCs in every region. PSG revenue declined 19% to $8.2 billion. Notebook revenue for the quarter was down 13%, while Desktop revenue declined 24%. Commercial client revenue was down 22%, while Consumer client revenue decreased 16%. Operating profit was $374 million, or 4.6% of revenue, down from $544 million, or 5.4% of revenue, in the prior-year period.
Personal Systems Group
Imaging and Printing Group (IPG) revenue declined 23% to $5.9 billion. Supplies revenue was down 14% due in part to channel inventory realignment, while Commercial hardware revenue and Consumer hardware revenue declined 40% and 31%, respectively. Printer unit shipments decreased 27%, with Commercial printer hardware units down 36% and Consumer printer hardware units down 23%. Operating profit was $1.1 billion, or 18.2% of revenue, versus $1.2 billion, or 16.0% of revenue, in the prior-year period.
Imaging and Printing Group
HP Financial Services (HPFS) reported revenue of $641 million, down 6% from the prior-year period. Financing volume increased 7%, and net portfolio assets declined 1%. Operating margin was 7.2% of revenue, up from 6.9% in the prior-year period.
HP Financial Services
HP generated $5.0 billion in cash flow from operations for the second quarter. Inventory ended the quarter at $5.7 billion, down 7 days. Accounts receivable of $14.7 billion was up 5 days. Accounts payable ended the quarter at $11.4 billion, down 6 days. HPs dividend payment of $0.08 per share in the second quarter resulted in cash usage of $192 million. HP utilized $801 million of cash during the second quarter to repurchase approximately 24 million shares of common stock in the open market. HP exited the quarter with $13.0 billion in gross cash.
Asset management
HP expects third quarter FY09 revenue to be approximately flat to down 2 percent sequentially. Third quarter FY09 non-GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be approximately $0.88 to $0.90. Third quarter FY09 non-GAAP diluted EPS estimates exclude after-tax costs of approximately $0.22 to $0.24 per share, related primarily to the amortization of purchased intangibles and restructuring charges. On a GAAP basis, third quarter FY09 diluted EPS is expected to be approximately $0.64 to $0.68.
Outlook
HP estimates full-year FY09 revenue will decline approximately 4 to 5 percent from the prior-year period. Full year FY09 non-GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be approximately $3.76 to $3.88. FY09 non-GAAP diluted EPS estimates exclude after-tax costs of approximately $0.72 to $0.74 per share, related primarily to the amortization of purchased intangibles and restructuring charges. On a GAAP basis, full year FY09 diluted EPS is expected to be approximately $3.02 to $3.16.
More information on HPs quarterly earnings, including additional financial analysis and an earnings overview presentation, is available on HPs Investor Relations website at www.hp.com/investor/home. HPs Q2 FY09 earnings conference call is accessible via an audio webcast at www.hp.com/investor/q22009webcast.
HP, the worlds largest technology company, simplifies the technology experience for consumers and businesses with a portfolio that spans printing, personal computing, software, services and IT infrastructure. More information about HP (NYSE: HPQ) is available at http://www.hp.com/.
About HP
To supplement HPs consolidated condensed financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, HP provides non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net earnings, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and gross cash. HP also provides forecasts of non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. A reconciliation of the adjustments to GAAP results for this quarter and prior periods is included in the tables below. In addition, an explanation of the ways in which HP management uses these non-GAAP measures to evaluate its business, the substance behind HP managements decision to use these non-GAAP measures, the material limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP measures, the manner in which HP management compensates for those limitations, and the substantive reasons why HP management believes that these non-GAAP measures provide useful information to investors is included under Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures after the tables below. This additional non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for operating profit, operating margin, net earnings, diluted earnings per share, or cash and cash equivalents prepared in accordance with GAAP.
Use of non-GAAP financial information
HP completed its acquisition of Electronic Data Services Corporation on August 26, 2008. Results of, and comparisons to, the three and six months ended April 30, 2008 do not include the results of operations of EDS for those prior periods.
EDS Acquisition
This news release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If the risks or uncertainties ever materialize or the assumptions prove incorrect, the results of HP may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including but not limited to any projections of revenue, margins, expenses, earnings, tax provisions, cash flows, benefit obligations, share repurchases, acquisition synergies, currency exchange rates or other financial items; any statements of the plans, strategies, and objectives of management for future operations, including execution of cost reduction programs and restructuring and integration plans; any statements concerning the expected development, performance or market share relating to products or services; any statements regarding current or future macroeconomic trends or events and the impact of those trends and events on HP and its financial performance; any statements regarding pending investigations, claims or disputes; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions include macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and events; execution and performance of contracts by HP and its suppliers, customers and partners; the challenge of managing asset levels, including inventory; the difficulty of aligning expense levels with revenue changes; assumptions related to pension and other post-retirement costs; expectations and assumptions relating to the execution and timing of cost reduction programs and restructuring and integration plans; the possibility that the expected benefits of business combination transactions may not materialize as expected; the resolution of pending investigations, claims and disputes; and other risks that are described in HPs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2008 and HPs other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including HPs Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2009. As in prior periods, the financial information set forth in this release, including tax-related items, reflects estimates based on information available at this time. While HP believes these estimates to be meaningful, these amounts could differ materially from actual reported amounts in HPs Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2009. In particular, determining HPs actual tax balances and provisions as of April 30, 2009 requires extensive internal and external review of tax data (including consolidating and reviewing the tax provisions of numerous domestic and foreign entities), which is being completed in the ordinary course of preparing HPs Form 10-Q. HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements.
Forward-looking statements
Note to editors: More news from HP, including links to RSS feeds, is available at http://www.hp.com/hpinfo/newsroom/.
 2009 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. HP shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein
(c)   Certain pursuit-related costs previously reported as Cost of sales have been realigned retroactively to Selling, general and administrative expenses due to the organizational realignments occurring within HP's service offerings portfolio.
(c)   Certain pursuit-related costs previously reported as Cost of sales have been realigned retroactively to Selling, general and administrative expenses due to the organizational realignments occurring within HPs service offerings portfolio.
(a)   In the second quarter of fiscal 2009, HP reclassified certain activity from Other accrued liabilities to Accounts payable as this better represents the nature of the activity. All prior periods have been revised to conform to current presentation.
(a)   Certain adjustments have been made to prior quarter amounts in order to conform to the current quarter presentation.
(a)   Certain fiscal 2009 organizational reclassifications have been reflected retroactively to provide improved visibility and comparability. For each of the quarters in fiscal year 2008, the reclassifications resulted in the transfer of revenue and operating profit among the Services, HP Software and Imaging and Printing Group financial reporting segments. In addition, certain previously allocated costs were reclassified to unallocated costs related to stock-based compensation expense. There was no impact on the previously reported financial results for the Enterprise Storage and Servers, Personal Systems Group, HP Financial Services and Corporate Investments segments.
(a)   Certain fiscal 2009 organizational reclassifications have been reflected retroactively to provide improved visibility and comparability. For each of the quarters in fiscal year 2008, the reclassifications resulted in the transfer of revenue and operating profit among the Services, HP Software and Imaging and Printing Group financial reporting segments. In addition, certain previously allocated costs were reclassified to unallocated costs related to stock-based compensation expense. There was no impact on the previously reported financial results for the Enterprise Storage and Servers, Personal Systems Group, HP Financial Services and Corporate Investments segments.
(a)   Certain fiscal 2009 organizational reclassifications have been reflected retroactively to provide improved visibility and comparability. For each of the quarters in fiscal year 2008, the reclassifications resulted in the transfer of revenue among the Services, HP Software and Imaging and Printing Group financial reporting segments. In addition, revenue was transferred among the business units within the Services, HP Software, Imaging and Printing Group, and Personal Systems Group segments. There was no impact on the previously reported financial results for the Enterprise Storage and Servers, HP Financial Services and Corporate Investments segments.
(b)   Infrastructure technology outsourcing, Application services, Business process outsourcing and Other business units were added to the Services business segment. In addition, Outsourcing services, Consulting and integration and EDS business units within Services were disintegrated in fiscal 2009.
(a)   Certain fiscal 2009 organizational reclassifications have been reflected retroactively to provide improved visibility and comparability. For each of the quarters in fiscal year 2008, the reclassifications resulted in the transfer of revenue among the Services, HP Software and Imaging and Printing Group financial reporting segments. In addition, revenue was transferred among the business units within the Services, HP Software, Imaging and Printing Group, and Personal Systems Group segments. There was no impact on the previously reported financial results for the Enterprise Storage and Servers, HP Financial Services and Corporate Investments segments.
(b)   Infrastructure technology outsourcing, Application services, Business process outsourcing and Other business units were added to the Services business segment. In addition, Outsourcing services, Consulting and integration and EDS business units within Services were disintegrated in fiscal 2009.
(a)   HPs basic earnings per share was calculated based on net earnings and the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the reporting period.
(b)   The diluted earnings per share included additional dilution from potential issuance of common stock, such as stock issuable pursuant to exercise of stock options, vesting of restricted stock units and conversion of debt, except when such issuances would be anti-dilutive.
(a)   HPs basic earnings per share was calculated based on net earnings and the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the reporting period.
(b)   The diluted earnings per share included additional dilution from potential issuance of common stock, such as stock issuable pursuant to exercise of stock options, vesting of restricted stock units and conversion of debt, except when such issuances would be anti-dilutive.
(a)   HPs basic earnings per share was calculated based on net earnings and the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the reporting period.
(b)   The diluted earnings per share included additional dilution from potential issuance of common stock, such as stock issuable pursuant to exercise of stock options, vesting of restricted stock units and conversion of debt, except when such issuances would be anti-dilutive.
(a)  HPs basic earnings per share was calculated based on net earnings and the weighted-average number of shares outstanding during the reporting period.
(b)  The diluted earnings per share included additional dilution from potential issuance of common stock, such as stock issuable pursuant to exercise of stock options, vesting of restricted stock units and conversion of debt, except when such issuances would be anti-dilutive.
To supplement HPs consolidated condensed financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, HP provides non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net earnings, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and gross cash. HP also provides forecasts of non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. These non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP operating profit is earnings from operations. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP operating margin is operating margin. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP net earnings is net earnings. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP diluted earnings per share is diluted net earnings per share. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to gross cash is cash and cash equivalents. Reconciliations of each of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP information are included in the tables above.
Use and Economic Substance of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Used by HP
Non-GAAP operating profit and non-GAAP operating margin are defined to exclude the effects of any restructuring charges, charges relating to the amortization of purchased intangible assets, acquisition-related charges and in-process research and development charges recorded during the relevant period. Non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share consist of net earnings or diluted net earnings per share excluding those same charges. In addition, non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share are adjusted by the amount of additional taxes or tax benefit associated with each non-GAAP item. HPs management uses these non-GAAP financial measures for purposes of evaluating HPs historical and prospective financial performance, as well as HPs performance relative to its competitors. HPs management also uses these non-GAAP measures to further its own understanding of HPs segment operating performance. HP believes that excluding those items mentioned above from these non-GAAP financial measures allows HP management to better understand HPs consolidated financial performance in relationship to the operating results of HPs segments, as management does not believe that the excluded items are reflective of ongoing operating results. More specifically, HPs management excludes each of those items mentioned above for the following reasons:
Gross cash is a non-GAAP measure that is defined as cash and cash equivalents plus short-term investments and certain long-term investments that may be liquidated within 90 days pursuant to the terms of existing put options or similar rights. HPs management uses gross cash for the purpose of determining the amount of cash available for investment in HPs businesses, funding strategic acquisitions, repurchasing stock and other purposes. HPs management also uses gross cash for the purposes of evaluating HPs historical and prospective liquidity, as well as to further its own understanding of HPs segment operating results. Because gross cash includes liquid assets that are not included in GAAP cash and cash equivalents, HP believes that gross cash provides a more accurate and complete assessment of HPs liquidity and segment operating results.
Material Limitations Associated with Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
These non-GAAP financial measures may have limitations as analytical tools, and these measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of HPs results as reported under GAAP. Some of the limitations in relying on these non-GAAP financial measures are:
Compensation for Limitations Associated with Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
HP compensates for the limitations on its use of non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net earnings, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and gross cash by relying primarily on its GAAP results and using non-GAAP financial measures only supplementally. HP also provides robust and detailed reconciliations of each non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP measure within this press release and in other written materials that include these non-GAAP financial measures, and HP encourages investors to review carefully those reconciliations.
Usefulness of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Investors
HP believes that providing non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net earnings, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and gross cash to investors in addition to the related GAAP measures provides investors with greater transparency to the information used by HPs management in its financial and operational decision-making and allows investors to see HPs results through the eyes of management. HP further believes that providing this information better enables HPs investors to understand HPs operating performance and to evaluate the efficacy of the methodology and information used by management to evaluate and measure such performance. Disclosure of these non-GAAP financial measures also facilitates comparisons of HPs operating performance with the performance of other companies in HPs industry that supplement their GAAP results with non-GAAP financial measures that are calculated in a similar manner.

EXHIBIT 99.2
(c)   Certain pursuit-related costs previously reported as Cost of sales have been realigned retroactively to Selling, general and administrative expenses due to the organizational realignments occurring within HP's service offerings portfolio.
(c)   Certain pursuit-related costs previously reported as Cost of sales have been realigned retroactively to Selling, general and administrative expenses due to the organizational realignments occurring within HPs service offerings portfolio.
(a)   In the second quarter of fiscal 2009, HP reclassified certain activity from Other accrued liabilities to Accounts payable as this better represents the nature of the activity. All prior periods have been revised to conform to current presentation.
(a)   Certain fiscal 2009 organizational reclassifications have been reflected retroactively to provide improved visibility and comparability. For each of the quarters in fiscal year 2008, the reclassifications resulted in the transfer of revenue and operating profit among the Services, HP Software and Imaging and Printing Group financial reporting segments. In addition, certain previously allocated costs were reclassified to unallocated costs related to stock-based compensation expense. There was no impact on the previously reported financial results for the Enterprise Storage and Servers, Personal Systems Group, HP Financial Services and Corporate Investments segments.
(a)   Certain fiscal 2009 organizational reclassifications have been reflected retroactively to provide improved visibility and comparability. For each of the quarters in fiscal year 2008, the reclassifications resulted in the transfer of revenue and operating profit among the Services, HP Software and Imaging and Printing Group financial reporting segments. In addition, certain previously allocated costs were reclassified to unallocated costs related to stock-based compensation expense. There was no impact on the previously reported financial results for the Enterprise Storage and Servers, Personal Systems Group, HP Financial Services and Corporate Investments segments.


