FILE:HPQ/HPQ-8K-20091123160659.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.1
News Release
 
 
 
PALO ALTO, Calif., Nov. 23, 2009  HP today announced financial results for its fourth fiscal quarter ended Oct. 31, 2009, with net revenue of $30.8 billion, down 8% from a year earlier and down 5% when adjusted for the effects of currency.
 
In the fourth quarter, GAAP diluted net earnings per share (EPS) were $0.99, compared with $0.84 in the prior-year period. Non-GAAP EPS were $1.14, compared with $1.03 in the prior-year period. Non-GAAP financial information excludes after-tax costs related primarily to the amortization of purchased intangibles, restructuring charges and acquisition-related charges of approximately $0.15 per share and $0.19 per share in the fourth fiscal quarter of 2009 and 2008, respectively.
 
HPs solid performance in Services drove record profit, and the accelerated pace in signings creates strong momentum going into 2010, said Mark Hurd, chairman and chief executive officer, HP.  Our operational execution and improving cost structure generated strong quarterly and year-end results.  We expect to outperform the market due to our significant scale, broad portfolio and market-leading position.
 
 
Information about HP's use of non-GAAP financial information is provided under "Use of non-GAAP financial information" below.
 
Full Year Fiscal 2009
Net revenue for the full fiscal year 2009 was $114.6 billion, down 3% compared with the prior-year period or up 1% when adjusted for the effects of currency. GAAP operating profit was $10.1 billion and GAAP diluted EPS was $3.14, down from $3.25 in the prior year. Non-GAAP operating profit was $12.6 billion, with non-GAAP diluted EPS of $3.85, up from $3.62 in the prior-year period. Non-GAAP financial information excludes $1.7 billion of adjustments on an after-tax basis, or $0.71 per diluted share, related to the amortization of purchased intangible assets, restructuring charges, acquisition-related charges and in-process research and development charges.
 
Relentless focus on driving efficiencies across the business has given HP a significant competitive advantage, said Cathie Lesjak, executive vice president and chief financial officer, HP. Our skill in executing strong acquisitions and integrating them seamlessly improves the value of our portfolio, strengthens the business and contributes to our ability to expand in key growth markets in the future.
 
Fourth quarter revenue declined 3% in the Americas to $13.6 billion. Revenue was down 17% in Europe, the Middle East and Africa and 1% in Asia Pacific to $11.7 billion and $5.4 billion, respectively. When adjusted for the effects of currency, revenue was down 1% in the Americas while declining 10% in Europe, the Middle East and Africa and 1% in Asia Pacific versus the prior-year period. Revenue from outside of the United States in the fourth quarter accounted for 64% of total revenue, with revenue in the BRIC countries (Brazil, Russia, India and China) declining 4% over the prior-year period while accounting for 10% of total HP revenue. China revenue increased more than 20% from the prior year.
 
Services
Services
revenue increased 8% to $8.9 billion. Infrastructure Technology Outsourcing reported revenue of $4.1 billion while Technology Services, Application Services and Business Process Outsourcing posted revenue of $2.5 billion, $1.5 billion and $778 million, respectively. Operating profit was $1.4 billion, or 16.2% of revenue, up from $945 million, or 11.4% of revenue, in the prior-year period. With the EDS integration tracking ahead of plan, services ended the fiscal year with strong momentum in signings and a significant number of new logo wins.
 
Enterprise Storage and Servers
Enterprise Storage and Servers (ESS) reported total revenue of $4.2 billion, down 17%. Storage revenue declined 20% with the midrange EVA product line down 23%. Industry Standard revenue declined 10% and Business Critical Systems revenue declined 33%, while ESS blade revenue was down 8%. Operating profit was $481 million, or 11.4% of revenue, down from $705 million, or 13.9% of revenue, in the prior-year period.
Server
 
HP Software
revenue declined 16% to $967 million. Business Technology Optimization revenue declined 16% and Other Software revenue declined 15% over the prior-year period. Operating profit was $234 million, or 24.2% of revenue, up from $211 million, or 18.4% of revenue, in the prior-year period.
HP Software
 
 
 
 
 
Personal Systems Group
Personal Systems Group (PSG) posted an increase of unit shipments of 8% and maintained the leading market share position in PCs worldwide. PSG revenue declined 12% to $9.9 billion. revenue for the quarter was down 8%, while revenue declined 16%. Commercial client revenue was down 15%, while Consumer client revenue decreased 8%. Operating profit was $460 million, or 4.7% of revenue, down from $616 million, or 5.5% of revenue, in the prior-year period.
Notebook
Desktop
 
Imaging and Printing Group
Imaging and Printing Group (IPG) revenue declined 15% to $6.5 billion. Supplies revenue was down 8% while Commercial hardware revenue and Consumer hardware revenue declined 32% and 17%, respectively. unit shipments decreased 20%, with Commercial printer hardware units down 38% and Consumer printer hardware units down 14%. Operating profit was $1.2 billion, or 18.1% of revenue, versus $1.2 billion, or 15.3% of revenue, in the prior-year period.
Printer
 
HP Financial Services
(HPFS) reported revenue of $726 million, up 5% from the prior-year period. Financing volume increased 6%, and net portfolio assets increased 21%. Operating margin was 9.1% of revenue, up from 7.4% in the prior-year period.
HP Financial Services
Asset management
HP generated $3.4 billion in cash flow from operations for the fourth quarter. Inventory ended the quarter at $6.1 billion, down 4 days. Accounts receivable of $16.5 billion was up 3 days. Accounts payable ended the quarter at $14.8 billion, up 5 days. HPs dividend payment of $0.08 per share in the fourth quarter resulted in cash usage of $190 million. HP utilized $2.1 billion of cash during the fourth quarter to repurchase approximately 46 million shares of common stock in the open market. HP exited the quarter with $13.4 billion in gross cash.
 
Outlook
For the first fiscal quarter of 2010, HP estimates revenue of approximately $29.6 billion to $29.9 billion, GAAP diluted EPS in the range of $0.90 to $0.92, and non-GAAP diluted EPS in the range of $1.03 to $1.05. First fiscal quarter 2010 non-GAAP diluted EPS estimates exclude after-tax costs of approximately $0.13 per share, related primarily to the amortization of purchased intangibles, restructuring charges and acquisition-related charges.
 
HP estimates full fiscal year 2010 revenue will be approximately $118.0 billion to $119.0 billion, up from its previous estimate of $117.0 billion to $118.0 billion. Full fiscal year 2010 GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in the range of $3.65 to $3.75, up from its previous estimate of $3.60 to $3.70, and non-GAAP diluted EPS is expected to be in the range of $4.25 to $4.35, up from its previous estimate of $4.20 to $4.30. Full fiscal year 2010 non-GAAP diluted EPS estimates exclude after-tax costs of approximately $0.60 per share, related primarily to the amortization of purchased intangibles, restructuring charges and acquisition-related charges. These estimates for both the first fiscal quarter and full fiscal year of 2010 do not reflect the potential impact of the acquisition of 3Com Corporation that HP announced on Nov. 11, 2009.
 
 
Adoption of new accounting pronouncements
In the fourth quarter, HP early adopted two recently released accounting standards related to revenue recognition, Accounting Standards Update (ASU) No. 2009-13 and ASU No. 2009-14 for transactions originating or materially modified in fiscal 2009. These accounting changes generally result in earlier revenue recognition than under previous guidance for certain deliverables in multiple-element arrangements. HP adopted these standards as of the beginning of fiscal 2009; therefore the previously reported quarterly results have been restated to reflect the impact of adoption.  
 
More information on HPs quarterly earnings, including additional financial analysis and an earnings overview presentation, is available on HPs Investor Relations website at .
www.hp.com/investor/home
 
HPs Q4 FY09 earnings conference call is accessible via an audio webcast at .
www.hp.com/investor/q42009webcast
 
About HP
HP creates new possibilities for technology to have a meaningful impact on people, businesses, governments and society. The worlds largest technology company, HP brings together a portfolio that spans printing, personal computing, software, services and IT infrastructure to solve customer problems. More information about HP (NYSE: HPQ) is available at .
http://www.hp.com
 
Use of non-GAAP financial information
To supplement HPs consolidated condensed financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, HP provides non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net earnings, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and gross cash. HP also provides forecasts of non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. A reconciliation of the adjustments to GAAP results for this quarter and prior periods is included in the tables below. In addition, an explanation of the ways in which HP management uses these non-GAAP measures to evaluate its business, the substance behind HP managements decision to use these non-GAAP measures, the material limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP measures, the manner in which HP management compensates for those limitations, and the substantive reasons why HP management believes that these non-GAAP measures provide useful information to investors is included under Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures after the tables below. This additional non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for operating profit, operating margin, net earnings, diluted earnings per share, or cash and cash equivalents prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
EDS acquisition
HP completed its acquisition of Electronic Data Systems Corporation on Aug. 26, 2008. Results of, and comparisons to, the three months ended Oct. 31, 2008 include the results of operations of EDS only for the period from Aug. 26, 2008 through Oct. 31, 2008.
 
 
Forward-looking statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If the risks or uncertainties ever materialize or the assumptions prove incorrect, the results of HP may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including but not limited to any projections of revenue, margins, expenses, earnings, tax provisions, cash flows, benefit obligations, share repurchases, acquisition synergies, currency exchange rates or other financial items; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations, including execution of cost reduction programs and restructuring and integration plans; any statements concerning the expected development, performance or market share relating to products or services; any statements regarding current or future macroeconomic trends or events and the impact of those trends and events on HP and its financial performance; any statements regarding pending investigations, claims or disputes; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions include macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and events; execution and performance of contracts by HP and its suppliers, customers and partners; the challenge of managing asset levels, including inventory; the difficulty of aligning expense levels with revenue changes; assumptions related to pension and other post-retirement costs; expectations and assumptions relating to the execution and timing of cost reduction programs and restructuring and integration plans; the possibility that the expected benefits of business combination transactions may not materialize as expected; the resolution of pending investigations, claims and disputes; and other risks that are described in HPs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2008 and HPs other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including HPs Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July, 31, 2009. As in prior periods, the financial information set forth in this release, including tax-related items, reflects estimates based on information available at this time. While HP believes these estimates to be meaningful, these amounts could differ materially from actual reported amounts in HPs Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2009. In particular, determining HPs actual tax balances and provisions as of October 31, 2009 requires extensive internal and external review of tax data (including consolidating and reviewing the tax provisions of numerous domestic and foreign entities), which is being completed in the ordinary course of preparing HPs Form 10-K. HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements.
 
Note to editors: More news from HP, including links to RSS feeds, is available at .
http://www.hp.com/hpinfo/newsroom/
 
 2009 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. The information contained herein is subject to change without notice. HP shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To supplement HPs consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, HP provides non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net earnings, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and gross cash. HP also provides forecasts of non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. These non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP operating profit is earnings from operations. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP operating margin is operating margin. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP net earnings is net earnings. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP diluted earnings per share is diluted net earnings per share. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to gross cash is cash and cash equivalents. Reconciliations of each of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP information are included in the tables above.
condensed
Use and Economic Substance of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Used by HP
Non-GAAP operating profit and non-GAAP operating margin are defined to exclude the effects of any restructuring charges, charges relating to the amortization of purchased intangible assets, acquisition-related charges and in-process research and development charges recorded during the relevant period. Non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share consist of net earnings or diluted net earnings per share excluding those same charges. In addition, non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share are adjusted by the amount of additional taxes or tax benefit associated with each non-GAAP item. HPs management uses these non-GAAP financial measures for purposes of evaluating HPs historical and prospective financial performance, as well as HPs performance relative to its competitors. HPs management also uses these non-GAAP measures to further its own understanding of HPs segment operating performance. HP believes that excluding those items mentioned above from these non-GAAP financial measures allows HP management to better understand HPs consolidated financial performance in relationship to the operating results of HPs segments, as management does not believe that the excluded items are reflective of ongoing operating results. More specifically, HPs management excludes each of those items mentioned above for the following reasons:
 
 
 
Gross cash is a non-GAAP measure that is defined as cash and cash equivalents plus short-term investments and certain long-term investments that may be liquidated within 90 days pursuant to the terms of existing put options or similar rights. HPs management uses gross cash for the purpose of determining the amount of cash available for investment in HPs businesses, funding strategic acquisitions, repurchasing stock and other purposes. HPs management also uses gross cash for the purposes of evaluating HPs historical and prospective liquidity, as well as to further its own understanding of HPs segment operating results. Because gross cash includes liquid assets that are not included in GAAP cash and cash equivalents, HP believes that gross cash provides a more accurate and complete assessment of HPs liquidity and segment operating results.
Material Limitations Associated with Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
These non-GAAP financial measures may have limitations as analytical tools, and these measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of HPs results as reported under GAAP. Some of the limitations in relying on these non-GAAP financial measures are:
 
 
 
 
 
Compensation for Limitations Associated with Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
HP compensates for the limitations on its use of non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net earnings, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and gross cash by relying primarily on its GAAP results and using non-GAAP financial measures only supplementally. HP also provides robust and detailed reconciliations of each non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP measure within this press release and in other written materials that include these non-GAAP financial measures, and HP encourages investors to review carefully those reconciliations.
 
Usefulness of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Investors
HP believes that providing non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net earnings, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and gross cash to investors in addition to the related GAAP measures provides investors with greater transparency to the information used by HPs management in its financial and operational decision-making and allows investors to see HPs results through the eyes of management. HP further believes that providing this information better enables HPs investors to understand HPs operating performance and to evaluate the efficacy of the methodology and information used by management to evaluate and measure such performance. Disclosure of these non-GAAP financial measures also facilitates comparisons of HPs operating performance with the performance of other companies in HPs industry that supplement their GAAP results with non-GAAP financial measures that are calculated in a similar manner.
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 


