FILE:HPQ/HPQ-8K-20100518160956.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
2
 
 
3
 
 
4
 

 
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
Second quarter revenue was up 11% in the Americas to $13.5 billion. Revenue was up 11% in Europe, the Middle East and Africa and up 19% in Asia Pacific to $11.8 billion and $5.5 billion, respectively. When adjusted for the effects of currency, revenue was up 9% in the Americas, up 7% in Europe, the Middle East and Africa and up 10% in Asia Pacific. Revenue from outside of the United States in the second quarter accounted for 66% of total HP revenue, with revenue in the BRIC countries (Brazil, Russia, India and China) increasing 25% while accounting for 10% of total HP revenue.
 
HP drove double-digit revenue growth and improving profits, contributing to our twentieth consecutive quarter of year-over-year operating margin expansion, said Cathie Lesjak, HP executive vice president and chief financial officer. With the improving demand environment, we are accelerating investments for growth while raising our full-year outlook.
 
Services
Services revenue increased 2% to $8.7 billion. Infrastructure Technology Outsourcing revenue increased 6%, while revenue in Technology Services and Business Process Outsourcing were roughly flat year over year. Application Services revenue was down 2% versus the prior-year period. Operating profit was $1.4 billion, or 15.9% of revenue, up from $1.2 billion, or 13.8% of revenue, in the prior-year period.
 
Enterprise Storage and Servers
Enterprise Storage and Servers (ESS) reported total revenue of $4.5 billion, up 31%. Industry Standard Server revenue increased 54%, while Storage revenue increased 16% with the midrange EVA product line up 3%. Business Critical Systems revenue declined 17%, while ESS blade revenue was up 45%. Operating profit was $571 million, or 12.6% of revenue, up from $250 million, or 7.2% of revenue, in the prior-year period.
 
HP Software
HP Software revenue declined 1% to $871 million. Business Technology Optimization revenue increased 3%, and Other Software revenue decreased 8%. Operating profit was $162 million, or 18.6% of revenue, up from $157 million, or 17.8% of revenue, in the prior-year period.
 
Personal Systems Group
Personal Systems Group (PSG) posted a 20% increase in unit shipments and maintained the leading market share position in PCs worldwide. PSG revenue increased 21% to $10.0 billion. Notebook revenue for the quarter was up 17%, while Desktop revenue increased 27%. Commercial client revenue was up 19%, while Consumer client revenue increased 25%. Operating profit was $465 million, or 4.7% of revenue, up from $378 million, or 4.6% of revenue, in the prior-year period.
 
Imaging and Printing Group
Imaging and Printing Group (IPG) revenue increased 8% to $6.4 billion. Supplies revenue was up 6%, while Commercial hardware revenue and Consumer hardware revenue increased 13% and 16%, respectively. Printer unit shipments increased 9%, with Commercial printer hardware units down 8% and Consumer printer hardware units up 15%. Operating profit was $1.1 billion, or 17.2% of revenue, versus $1.1 billion, or 18.2% of revenue, in the prior-year period.
 
 
2
 
 
Corporate Investments
ProCurve revenue increased 31%, and HP Networking overall increased 58% year-over-year including the impact of the 3Com acquisition.
 
HP Financial Services
HP Financial Services (HPFS) revenue increased 18% to $755 million. Financing volume increased 20%, and net portfolio assets increased 21%. Operating margin was 9.1%, up from 7.2% in the prior-year period.
 
Asset management
HP generated $3.1 billion in cash flow from operations for the second quarter. Inventory ended the quarter at $6.4 billion, flat year over year in days of inventory. Accounts receivable of $14.8 billion was down 5 days year-over-year. Accounts payable ended the quarter at $13.4 billion, up 2 days over the prior-year period.  HPs dividend payment of $0.08 per share in the second quarter resulted in cash usage of $196 million. HP also utilized $1.8 billion of cash during the quarter to repurchase approximately 35 million shares of common stock in the open market. HP exited the quarter with $14.3 billion in gross cash.
 
Outlook
For the third quarter of fiscal 2010, HP estimates revenue of approximately $29.7 billion to $30.0 billion, GAAP diluted EPS in the range of $0.87 to $0.89, and non-GAAP diluted EPS in the range of $1.05 to $1.07. Third quarter fiscal 2010 non-GAAP diluted EPS estimates exclude after-tax costs of approximately $0.18 per share, related primarily to the amortization of purchased intangibles, restructuring charges and acquisition-related charges.
 
HP expects full year fiscal 2010 revenue growth of approximately eight to nine percent. HP expects full year fiscal 2010 GAAP diluted EPS to be in the range of $3.76 to $3.81, down from its previous estimate of $3.79 to $3.86, and non-GAAP diluted EPS to be in the range of $4.45 to $4.50, up from its previous estimate of $4.37 to $4.44. Full year fiscal 2010 non-GAAP diluted EPS estimates exclude after-tax costs of approximately $0.69 per share, related primarily to the amortization of purchased intangibles, restructuring charges and acquisition-related charges.
 
The non-GAAP diluted EPS estimates for both the third quarter and the full year fiscal 2010 include the expected dilution associated with the proposed acquisition of Palm, Inc. that HP announced on April 28, 2010. However, HP has not included any revenue associated with the Palm acquisition in its revenue outlook for either the third quarter or the full year fiscal 2010.
More information on HPs quarterly earnings, including additional financial analysis and an earnings overview presentation, is available on HPs Investor Relations website at www.hp.com/investor/home.
 
HPs Q2 FY10 earnings conference call is accessible via an audio webcast at www.hp.com/investor/2010q2webcast.
 
 
 
3
 
About HP
HP creates new possibilities for technology to have a meaningful impact on people, businesses, governments and society. As the worlds largest technology company, HP brings together a portfolio that spans printing, personal computing, software, services and IT infrastructure to solve customer problems. More information about HP (NYSE: HPQ) is available at .
http://www.hp.com
 
 
Use of non-GAAP financial information
To supplement HPs consolidated condensed financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, HP provides non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net earnings, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and gross cash. HP also provides forecasts of non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. A reconciliation of the adjustments to GAAP results for this quarter and prior periods is included in the tables below. In addition, an explanation of the ways in which HP management uses these non-GAAP measures to evaluate its business, the substance behind HP managements decision to use these non-GAAP measures, the material limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP measures, the manner in which HP management compensates for those limitations, and the substantive reasons why HP management believes that these non-GAAP mea sures provide useful information to investors is included under Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures after the tables below. This additional non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for operating profit, operating margin, net earnings, diluted earnings per share, or cash and cash equivalents prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
Forward-looking statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If the risks or uncertainties ever materialize or the assumptions prove incorrect, the results of HP may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including but not limited to any projections of revenue, margins, expenses, earnings, tax provisions, cash flows, benefit obligations, share repurchases, currency exchange rates, the impact of acquisitions or other financial items; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations, including the execution of cost reduction programs and restructuring plans; any statements con cerning the expected development, performance or market share relating to products or services; any statements regarding current or future macroeconomic trends or events and the impact of those trends and events on HP and its financial performance; any statements regarding pending investigations, claims or disputes; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions include macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and events; execution and performance of contracts by HP and its suppliers, customers and partners; the challenge of managing asset levels, including inventory; the difficulty of aligning expense levels with revenue changes; assumptions related to pension and other post-retirement costs; expectations and assumptions relating to the execution and timing of cost reduction programs and restructuring plans; the resolution of pending investigations, claims and disputes; and other risks that are described in HPR 17;s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2009 and HPs other filings with the Securities and
 
 
4
 
 
Exchange Commission, including HPs Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2010.  As in prior periods, the financial information set forth in this release, including tax-related items, reflects estimates based on information available at this time. While HP believes these estimates to be meaningful, these amounts could differ materially from actual reported amounts in HPs Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2010. In particular, determining HPs actual tax balances and provisions as of April 30, 2010 requires extensive internal and external review of tax data (including consolidating and reviewing the tax provisions of numerous domestic and foreign entities), which is being completed in the ordinary course of preparing HPs Form 10-Q. HP assumes no obligation a nd does not intend to update these forward-looking statements.
 
 
 2010 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. The information contained herein is subject to change without notice.
The only warranties for HP products and services are set forth in the express warranty statements accompanying such products and services. Nothing herein should be construed as constituting an additional warranty. HP shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein.
 
5
 
 
 
 
6
 
 
7
 
 
8
 
 
9
 
 
 
10
 
 
11
 
 
 
 
12
 
 
 
13
 
 
 
14
 
 
15
 
 
16
 
 
17
 
 
18
 
 
19
 
 
To supplement HPs consolidated condensed financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, HP provides non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net earnings, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and gross cash. HP also provides forecasts of non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. These non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP operating profit is earnings from operations. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP operating margin is operating margin. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP net earnings is net earnings. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP diluted earnings per share is diluted net earnings per share. The GA AP measure most directly comparable to gross cash is cash and cash equivalents. Reconciliations of each of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP information are included in the tables above.
Use and Economic Substance of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Used by HP
Non-GAAP operating profit and non-GAAP operating margin are defined to exclude the effects of any restructuring charges, charges relating to the amortization of purchased intangible assets, acquisition-related charges and in-process research and development charges recorded during the relevant period. Non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share consist of net earnings or diluted net earnings per share excluding those same charges. In addition, non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share are adjusted by the amount of additional taxes or tax benefit associated with each non-GAAP item. HPs management uses these non-GAAP financial measures for purposes of evaluating HPs historical and prospective financial performance, as well as HPs performance relative to its competitors. HPs m anagement also uses these non-GAAP measures to further its own understanding of HPs segment operating performance. HP believes that excluding those items mentioned above from these non-GAAP financial measures allows HP management to better understand HPs consolidated financial performance in relationship to the operating results of HPs segments, as management does not believe that the excluded items are reflective of ongoing operating results. More specifically, HPs management excludes each of those items mentioned above for the following reasons:
 
20
 
Gross cash is a non-GAAP measure that is defined as cash and cash equivalents plus short-term investments and certain long-term investments that may be liquidated within 90 days pursuant to the terms of existing put options or similar rights. HPs management uses gross cash for the purpose of determining the amount of cash available for investment in HPs businesses, funding strategic acquisitions, repurchasing stock and other purposes. HPs management also uses gross cash for the purposes of evaluating HPs historical and prospective liquidity, as well as to further its own understanding of HPs segment operating results. Because gross cash includes liquid assets that are not included in GAAP cash and cash equivalents, HP believes that gross cash provides a more accurate and complete assessment of HPs liquidity and segment operating results.
Material Limitations Associated with Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
These non-GAAP financial measures may have limitations as analytical tools, and these measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of HPs results as reported under GAAP. Some of the limitations in relying on these non-GAAP financial measures are:
 
 
 
 
21
 
Compensation for Limitations Associated with Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
HP compensates for the limitations on its use of non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net earnings, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and gross cash by relying primarily on its GAAP results and using non-GAAP financial measures only supplementally. HP also provides robust and detailed reconciliations of each non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP measure within this press release and in other written materials that include these non-GAAP financial measures, and HP encourages investors to review carefully those reconciliations.
Usefulness of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Investors
HP believes that providing non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net earnings, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and gross cash to investors in addition to the related GAAP measures provides investors with greater transparency to the information used by HPs management in its financial and operational decision-making and allows investors to see HPs results through the eyes of management. HP further believes that providing this information better enables HPs investors to understand HPs operating performance and to evaluate the efficacy of the methodology and information used by management to evaluate and measure such performance. Disclosure of these non-GAAP financial measures also facilitates comparisons of HPs operating performance with the performance of other co mpanies in HPs industry that supplement their GAAP results with non-GAAP financial measures that are calculated in a similar manner.
 
22
 

 
EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
 
 
1
 
 
2
 
 
 
3
 
 
 
 
4
 
 
 
5
 


