FILE:HPQ/HPQ-8K-20100217160737.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation
of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
o
 
 
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
o
 
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
o
 
 
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
o
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
First quarter revenue was up 9% in the Americas to $13.6 billion. Revenue was up 1% in Europe, the Middle East and Africa and 26% in Asia Pacific to $12.1 billion and $5.4 billion, respectively. When adjusted for the effects of currency, revenue was up 7% in the Americas, down 1% in Europe, the Middle East and Africa and up 19% in Asia Pacific. Revenue from outside of the United States in the first quarter accounted for 65% of total HP revenue, with revenue in the BRIC countries (Brazil, Russia, India and China) increasing 41% over the prior-year period while accounting for 10% of total HP revenue.
 
 
"Solid performance across the business and disciplined execution on our cost initiatives contributed to strong growth in cash flow and EPS," said Cathie Lesjak, HP executive vice president and chief financial officer. "We will continue to invest for growth and leverage our scale and global position to take advantage of an improving demand environment."
 
 
Enterprise Storage and Servers
Enterprise Storage and Servers (ESS) reported total revenue of $4.4 billion, up 11%. Industry Standard revenue increased 27% while Storage revenue declined 3% with the midrange EVA product line down 5%. Business Critical Systems revenue declined 22%, while ESS blade revenue was up 24%. Operating profit was $552 million, or 12.6% of revenue, up from $406 million, or 10.3% of revenue, in the prior-year period.
Server
 
 
Imaging and Printing Group
Imaging and Printing Group (IPG) revenue increased 4% to $6.2 billion. Supplies revenue was up 1%, up 4% in constant currency, while Commercial hardware revenue and Consumer hardware revenue increased 4% and 21%, respectively. unit shipments increased 16%, with Commercial printer hardware units up 11% and Consumer printer hardware units up 18%. Operating profit was $1.1 billion, or 17.0% of revenue, versus $1.1 billion, or 18.5% of revenue, in the prior-year period.
Printer
 
 
Personal Systems Group
Personal Systems Group (PSG) posted a 26% increase in unit shipments and maintained the leading market share position in PCs worldwide. PSG revenue increased 20% to $10.6 billion. revenue for the quarter was up 25%, while revenue increased 16%. Commercial client revenue was up 16%, while Consumer client revenue increased 26%. Operating profit was $530 million, or 5.0% of revenue, up from $436 million, or 5.0% of revenue, in the prior-year period.
Notebook
Desktop
 
 
Services
revenue decreased 1% to $8.7 billion. Infrastructure Technology Outsourcing revenue increased 2% to $3.9 billion.  Technology Services revenue decreased 2% to $2.4 billion.  Application Services posted revenue of $1.5 billion and Business Process Outsourcing posted revenue of $734 million down 8% and 3%, respectively. Operating profit was $1.4 billion, or 15.8% of revenue, up from $1.1 billion, or 12.9% of revenue, in the prior-year period.
Services
 
 
HP Software
revenue was flat at $878 million. Business Technology Optimization revenue decreased 1% and Other Software revenue increased 1%. Operating profit was $167 million, or 19.0% of revenue, up from $140 million, or 15.9% of revenue, in the prior-year period.
HP Software
 
 
 
HP Financial Services
(HPFS) revenue increased 13% to $719 million. Financing volume increased 30%, and net portfolio assets increased 23%. Operating margin was 9.3% of revenue, up from 6.4% in the prior-year period.
HP Financial Services
 
 
Asset management
HP generated $2.4 billion in cash flow from operations for the first quarter. Inventory ended the quarter at $6.6 billion, down 6 days. Accounts receivable of $14.5 billion was down 4 days. Accounts payable ended the quarter at $13.6 billion, up 3 days. HPs dividend payment of $0.08 per share in the first quarter resulted in cash usage of $189 million. HP also utilized $2.7 billion of cash during the quarter to repurchase approximately 54 million shares of common stock in the open market. HP exited the quarter with $13.7 billion in gross cash.
 
 
Outlook
For the second quarter of fiscal 2010, HP expects revenue of approximately $29.4 billion to $29.7 billion, GAAP diluted EPS in the range of $0.89 to $0.91, and non-GAAP diluted EPS in the range of $1.03 to $1.05. Second quarter fiscal 2010 non-GAAP diluted EPS estimates exclude after-tax costs of approximately $0.14 per share, related primarily to the amortization of purchased intangibles, restructuring charges and acquisition-related charges.
 
HP estimates full year fiscal 2010 revenue will be approximately $121.5 billion to $122.5 billion, up from its previous estimate of $118.0 billion to $119.0 billion. HP expects full year fiscal 2010 GAAP diluted EPS to be in the range of $3.79 to $3.86, up from its previous estimate of $3.65 to $3.75, and non-GAAP diluted EPS to be in the range of $4.37 to $4.44, up from its previous estimate of $4.25 to $4.35. Full year fiscal 2010 non-GAAP diluted EPS estimates exclude after-tax costs of approximately $0.58 per share, related primarily to the amortization of purchased intangibles, restructuring charges and acquisition-related charges.
 
These estimates for both the second quarter and full year fiscal 2010 do not reflect the potential impact of the proposed acquisition of 3Com Corporation that HP announced on Nov. 11, 2009.
 
More information on HPs quarterly earnings, including additional financial analysis and an earnings overview presentation, is available on HPs Investor Relations website at .
www.hp.com/investor/home
 
HPs Q1 FY10 earnings conference call is accessible via an audio webcast at .
www.hp.com/investor/q12010webcast
 
 
About HP
HP creates new possibilities for technology to have a meaningful impact on people, businesses, governments and society. As the worlds largest technology company, HP brings together a portfolio that spans printing, personal computing, software, services and IT infrastructure to solve customer problems. More information about HP (NYSE: HPQ) is available at .
http://www.hp.com
 
 
Use of non-GAAP financial information
To supplement HPs consolidated condensed financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, HP provides non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net earnings, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and gross cash. HP also provides forecasts of non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. A reconciliation of the adjustments to GAAP results for this quarter and prior periods is included in the tables below. In addition, an explanation of the ways in which HP management uses these non-GAAP measures to evaluate its business, the substance behind HP managements decision to use these non-GAAP measures, the material limitations associated with the use of these non-GAAP measures, the manner in which HP management compensates for those limitations, and the substantive reasons why HP management believes that these non-GAAP measures provide useful information to investors is included under Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures after the tables below. This additional non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for operating profit, operating margin, net earnings, diluted earnings per share, or cash and cash equivalents prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
 
Forward-looking statements
This news release contains forward-looking statements that involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. If the risks or uncertainties ever materialize or the assumptions prove incorrect, the results of HP may differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements and assumptions. All statements other than statements of historical fact are statements that could be deemed forward-looking statements, including but not limited to any projections of revenue, margins, expenses, earnings, tax provisions, cash flows, benefit obligations, share repurchases, acquisition synergies, currency exchange rates or other financial items; any statements of the plans, strategies and objectives of management for future operations, including the execution of cost reduction programs and restructuring plans; any statements concerning the expected development, performance or market share relating to products or services; any statements regarding current or future macroeconomic trends or events and the impact of those trends and events on HP and its financial performance; any statements regarding pending investigations, claims or disputes; any statements of expectation or belief; and any statements of assumptions underlying any of the foregoing. Risks, uncertainties and assumptions include macroeconomic and geopolitical trends and events; execution and performance of contracts by HP and its suppliers, customers and partners; the challenge of managing asset levels, including inventory; the difficulty of aligning expense levels with revenue changes; assumptions related to pension and other post-retirement costs; expectations and assumptions relating to the execution and timing of cost reduction programs and restructuring plans; the resolution of pending investigations, claims and disputes; and other risks that are described in HPs Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended October 31, 2009 and HPs other filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.  As in prior periods, the financial information set forth in this release, including tax-related items, reflects estimates based on information available at this time. While HP believes these estimates to be meaningful, these amounts could differ materially from actual reported amounts in HPs Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended January 31, 2010. In particular, determining HPs actual tax balances and provisions as of January 31, 2010 requires extensive internal and external review of tax data (including consolidating and reviewing the tax provisions of numerous domestic and foreign entities), which is being completed in the ordinary course of preparing HPs Form 10-Q. HP assumes no obligation and does not intend to update these forward-looking statements.
 
 
Note to editors: More news from HP, including links to RSS feeds, is available at .
http://www.hp.com/hpinfo/newsroom/
 2010 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P. The information contained herein is subject to change without notice.
The only warranties for HP products and services are set forth inn the express warranty statements accompanying such products and services. Nothing herein should be constructed as constructing an additional warranty. HP shall not be liable for technical or editorial errors or omissions contained herein.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
To supplement HPs consolidated condensed financial statements presented on a GAAP basis, HP provides non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net earnings, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and gross cash. HP also provides forecasts of non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. These non-GAAP financial measures are not in accordance with, or an alternative for, generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP operating profit is earnings from operations. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP operating margin is operating margin. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP net earnings is net earnings. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to non-GAAP diluted earnings per share is diluted net earnings per share. The GAAP measure most directly comparable to gross cash is cash and cash equivalents. Reconciliations of each of these non-GAAP financial measures to GAAP information are included in the tables above.
Use and Economic Substance of Non-GAAP Financial Measures Used by HP
Non-GAAP operating profit and non-GAAP operating margin are defined to exclude the effects of any restructuring charges, charges relating to the amortization of purchased intangible assets, acquisition-related charges and in-process research and development charges recorded during the relevant period. Non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share consist of net earnings or diluted net earnings per share excluding those same charges. In addition, non-GAAP net earnings and non-GAAP diluted earnings per share are adjusted by the amount of additional taxes or tax benefit associated with each non-GAAP item. HPs management uses these non-GAAP financial measures for purposes of evaluating HPs historical and prospective financial performance, as well as HPs performance relative to its competitors. HPs management also uses these non-GAAP measures to further its own understanding of HPs segment operating performance. HP believes that excluding those items mentioned above from these non-GAAP financial measures allows HP management to better understand HPs consolidated financial performance in relationship to the operating results of HPs segments, as management does not believe that the excluded items are reflective of ongoing operating results. More specifically, HPs management excludes each of those items mentioned above for the following reasons:
 
 
 
Gross cash is a non-GAAP measure that is defined as cash and cash equivalents plus short-term investments and certain long-term investments that may be liquidated within 90 days pursuant to the terms of existing put options or similar rights. HPs management uses gross cash for the purpose of determining the amount of cash available for investment in HPs businesses, funding strategic acquisitions, repurchasing stock and other purposes. HPs management also uses gross cash for the purposes of evaluating HPs historical and prospective liquidity, as well as to further its own understanding of HPs segment operating results. Because gross cash includes liquid assets that are not included in GAAP cash and cash equivalents, HP believes that gross cash provides a more accurate and complete assessment of HPs liquidity and segment operating results.
Material Limitations Associated with Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
These non-GAAP financial measures may have limitations as analytical tools, and these measures should not be considered in isolation or as a substitute for analysis of HPs results as reported under GAAP. Some of the limitations in relying on these non-GAAP financial measures are:
 
 
 
Compensation for Limitations Associated with Use of Non-GAAP Financial Measures
HP compensates for the limitations on its use of non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net earnings, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and gross cash by relying primarily on its GAAP results and using non-GAAP financial measures only supplementally. HP also provides robust and detailed reconciliations of each non-GAAP financial measure to its most directly comparable GAAP measure within this press release and in other written materials that include these non-GAAP financial measures, and HP encourages investors to review carefully those reconciliations.
Usefulness of Non-GAAP Financial Measures to Investors
HP believes that providing non-GAAP operating profit, non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net earnings, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share and gross cash to investors in addition to the related GAAP measures provides investors with greater transparency to the information used by HPs management in its financial and operational decision-making and allows investors to see HPs results through the eyes of management. HP further believes that providing this information better enables HPs investors to understand HPs operating performance and to evaluate the efficacy of the methodology and information used by management to evaluate and measure such performance. Disclosure of these non-GAAP financial measures also facilitates comparisons of HPs operating performance with the performance of other companies in HPs industry that supplement their GAAP results with non-GAAP financial measures that are calculated in a similar manner.
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.2
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

EXHIBIT 99.3
 
 
 
 
 
 


