FILE:HPQ/HPQ-8K-20100806172953.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
   
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
   
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
   
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02.
             
Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
 
On August 6, 2010, Hewlett-Packard Company ("HP") issued a press release announcing the changes to its executive management and its Board of Directors discussed under Item 5.02 below and providing preliminary financial results for its fiscal quarter ended July 31, 2010. The text of this press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1.  The information in Exhibit 99.1 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and shall not be deemed incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
 
To supplement HP's historical and forecasted financial results presented on a GAAP basis, HP provides non-GAAP diluted earnings per share. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share is defined to exclude the effects of any restructuring charges, charges relating to the amortization of purchased intangible assets or acquisition-related charges recorded during the relevant period. In addition, non-GAAP diluted earnings per share are adjusted by the amount of additional taxes or tax benefit associated with each non-GAAP item. HP's management uses non-GAAP diluted earnings per share for purposes of evaluating and forecasting HP's financial performance. HP believes that providing non-GAAP diluted earnings per share to investors in addition to the related GAAP measure provides investors with greater transparency to the information used by HP's management in its financial and operational decision-making and allows investors to see HP's results "through the eyes" of management. Non-GAAP diluted earnings per share may have limitations as an analytical tool, and this additional non-GAAP financial information is not meant to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for diluted earnings per share prepared in accordance with GAAP.
 
Item 5.02.
             
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(b)
                                
On August 6, 2010, Mark V. Hurd, Chairman of the Board of Directors (the "Board") of HP and HP's Chief Executive Officer and President, resigned as Chairman, Chief Executive Officer and President of HP and as a member of the Board, effective immediately.
 
(c)
                                 
Effective as of that same date, the Board appointed Catherine A. Lesjak, HP's current Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, to serve as HP's interim Chief Executive Officer.  Ms. Lesjak, age 51, has served as Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of HP since January 2007.  Previously, she served as Senior Vice President from 2003 until December 2006 and as Treasurer from 2003 until March 2007.  Ms. Lesjak will continue to serve in her current position while serving as interim Chief Executive Officer.
 
The Board did not appoint an interim or successor chairman of the Board.
 
(e)
                                 
In connection with Mr. Hurd's resignation from HP, HP and Mr. Hurd entered into a Separation Agreement and Release (the "Separation Agreement") that provides Mr. Hurd, in exchange for signing a general release of claims in favor of HP, with (i) a severance payment of $12,224,693 under the HP Severance Plan for Executive Officers; (ii) an extension until September 7, 2010 of the expiration date of his outstanding options to purchase up to 775,000 shares of HP common stock that were vested as of the date of his resignation; (iii) pro-rata vesting and settlement, at the same time and on the same terms as other HP employees, of 330,177 performance-based restricted stock units granted to Mr. Hurd in January 17, 2008 based on actual HP performance during the three-year performance period ending on October 31, 2010; and (iv) settlement on December 11, 2010 of 15,853 time-based restricted stock units granted to Mr. Hurd on December 11, 2009 at a price equal to the lesser of (a) the closing price of HP's common stock on August 6, 2010 or (b) the per share closing trading price of HP common stock on December 11, 2010.  The value of both the pro-rata performance-based restricted stock units and the time-based restricted stock units to which Mr. Hurd is entitled is capped such that Mr. Hurd will not receive greater value in respect of those awards on their dates of settlement than what he would be entitled to assuming the closing price of HP's common stock on their respective settlement dates is the same as the closing price on August 6, 2010.
 
In addition to the foregoing, Mr. Hurd will receive additional benefits customarily provided by HP in connection with the departure of all U.S. employees, including eligibility to receive HP's continued group medical and dental coverage through the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1995, as amended, for up to 18 months.
 
The Separation Agreement, together with Mr. Hurd's Agreement Regarding Confidential Information and Proprietary Developments, which will continue in effect following his resignation, also contains various restrictive covenants, including covenants relating to non-solicitation, confidentiality, and cooperation.
 
The foregoing summary of the Separation Agreement does not purport to be complete and is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Separation Agreement, which is filed hereto as Exhibit 10.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 5.03.
             
Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year.
 
On August 6, 2010, the Board approved amendments to HP's Amended and Restated Bylaws (the "Bylaws") in connection with Mr. Hurd's resignation from the Board.  The amendments, which were effective upon the effectiveness of Mr. Hurd's resignation (i) amend Section 3.2 of Article III to reduce the size of the Board from 11 to ten directors
; (ii) revise various sections of the Bylaws to reflect that HP may, but is not required to, have a chairman of the Board; and (iii) amend Section 3.8 of Article III to permit the lead independent director to call special meetings of the Board in the absence of a chairman.
 
The preceding description is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the Bylaws, which are filed as Exhibit 3.1 to this report and are incorporated herein by reference.
 
Item 9.01.              Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
 
1.1
          
Registered Office
.  The registered office of Hewlett-Packard Company ("") will be fixed in the Certificate of Incorporation of HP.
HP
 
1.2
          
Other Offices
.  The Board of Directors may at any time establish branch or subordinate offices at any place or places where HP is qualified to do business.
 
2.1
          
Place of Meetings
.  Meetings of stockholders will be held at any place within or outside the State of Delaware designated by the Board of Directors.  In lieu of holding a stockholders' meeting at a designated place, the Board of Directors, in its sole discretion, may determine that any stockholders' meeting may be held solely by means of remote communication.  In the absence of any such designation, stockholders' meetings will be held at the registered office of HP.
 
2.2
          
Annual Meeting
.
 
(a)
          
The annual meeting of stockholders will be held each year on a date and at a time designated by the Board of Directors or its delegate.  At the meeting, directors will be elected, and any other proper business may be transacted.
 
(b)
          
At an annual meeting of the stockholders, only such nominations for director will be made and only such other business will be conducted as will have been properly brought before the meeting.  To be properly brought before an annual meeting, nominations and other business must be:  (i) specified in the notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto) given by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (ii) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, or (iii) otherwise properly brought before the meeting by a stockholder of record at the time of giving notice provided for in these Bylaws, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.2.
(c)
          
For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the secretary of HP and such other business must be a proper subject for stockholder action.  To be
timely, a stockholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of HP not later than the close of business on the ninetieth (90th) day nor earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120th) day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year's annual meeting; , , that in the event that no annual meeting was held in the previous year or the date of the annual meeting is more than thirty (30) days before or more than sixty (60) days after the anniversary date of the previous year's annual meeting, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so received not earlier than the close of business on the one hundred twentieth (120th) day prior to the annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of (x) the ninetieth (90th) day prior to the annual meeting and (y) the tenth (10) day following the date on which public announcement of the date of such meeting is first made.  For purposes of this Section 2.2, a "public announcement" will mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or a comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by HP with the Securities and Exchange Commission, or in a notice pursuant to the applicable rules of an exchange on which the securities of HP are listed.  In no event will the public announcement of an adjournment or postponement of a stockholders meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
provided
however
 
(d)
          
A stockholder's notice to the secretary will set forth as to each matter the stockholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting (other than director nominations, which are governed by paragraph (f) of this Section 2.2):  (1) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting, the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend the Bylaws of HP, the language of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting and any material interest in such business of the stockholder and the beneficial owner (within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "")), if any, on whose behalf the business is being proposed, (2) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the business is being proposed:  (A) the name and address, as they appear on HP's books, of the stockholder proposing such business, and the name and address of the beneficial owner, (B) the class and number of shares of HP which are owned of record by the stockholder and the beneficial owner as of the date of the notice, and the stockholder's agreement to notify HP in writing within five business days after the record date for the annual meeting of the class and number of shares of HP owned of record by the stockholder and the beneficial owner as of the record date for the meeting, and (C) a representation that the stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to propose such business, and (3) as to the stockholder giving the notice or, if the notice is given on behalf of a beneficial owner on whose behalf the business is being proposed, as to the beneficial owner:  (A) the class and number of shares of HP which are beneficially owned by the stockholder or beneficial owner as of the date of the notice, and the stockholder's agreement to notify HP in writing within five business days after the record date for the meeting of the class and number of shares of HP beneficially owned by the stockholder or beneficial owner as of the record date for the meeting, (B) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding with respect to the business between or among the stockholder or beneficial owner and any other person, including without limitation any agreements that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 5 or Item 6 of 1934 Act Schedule 13D (regardless of whether the requirement to file a Schedule 13D is applicable to the stockholder or beneficial owner) and the stockholder's agreement to notify HP in writing within five business days after
1934 Act
the record date for the annual meeting of any such agreement, arrangement or understanding in effect as of the record date for the meeting, and (C) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any derivative or short positions, profit interests, options, hedging transactions, and borrowed or loaned shares) that has been entered into as of the date of the stockholder's notice by, or on behalf of, the stockholder or beneficial owner, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss, manage risk or benefit from changes in the share price of any class of shares of HP, or increase or decrease the voting power of the stockholder or beneficial owner with respect to shares of HP, and the stockholder's agreement to notify HP in writing within five business days after the record date for such meeting of any such agreement, arrangement or understanding in effect as of the record date for the meeting.
Notwithstanding anything in these Bylaws to the contrary, no business will be conducted at any annual meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 2.2.  The chairman of the annual meeting may determine and declare, if the facts warrant, at the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting and in accordance with the provisions of this Section 2.2, and, if he or she should so determine, he or she will so declare at the meeting that any such business not properly brought before the meeting will not be transacted.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.2, unless otherwise required by law, if the stockholder does not provide the information required under clauses 2(B) and 3(A) through 3(C) of this Section 2.2(d) to HP within five business days following the record date for an annual meeting of stockholders or if the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the annual meeting to present the business described in the stockholder's notice delivered pursuant to this Section 2.2(d), such business shall not be transacted, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by HP.  For purposes of this Section 2.2, to be considered a qualified representative of the stockholder, a person must be a duly authorized officer, manager or partner of such stockholder or authorized by a writing executed by such stockholder (or a reliable reproduction or electronic transmission of the writing) delivered to HP prior to the proposing of the business at the meeting by the stockholder stating that the person is authorized to act for the stockholder as proxy at the meeting of stockholders.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, in order to include information with respect to a stockholder proposal in the proxy statement and form of proxy for an annual meeting, stockholders must provide notice as required by the regulations promulgated under the 1934 Act, and the foregoing notice requirements of this Section 2.2 will not apply to stockholders who have notified HP of their intention to present a stockholder proposal only pursuant to and in compliance with such regulations.
 
(e)
          
Only persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this paragraph (e) and the following paragraph (f) will be eligible for election as directors.  Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of HP may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders, or at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the notice for such meeting, by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or by any stockholder of record of HP at the time of giving notice provided for in these Bylaws, who is entitled to vote in the election of directors at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 2.2.
(f)
           
Nominations, other than those made by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, will be made pursuant to timely notice in writing to the secretary of HP in accordance with the time periods described in paragraph (c) of this Section 2.2 in the case of an annual meeting and paragraph (c) of Section 2.3 in the case of a special meeting.  Such stockholder's notice will set forth (i) as to each person, if any, whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a director:  (A) the name, age, business address and residence address of such person, (B) the principal occupation or employment of such person, (C) the class and number of shares of HP which are owned by such person, including shares beneficially owned and shares held of record, (D) any other information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for elections of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the 1934 Act (including without limitation such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement, if any, as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected), and (E) a written statement executed by such nominee acknowledging that, as a director of such corporation, such person will owe a fiduciary duty, under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, exclusively to HP and its stockholders; (ii) as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination is being made:  (A) the name and address, as they appear on HP's books, of the stockholder giving the notice, and the name and address of the beneficial owner, (B) the class and number of shares of HP which are owned of record by the stockholder and the beneficial owner as of the date of the notice, and the stockholder's agreement to notify HP in writing within five business days after the record date for the annual meeting of the class and number of shares of HP owned of record by the stockholder and the beneficial owner as of the record date for the meeting, and (C) a representation that the stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the meeting to present the nomination, and (iii) as to the stockholder giving the notice or, if the notice is given on behalf of a beneficial owner on whose behalf the nomination is being made, as to the beneficial owner:  (A) the class and number of shares of HP which are beneficially owned by the stockholder or beneficial owner as of the date of the notice, and the stockholder's agreement to notify HP in writing within five business days after the record date for the meeting of the class and number of shares of HP beneficially owned by the stockholder or beneficial owner as of the record date for the meeting, (B) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding with respect to the nomination between or among the stockholder or beneficial owner and any other person, including without limitation any agreements that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 5 or Item 6 of 1934 Act Schedule 13D (regardless of whether the requirement to file a Schedule 13D is applicable to the stockholder or beneficial owner) and the stockholder's agreement to notify HP in writing within five business days after the record date for the annual meeting of any such agreement, arrangement or understanding in effect as of the record date for the meeting, and (C) a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding (including any derivative or short positions, profit interests, options, hedging transactions, and borrowed or loaned shares) that has been entered into as of the date of the stockholder's notice by, or on behalf of, the stockholder or beneficial owner, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss, manage risk or benefit from changes in the share price of any class of shares of HP, or increase or decrease the voting power of the stockholder or beneficial owner with respect to shares of HP, and the stockholder's agreement to notify HP in writing within five business days after the record date for such meeting of any such agreement, arrangement or understanding in effect as of the record date for the meeting.  At the request of the Board of Directors or the chairman of the Board of Directors,
if any, any person nominated by a stockholder for election as a director will furnish to the secretary of HP that information required to be set forth in the stockholder's notice of nomination which pertains to the nominee and such other information as HP may reasonably require to determine the eligibility of the proposed nominee to serve as a director of HP.  No person will be eligible for election as a director of HP unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this paragraph (f).
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 2.2, unless otherwise required by law, if the stockholder does not provide the information required under clauses (ii)(B) and (iii)(A) through (iii)(C) of this Section 2.2(f) to HP within five business days following the record date for an annual or special meeting of stockholders or if the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the annual or special meeting to present the nomination, such nomination shall be disregarded, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by HP.
 
(g)
          
The chairman of the meeting may determine and declare, if the facts warrant, at the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the procedures prescribed by these Bylaws, and in such event the defective nomination will be disregarded.
 
2.3
          
Special Meeting
.
 
(a)
          
A special meeting of the stockholders may be called at any time by the Board of Directors, or by any of the following persons with the concurrence of a majority of the Board of Directors:  the chairman of the Board of Directors, if any, or the chief executive officer or the secretary, but such special meetings may not be called by any other person or persons except as provided in paragraph (b) of this Section 2.3.
 
(b)
          
A special meeting of stockholders shall be called by the Board of Directors upon written request to the secretary of one or more record holders of shares of stock of HP representing in the aggregate not less than twenty-five percent (25%) of the total number of shares of stock entitled to vote on the matter or matters to be brought before the proposed special meeting.  A request to the secretary shall be signed by each stockholder, or a duly authorized agent of such stockholder, requesting the special meeting and shall set forth a brief description of each matter of business desired to be brought before the special meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the special meeting and the information required in paragraph (d) or (f) of Section 2.2 of these Bylaws, as applicable.  A special meeting requested by stockholders shall be held at such date, time and place within or without the state of Delaware as may be fixed by the Board of Directors; , , that the date of any such special meeting shall be not more than ninety (90) days after the request to call the special meeting is received by the secretary.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a special meeting requested by stockholders shall not be held if the Board of Directors has called or calls for an annual meeting of stockholders to be held within ninety (90) days after the secretary receives the request for the special meeting and the Board of Directors determines in good faith that the business of such annual meeting includes (among any other matters properly brought before the annual meeting) the business specified in the request.  A stockholder may revoke a request for a special meeting at any time by written revocation delivered to the secretary, and if, following such revocation, there are un-revoked requests from stockholders holding in the aggregate less than the requisite number of shares
provided
however
entitling the stockholders to request the calling of a special meeting, the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may cancel the special meeting.  Business transacted at a special meeting requested by stockholders shall be limited to the matters described in the special meeting request; , that nothing herein shall prohibit the Board of Directors from submitting matters to the stockholders at any special meeting requested by stockholders.
provided
however
 
(c)
          
In the event a special meeting is called for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any stockholder entitled to vote in the election of directors may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be) for election to such position(s) as specified in the notice for such meeting, if the stockholder's notice required by paragraph (f) of Section 2.2 shall be delivered to the secretary of HP at the principal executive offices of HP not earlier than the close of business on the ninetieth (90th) day prior to the special meeting nor later than the close of business on the later of:  (i) the sixtieth (60th) day prior to the special meeting or (ii) the tenth (10th) day following the day on which public announcement is first made of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting.  In no event shall the public announcement (as defined in paragraph (c) of Section 2.2 above) of an adjournment or postponement of a special meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder's notice as described above.
 
(d)
          
Only such business will be considered at a special meeting of stockholders as will have been stated in the notice for such meeting.
 
2.4
          
Organization
.  Meetings of stockholders shall be presided over by the chairman of the Board of Directors, if any, or in his or her absence by a person designated by the Board of Directors, or, in the absence of a person so designated by the Board of Directors, by the chief executive officer, or in his or her absence by the chief financial officer, or in his or her absence by the secretary, if any, or in his or her absence by a chairman chosen at the meeting by the vote of a majority in interest of the stockholders present in person or represented by proxy and entitled to vote thereat.  The secretary, or in his or her absence, an assistant secretary, or, in the absence of the secretary and all assistant secretaries, a person whom the chairman of the meeting will appoint will act as secretary of the meeting and keep a record of the proceedings thereof.
 
The Board of Directors of HP will be entitled to make such rules or regulations for the conduct of meetings of stockholders as it will deem necessary, appropriate or convenient.  Subject to such rules and regulations of the Board of Directors, if any, the chairman of the meeting will have the right and authority to prescribe such rules, regulations and procedures and to do all such acts as, in the judgment of such chairman, are necessary, appropriate or convenient for the proper conduct of the meeting, including, without limitation, establishing an agenda or order of business for the meeting, rules and procedures for maintaining order at the meeting and the safety of those present, limitations on participation in such meeting to stockholders of record of HP and their duly authorized and constituted proxies, and such other persons as the chairman will permit, restrictions on entry to the meeting after the time fixed for the commencement thereof, limitations on the time allotted to questions or comments by participants and regulation of the opening and closing of the polls for balloting and matters which are to be voted on by ballot.  Unless and to the extent determined by the Board of Directors or the chairman of the meeting, meetings of stockholders will not be required to be held in accordance with rules of parliamentary procedure.
2.5
          
Notice of Stockholders' Meetings
.  All notices of meetings of stockholders will be sent or otherwise given in accordance with Section 2.6 of these Bylaws not less than ten (10) nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting.  The notice will specify the place (if any), date, and hour of the meeting and the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxyholders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at the meeting and (i) in the case of a special meeting, the general nature of the business to be transacted (no business other than that specified in the notice may be transacted) or (ii) in the case of the annual meeting, those matters which the Board of Directors, at the time of giving the notice, intends to present for action by the stockholders (but any matter properly may be presented at the meeting for such action).  The notice of any meeting at which directors are to be elected will include the name of any nominee or nominees who, at the time of the notice, the Board of Directors intends to present for election.  Any previously scheduled meeting of the stockholders may be postponed, and, except for meetings of stockholders called by the Board of Directors pursuant to paragraph (b) of Section 2.3 of these Bylaws (which meetings may be cancelled only on the terms provided in paragraph (b) of Section 2.3 of these Bylaws) or if the Certificate of Incorporation otherwise provides, any meeting of the stockholders may be cancelled, by resolution of the Board of Directors upon public notice given prior to the date previously scheduled for such meeting of stockholders.
 
2.6
          
Manner of Giving Notice; Affidavit of Notice
.  Notice of any meeting of stockholders will be given either personally, by mail, express mail, courier service or, with the actual or constructive consent of the stockholder entitled to receive such notice, by facsimile, electronic mail or other means of electronic transmission.  If sent by mail, express mail or courier service, such notice will be sent postage or charges prepaid and will be addressed to the stockholder at the address of that stockholder appearing on the books of HP or given by the stockholder to HP for the purpose of notice, and such notice will be deemed to have been given.  Notice given by electronic transmission pursuant to this subsection will be deemed given:  (a) if by facsimile telecommunication, when directed to a facsimile telecommunication number at which the stockholder has actually or constructively consented to receive notice; (2) if by electronic mail, when directed to an electronic mail address at which the stockholder has actually or constructively consented to receive notice; (3) if by posting on an electronic network together with separate notice to the stockholder of such specific posting, upon the later of (A) such posting and (B) the giving of such separate notice, and (4) if by any other form of electronic transmission, when directed to the stockholder.
 
An affidavit of the mailing or other means of giving any notice of any stockholders' meeting, executed by the secretary, assistant secretary or any transfer agent or mailing agent of HP giving the notice, will be prima facie evidence of the giving of such notice or report.
 
2.7
          
Quorum
.  The holders of a majority in voting power of the stock issued and outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, present in person or represented by proxy, will constitute a quorum at all meetings of the stockholders for the transaction of business except as otherwise provided by statute or the Certificate of Incorporation.  If, however, such quorum is not present or represented at any meeting of the stockholders, then either (i) the chairman of the meeting or
(ii) the stockholders by the vote of the holders of a majority of the stock present in person or represented by proxy at the meeting, will have power to adjourn the meeting from time to time in accordance with Section 2.8, each without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum is present or represented.  At such adjourned meeting at which a quorum is present or represented, any business may be transacted that might have been transacted at the meeting as originally noticed.
 
When a quorum is present at any meeting, the vote of the holders of a majority of the stock having voting power present in person or represented by proxy will decide any matter properly brought before such meeting, unless (i) the matter is one upon which, by express provision of the laws of the State of Delaware or of the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, a vote of a different number or voting by classes is required, in which case such express provision will govern and control the decision of the matter, or (ii) the matter is brought pursuant to the rules of an exchange upon which the securities of HP are listed, in which case such rules will determine the vote required.
 
If a quorum be initially present, the stockholders may continue to transact business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough stockholders to leave less than a quorum.
 
2.8
          
Adjourned Meeting; Notice
.  Any meeting of stockholders, annual or special, whether or not a quorum is present, may be adjourned for any reason from time to time by either (i) the chairman of the meeting or (ii) the stockholders by the vote of the holders of a majority of the stock represented at the meeting, either in person or by proxy.  In the absence of a quorum, no other business may be transacted at that meeting except as provided in Section 2.7 of these Bylaws.
 
When any meeting of stockholders, either annual or special, is adjourned to another time or place (if any), notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time and place, if any thereof and the means of remote communications, if any, by which stockholders and proxyholders may be deemed to be present in person and vote at such adjourned meeting are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken.  However, if a new record date for the adjourned meeting is fixed or if the adjournment is for more than thirty (30) days from the date set for the original meeting, then notice of the adjourned meeting will be given.  Notice of any such adjourned meeting will be given to each stockholder of record entitled to vote at the adjourned meeting in accordance with the provisions of Sections 2.5 and 2.6 of these Bylaws.  At any adjourned meeting HP may transact any business which might have been transacted at the original meeting.
 
2.9
          
Voting
.  The stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders will be determined in accordance with the provisions of Section 2.12 of these Bylaws.
 
Except as may be otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, by these Bylaws or as required by law, each stockholder will be entitled to one vote for each share of capital stock registered in such stockholder's name on the books of HP on the record date fixed for determination of stockholders entitled to vote at such meeting.
Any stockholder entitled to vote on any matter may vote part of such stockholder's shares in favor of the proposal and refrain from voting part or all of such stockholder's remaining shares or, except when the matter is the election of directors and plurality voting applies, may vote part or all of them against the proposal; but if the stockholder fails to specify the number of shares which the stockholder is voting affirmatively, it will be conclusively presumed that the stockholder's vote is with respect to all shares which the stockholder is entitled to vote.
 
2.10
        
Validation of Meetings; Waiver of Notice; Consent
.  The transactions of any meeting of stockholders, either annual or special, however called and noticed, and wherever held, will be as valid as though they had been taken at a meeting duly held after regular call and notice, if a quorum be present either in person or by proxy.
 
Attendance by a person at a meeting also will constitute a waiver of notice of and presence at that meeting, except when the person objects at the beginning of the meeting to the transaction of any business because the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.  Attendance at a meeting is not a waiver of any right to object to the consideration of matters required by law to be included in the notice of the meeting but not so included, if that objection is expressly made at the meeting.
 
2.11
        
Action by Written Consent
.  Subject to the rights of the holders of the shares of any series of Preferred Stock or any other class of stock or series thereof having a preference over the Common Stock as to dividends or upon liquidation, any action required or permitted to be taken by the stockholders of HP must be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting of stockholders of HP and may not be effected by any consent in writing by such stockholders.
 
2.12
        
Record Date for Stockholder Notice; Voting; Giving Consents
.  For purposes of determining the stockholders entitled to notice of any meeting or to vote thereat, the Board of Directors may fix, a record date, which will not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted by the Board of Directors and will not be more than sixty (60) days nor less than ten (10) days before the date of any such meeting, and in such event only stockholders of record on the date so fixed are entitled to notice and to vote, notwithstanding any transfer of any shares on the books of HP after the record date, except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, by these Bylaws, by agreement or by applicable law.
 
If the Board of Directors does not so fix a record date, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders will be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given, or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held.
 
A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders will apply to any adjournment of the meeting unless the Board of Directors fixes a new record date for the adjourned meeting, but the Board of Directors will fix a new record date if the meeting is adjourned for more than thirty (30) days from the date set for the original meeting.
 
The record date for any other purpose will be as provided in Section 8.1 of these Bylaws.
2.13
        
Proxies
.  Every person entitled to vote for directors, or on any other matter, shall have the right to do so either in person or by one or more agents authorized by a written proxy, which may be in the form of a facsimile or other means of electronic transmission, signed by the person and submitted to the secretary of HP or HP's proxy solicitor, but no such proxy will be voted or acted upon after three (3) years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period.  A proxy will be deemed signed if the stockholder's name is placed on the proxy (whether by manual signature, typewriting, facsimile signature or otherwise) by the stockholder or the stockholder's attorney-in-fact or, in the case of an electronically transmitted proxy, the submission has been properly authorized.  A duly executed proxy will be irrevocable if it states that it is irrevocable and if, and only as long as, it is coupled with an interest sufficient in law to support an irrevocable power.  A stockholder may revoke any proxy which is not irrevocable by attending the meeting and voting in person or by filing an instrument in writing revoking the proxy or by submitting another duly executed proxy bearing a later date with the secretary.
 
A proxy is not revoked by the death or incapacity of the maker unless, before the vote is counted, written notice of such death or incapacity is received by HP.
 
2.14
        
Inspectors of Election
.  Before any meeting of stockholders, the Board of Directors will appoint an inspector or inspectors of election to act at the meeting or its adjournment.  The number of inspectors will be either one (1) or three (3).  If any person appointed as inspector fails to appear or fails or refuses to act, then the chairman of the meeting may, and upon the request of any stockholder or a stockholder's proxy will, appoint a person to fill that vacancy.
 
Such inspectors will:
 
(a)
          
determine the number of shares outstanding and the voting power of each, the number of shares represented at the meeting, the existence of a quorum, and the validity of proxies;
 
(b)
          
receive votes and ballots;
 
(c)
          
hear and determine all challenges and questions in any way arising in connection with the votes and ballots submitted that may be resolved by an inspector of elections during a review and challenge process; and
 
(d)
          
count and tabulate all votes and ballots.
 
The inspectors of election will perform their duties impartially, in good faith, to the best of their ability and as expeditiously as is practical.  If there are three (3) inspectors of election, the decision, act or certificate of a majority is effective in all respects as the decision, act or certificate of all.  Any report or certificate made by the inspectors of election is prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein.
 
3.1
                                
Powers
.  Subject to the provisions of the General Corporation Law of Delaware and to any limitations in the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws relating to action required to be approved by the stockholders or by the outstanding shares, the business and affairs of HP will be managed and will be exercised by or under the direction of the Board of Directors.  In addition to the powers and authorities these Bylaws expressly confer upon them, the Board of Directors may exercise all such powers of HP and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by the General Corporation Law of Delaware or by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws required to be exercised or done by the stockholders.
 
3.2
                                
Number
.  The authorized number of directors will be not less than eight (8) nor more than seventeen (17).  Within such limits, the exact number of directors will be ten (10).
 
3.3
                                
Election and Term of Office of Directors
.  Except as provided in Section 3.4 of these Bylaws, at each annual meeting of stockholders, directors elected to succeed those directors whose terms then expire will be elected for a term of office to expire at the succeeding annual meeting of stockholders after their election, with each director to hold office until such director's successor will have been duly elected and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or removal.
 
Directors need not be stockholders unless so required by the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws, wherein other qualifications for directors may be prescribed.  Each director, including a director elected to fill a vacancy, will hold office until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or removal.
 
Election of directors at all meetings of the stockholders at which directors are to be elected will be by ballot.
 
Each director shall be elected by the vote of the majority of the votes cast with respect to the nominee at any meeting for the election of directors at which a quorum is present, , , that the directors shall be elected by a plurality of the shares represented in person or by proxy at any such meeting and entitled to vote on the election of directors and cast in the election of directors at any meeting of stockholders for which (i) the secretary of HP receives a notice that a stockholder has nominated a person for election to the Board of Directors in compliance with the advance notice requirements for stockholder nominees for director set forth in Section 2.2 of these Bylaws and (ii) such nomination has not been withdrawn by such stockholder on or prior to the tenth day preceding the date HP first mails its notice of meeting for such meeting to the stockholders.  For purposes of this Section, a majority of the votes cast means that the number of shares voted "for" a nominee must exceed the votes cast "against" such nominee's election.
provided
however
 
3.4
                                
Resignation and Vacancies
.  Any director may resign effective upon giving notice in writing or by electronic transmission to the chairman of the Board of Directors, if any, the chief executive officer, the secretary or the entire Board of Directors, unless the notice specifies a later time for that resignation to become effective; , , that if such notice is given
provided
however
 
by electronic transmission, such electronic transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which it can be determined that the electronic transmission was authorized by the director.  If the resignation of a director is effective at a future time, the Board of Directors, including such resigning director, may elect a successor to take office when the resignation becomes effective.  Acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.
 
Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation or by these Bylaws, vacancies on the Board of Directors may be filled by a majority of the remaining directors, even if less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director; however, a vacancy created by the removal of a director by the vote of the stockholders or by court order may be filled only by the affirmative vote of a majority of the voting power of shares represented and voting at a duly held meeting at which a quorum is present (which shares voting affirmatively also constitute a majority of the required quorum).  Each director so elected will hold office until the next annual meeting of the stockholders and until a successor has been elected and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or removal.
 
Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws:
 
(i)
                                    
Vacancies and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors elected by all of the stockholders having the right to vote as a single class may be filled by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or by a sole remaining director.
 
(ii)
                                 
Whenever the holders of any class or classes of stock or series thereof are entitled to elect one or more directors by the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation, vacancies and newly created directorships of such class or classes or series may be filled by a majority of the directors elected by such class or classes or series thereof then in office, or by a sole remaining director so elected.
 
Any directors chosen pursuant to this Section 3.4 will hold office for a term expiring at the next annual meeting of stockholders and until such director's successor will have been duly elected and qualified or until such director's earlier resignation or removal.
 
If at any time, by reason of death or resignation or other cause, HP should have no directors in office, then any officer or any stockholder or an executor, administrator, trustee or guardian of a stockholder, or other fiduciary entrusted with like responsibility for the person or estate of a stockholder, may call a special meeting of stockholders in accordance with the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, or may apply to the Court of Chancery for a decree summarily ordering an election as provided in Section 211 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
 
If, at the time of filling any vacancy or any newly created directorship, the directors then in office constitute less than a majority of the whole Board of Directors (as constituted immediately prior to any such increase), then the Court of Chancery may, upon application of any stockholder or stockholders holding at least ten percent (10%) of the total number of the then outstanding shares having the right to vote for such directors, summarily order an election to be held to fill any such vacancies or newly created directorships, or to replace the directors chosen by the directors then in office as aforesaid, which election will be governed by the provisions of Section 211 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware as far as applicable.
3.5
                                
Removal
.  Unless otherwise restricted by statute or by the Certificate of Incorporation, any director or the entire Board of Directors may be removed, with or without cause, by the holders of a majority of the shares then entitled to vote at an election of directors; , , that, if and so long as stockholders of HP are entitled to cumulative voting, if less than the entire Board of Directors is to be removed, no director may be removed without cause if the votes cast against his or her removal would be sufficient to elect him or her if then cumulatively voted at an election of the entire Board of Directors.
provided
however
 
3.6
                                
Place of Meetings; Meetings by Telephone
.  Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any place within or outside the State of Delaware that has been designated from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors.  In the absence of such a designation, regular meetings will be held at any place within or outside the State of Delaware that has been designated in the notice of the meeting or, if not stated in the notice or if there is no notice, at the principal executive office of HP.  Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be held at any place within or outside the State of Delaware that has been designated in the notice of the meeting or, if not stated in the notice or if there is no notice, at the principal executive office of HP.
 
Any meeting, regular or special, may be held by conference telephone or similar communication equipment, so long as all directors participating in the meeting can hear one another; and all such directors shall be deemed to be present in person at the meeting.
 
3.7
                                
Regular Meetings
.  Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice if the times of such meetings are fixed by the Board of Directors.
 
3.8
                                
Special Meetings; Notice
.  Special meetings of the Board of Directors for any purpose or purposes may be called at any time by the chairman of the Board of Directors, if any, or in the absence of a chairman by the lead independent director, or by the chief executive officer, the secretary or a majority of the members of the Board of Directors then in office.
 
The person or persons authorized to call special meetings of the Board of Directors may fix the place and time of the meetings.  The chairman of the Board of Directors, if any, the chief executive officer, secretary or any assistant secretary or their delegates will give notice of any special meeting to each director personally or by telephone to each director or sent by mail, express mail, courier service, confirmed facsimile, electronic mail or other means of electronic transmission, postage or charges prepaid, addressed to each director at that director's address as it is shown on the records of HP or if the address is not readily ascertainable, notice will be addressed to the director at the city or place in which the meetings of directors are regularly held.  If the notice is by mail, such notice will be deposited in the United States mail at least four (4) days prior to the time set for such meeting.  If the notice is by express mail or courier service, such notice will be deemed adequately delivered when the notice is delivered to the overnight mail or courier service company at least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the time set for such meeting.  If the notice is by facsimile transmission, electronic mail or other means of electronic
 
transmission, such notice will be deemed adequately delivered when the notice is transmitted a reasonable time prior to the time set for such meeting.  If the notice is by telephone or by hand delivery, such notice will be deemed adequately delivered when the notice is given a reasonable time (which need not be more than twenty-four hours and may be less depending upon the circumstances) prior to the time set for such meeting.  Any oral notice given personally or by telephone may be communicated either to the director or to a person at the office of the director whom the person giving the notice has reason to believe will promptly communicate it to the director.  If the meeting is to be held at the principal executive office of HP, the notice need not specify the place of the meeting.  Moreover, a notice of meeting need not state the purpose of such meeting, and, unless indicated in the notice thereof, any and all business may be transacted at a meeting.
 
3.9
                                
Quorum
.  A majority of the authorized number of directors will constitute a quorum for the transaction of business, except to fill vacancies in the Board of Directors as provided in Section 3.4 and to adjourn as provided in Section 3.11 of these Bylaws.  Every act or decision done or made by a majority of the directors present at a duly held meeting at which a quorum is present will be regarded as the act of the Board of Directors, subject to the provisions of the Certificate of Incorporation and applicable law.
 
A meeting at which a quorum is initially present may continue to transact business, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough directors to leave less than a quorum.
 
3.10
                          
Waiver of Notice
.  Notice of a meeting need not be given to any director (i) who provides a written or electronic waiver of notice or a consent to holding the meeting or who approves the minutes thereof, whether before or after the meeting, or (ii) who attends the meeting without protesting, prior thereto or at its commencement, the lack of notice to such directors.  If waiver of notice is given by electronic transmission, such electronic transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which it can be determined that the electronic transmission was authorized by the director.  The transactions of any meeting of the Board of Directors, however called and noticed or wherever held, are as valid as though taken at a meeting duly held after regular call and notice if a quorum is present and if, either before or after the meeting, each of the directors not present who did not receive notice of such meeting provides a written or electronic waiver of notice pursuant to this Section 3.10.  A waiver of notice need not specify the purpose of any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors.
 
3.11
                          
Adjournment
.  A majority of the directors present, whether or not constituting a quorum, may adjourn any meeting to another time and place.
 
3.12
                          
Notice of Adjournment
.  Notice of the time and place of holding an adjourned meeting need not be given if announced unless the meeting is adjourned for more than twenty-four (24) hours.  If the meeting is adjourned for more than twenty-four (24) hours, then notice of the time and place of the adjourned meeting will be given before the adjourned meeting takes place, in the manner specified in Section 3.8 of these Bylaws, to the directors who were not present at the time of the adjournment.
3.13
                          
Board Action by Written Consent Without a Meeting
.  Any action required or permitted to be taken by the Board of Directors may be taken without a meeting, that all members of the Board of Directors individually or collectively provide written or electronic consent to that action; , that, if such consent is effected by electronic transmission, such electronic transmission was authorized by the director.  Such action by written consent will have the same force and effect as a unanimous vote of the Board of Directors.  Such written consent and any counterparts thereof will be filed with the minutes of the proceedings of the Board of Directors.
provided
provided
however
 
3.14
                          
Organization
.  Meetings of the Board of Directors will be presided over by the chairman of the Board of Directors, if any.  In his or her absence, the lead independent director will preside over meetings of the Board of Directors.  In the absence of the chairman of the Board of Directors and the lead independent director, a majority of the directors present at the meeting, assuming a quorum, will designate a president pro tem of the meeting who, if any such person be present, will be a chairman of a committee of the Board of Directors and who will preside at the meeting.  The secretary, or in his or her absence the assistant secretary, will act as secretary of the meeting, but in the absence of such persons the chairman of the meeting may appoint any person to act as secretary of the meeting.
 
3.15
                          
Fees and Compensation of Directors
.  Directors and members of committees may receive such compensation, if any, for their services and such reimbursement of expenses as may be fixed or determined by resolution of the Board of Directors.  This Section 3.15 will not be construed to preclude any director from serving HP in any other capacity as an officer, agent, employee or otherwise and receiving compensation for those services.
 
3.16
                          
Executive Session
.  It is the intent of the Board of Directors that the members of the Board of Directors who are not employees of HP will confer in executive session at least three times per year.  Such directors may confer in additional executive sessions from time to time throughout the year, as determined by a majority of such directors.  The executive sessions shall be presided over by a lead independent director, selected by a majority of such independent directors, as determined by HP's independence standards.
 
4.1
                                
Committees of Directors
.  The Board of Directors may designate one (1) or more committees, each consisting of one (1) or more directors, to serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.  The Board of Directors may designate one (1) or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent member at any meeting of the committee.  Any committee, unless limited by resolution of the Board of Directors or any applicable laws or listing standards, will have all the authority of the Board of Directors, but no such committee will have the power or authority to (i) approve or adopt or recommend to the stockholders any action or matter (other than the election or removal of directors) that requires the approval of the stockholders under applicable law or (ii) adopt, amend or repeal any Bylaw of HP.
4.2
                                
Meetings and Action of Committees
.  Meetings and actions of committees will be governed by, and held and taken in accordance with, the provisions of Article III of these Bylaws, Section 3.6 (place of meetings; meetings by telephone), Section 3.7 (regular meetings), Section 3.8 (special meetings; notice), Section 3.9 (quorum), Section 3.10 (waiver of notice), Section 3.11 (adjournment), Section 3.12 (notice of adjournment), and Section 3.13 (action by written consent), with such changes in the context of those Bylaws as are necessary to substitute the committee and its members for the Board of Directors and its members; , , that the time of regular meetings of committees may be determined either by resolution of the Board of Directors or by resolution of the committee, that special meetings of committees may also be called by resolution of the Board of Directors, and that notice of special meetings of committees will also be given to all alternate members, who will have the right to attend all meetings of the committee.  The Board of Directors may adopt rules for the government of any committee not inconsistent with the provisions of these Bylaws.
provided
however
 
4.3
                                
Executive Committee
.  In the event that the Board of Directors appoints an executive committee, such executive committee, in all cases in which specific directions to the contrary have not been given by the Board of Directors, will have and may exercise, during the intervals between the meetings of the Board of Directors, all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of HP (except as provided in Section 4.1 hereof) in such manner as the executive committee may deem in the best interests of HP.
 
5.1
                                
Officers
.  The officers of HP shall consist of a chief executive officer, a chief financial officer, one or more vice presidents, a secretary, one or more assistant secretaries, who will be elected by the Board of Directors and such other officers, including but not limited to a president and a treasurer, as the Board of Directors deems expedient, who will be elected in such manner and hold their offices for such terms as the Board of Directors may prescribe.  Any two of such offices may be held by the same person.  The Board of Directors may designate one or more elected vice presidents as executive vice presidents or senior vice presidents, and the chief executive officer may designate one or more elected vice presidents as senior vice presidents.  The Board of Directors may from time to time designate the chief executive officer, president or any executive vice president as the chief operating officer of HP.
 
5.2
                                
Appointment of Officers
.  In addition to officers elected by the Board of Directors in accordance with Sections 5.1 and 5.3, HP may have one or more appointed vice presidents.  Such appointed vice presidents may be appointed by the Board of Directors, the chairman of the Board of Directors, if any, or the chief executive officer and will have such duties as may be established by the Board of Directors, the chairman of the Board of Directors, if any, or the chief executive officer.  The Board of Directors may designate one or more appointed vice presidents as executive vice presidents or senior vice presidents, and the chief executive officer may designate one or more appointed vice presidents as senior vice presidents.  Vice presidents appointed pursuant to this Section 5.2 may be removed in accordance with Section 5.5.
 
5.3
                                
Election of Section 16 Officers by Board of Directors
.  The Board of Directors will designate officers for purposes of Section 16 of the 1934 Act ("").
Section 16 Officers
5.4
                                
Terms of Office and Compensation
.  The term of office of each of such executive officers will be fixed and determined by the Board of Directors and may be altered by the Board of Directors from time to time at its pleasure, subject to the rights, if any, of such executive officers under any contract of employment.  The compensation of such executive officers shall be determined by the HR and Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors in consultation with the full Board of Directors, as appropriate.
 
5.5
                                
Removal; Resignation of Officers and Vacancies
.  Any officer of HP may be removed at the pleasure of the Board of Directors at any meeting or at the pleasure of any officer who may be granted such power by a resolution of the Board of Directors.  Any officer may resign at any time upon written or electronic notice to HP without prejudice to the rights, if any, of HP under any contract to which the officer is a party; that, if such notice is given by electronic transmission, such transmission must either set forth or be submitted with information from which it can be determined that the electronic transmission was authorized by the officer.  Such resignation shall take effect at the date of receipt of such notice or at any later time specified therein and, unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective.  If any vacancy occurs in any office of HP the Board of Directors may elect a successor to fill such vacancy for the remainder of the unexpired term and until a successor is duly chosen and qualified.
provided
 
5.6
                                
Chairman of the Board
.  The chairman of the Board of Directors, if any, may be an officer of HP and will, if present, preside at meetings of the Board of Directors and stockholders; and may call meetings of the stockholders and also of the Board of Directors to be held, subject to the limitations prescribed by law or by these Bylaws, at such times and at such places as the chairman of the Board of Directors may deem proper.  The chairman of the Board of Directors will exercise and perform such other duties as may from time to time be agreed to by the Board of Directors.  The chairman of the Board of Directors will report to the Board of Directors.
 
5.7
                                
Chairman of Executive Committee
.  The chairman of the executive committee, if there be one, will have other powers and be subject to such duties as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe.
 
5.8
                                
Chief Executive Officer
.  The powers and duties of the chief executive officer are:
 
(a)
                                 
To have and provide general supervision, direction and control of HP's business and its officers;
 
(b)
                                
To call meetings of the Board of Directors to be held, subject to the limitations prescribed by law or by these Bylaws, at such times and at such places as the chief executive officer deems proper;
 
(c)
                                 
To affix the signature of HP to all deeds, conveyances, mortgages, leases, obligations, bonds, certificates and other papers and instruments in writing ("") which have been authorized by the Board of Directors or which, in the judgment of the chief executive officer, should be executed on behalf of HP;
Contracts
 
(d)
                                
To delegate the power to affix the signature of HP to Contracts to other officers of HP; and
 
(e)
                                 
To have such other powers and be subject to such other duties as the Board of Directors may from time to time prescribe.
In case of the disability or death of the chief executive officer, the Board of Directors will meet promptly to confer the powers of the chief executive officer on another elected officer.  Until the Board of Directors takes such action, the chief financial officer will exercise all the powers and perform all the duties of the chief executive officer.
 
5.9
                                
President
.  Subject to the discretion of the Board of Directors to elect or not elect a president and to the supervisory powers of the chief executive officer in the event of such election, the president, if any, will act in a general executive capacity and will assist the chief executive officer in the administration and operation of HP's business and general supervision of its policies and affairs.  The president will have the power to sign certificates for shares of stock of HP.  The president will have the power to affix the signature of HP to all Contracts unless otherwise limited by HP policy or by the Board of Directors or the chief executive officer.  The president will have such other powers and be subject to such other duties as the Board of Directors or the chairman of the Board of Directors, if any, or the chief executive officer may from time to time prescribe.
 
5.10
                          
Vice Presidents
.  Vice Presidents may be elected by the Board of Directors or appointed pursuant to Section 5.2.  Elected vice presidents will have the power to affix the signature of HP to all Contracts, unless otherwise limited by HP policy or by the Board of Directors or the officer to whom such elected vice president directly or indirectly reports.  Elected vice presidents will have such other powers and perform such other duties as may be granted or prescribed by the Board of Directors.
 
Vice presidents appointed pursuant to Section 5.2 will have such powers and duties as may be fixed in accordance with Section 5.2, except that such appointed vice presidents may not exercise the powers and duties of the chief executive officer or president.
 
5.11
                          
Secretary
.  The powers and duties of the secretary are:
 
(a)
                                 
To keep a book of minutes at the principal office of HP, or such other place as the Board of Directors may order, of all meetings of its directors and stockholders with the time and place of such meetings, whether regular or special, and, if special, how authorized, the notice thereof given, the names of those present at directors' meetings, the number of shares present or represented at stockholders' meetings and the proceedings thereof.
 
(b)
                                
To keep the seal of HP and affix the same to all instruments which may require it.
 
(c)
                                 
To keep or cause to be kept at the principal executive office of HP, or at the office of the transfer agent or agents, a share register, or duplicate share registers, showing the names of the stockholders and their addresses, the number of and classes of shares, and the number and date of cancellation of every certificate surrendered for cancellation.
 
(d)
                                
To keep a supply of certificates for shares of HP, to fill in all certificates issued, and to make a proper record of each such issuance; , that so long as HP will have one or more duly appointed and acting transfer agents or exchange agents with respect to the shares, or any class or series of shares, of HP, such duties with respect to such shares will be performed by such agent or agents.
provided
(e)
                                 
To transfer upon the share books of HP any and all shares of HP; , that so long as HP will have one or more duly appointed and acting transfer agents or exchange agents with respect to the shares, or any class or series of shares, of HP, such duties with respect to such shares will be performed by such agent or agents, and the method of transfer of each certificate will be subject to the reasonable regulations of the agent to which the certificate is presented for transfer, and also, if HP then has one or more duly appointed and acting agents, to the reasonable regulations of the agent to which the new certificate is presented for registration; and , that no certificate for shares of stock will be issued or delivered or, if issued or delivered, will have any validity whatsoever until and unless it has been signed or authenticated in the manner provided in Section 8.5 hereof.
provided
provided
further
 
(f)
                                   
To make service and publication of all notices that may be necessary or proper.  In case of the absence, disability, refusal, or neglect of the secretary to make service or publication of any notices, then such notices may be served and/or published by the chief executive officer, the president or a vice president, or by any person thereunto authorized by any of them or by the Board of Directors or by the holders of a majority of the outstanding shares of HP.
 
(g)
                                
Generally to do and perform all such duties as pertain to the office of secretary and as may be required by the Board of Directors.
 
5.12
                          
Chief Financial Officer
.  The powers and duties of the chief financial officer are:
 
(a)
                                 
To supervise the corporate-wide treasury functions and financial reporting to external bodies.
 
(b)
                                
To have the custody of all funds, securities, evidence of indebtedness and other valuable documents of HP and, at the chief financial officer's discretion, to cause any or all thereof to be deposited for account of HP at such depositary or depositaries as may be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors or the chairman of the Board of Directors, if any, or the chief executive officer, or as the chief financial officer deems appropriate.
 
(c)
                                 
To receive or cause to be received, and to give or cause to be given, receipts and acceptances for monies paid in for the account of HP.
 
(d)
                                
To disburse, or cause to be disbursed, all funds of HP subject to such limits as may be directed by the Board of Directors, the chairman of the Board, if any, or the chief executive officer, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements.
 
(e)
                                 
To render to the chief executive officer and to the Board of Directors, whenever they may require, accounts of all transactions and of the financial condition of HP.
 
(f)
                                   
Generally to do and perform all such duties as pertain to the office of chief financial officer and as may be required by the Board of Directors.
 
6.1
                                
Indemnification of Directors and Officers
.  HP will indemnify and hold harmless each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is involved in any action, suit, or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a ""), by reason of the fact that he or she or a person of whom he or she is the legal representative is or was a director or officer of HP (or any predecessor) or is or was serving at the request of HP (or any predecessor) as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise (or any predecessor of any of such entities), including service with respect to employee benefit plans maintained or sponsored by HP (or any predecessor), whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a director, officer, employee or agent, to the fullest extent authorized by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended, against all expenses, liabilities and losses (including attorneys' fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid or to be paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such person in connection therewith and such indemnification will continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and will inure to the benefit of his or her heirs, executors and administrators; , , that except as provided in the third paragraph of this Section 6.1, HP will indemnify any such person seeking indemnification in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such person only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors.  The right to indemnification conferred in this Section 6.1 will be a contract right and, in accordance with and subject to the provisions of Section 6.4, will include the right to be paid by HP the expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition.
proceeding
provided
however
 
To obtain indemnification under this Section 6.1, a claimant will submit to the secretary of HP a written request, including therein or therewith such documentation and information as is reasonably available to the claimant and is reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent the claimant is entitled to indemnification.  Upon written request by a claimant for indemnification pursuant to the preceding sentence, a determination, if required by applicable law, with respect to the claimant's entitlement thereto will be made as follows:  (i) if requested by the claimant, by Independent Counsel (as hereinafter defined), or (ii) if no request is made by the claimant for a determination by Independent Counsel, (A) by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of Disinterested Directors (as hereinafter defined), even though less than a quorum or (B) if there are no Disinterested Directors or if the Disinterested Directors so direct, by Independent Counsel in a written opinion to the Board of Directors, a copy of which will be delivered to the claimant, or (C) by a majority vote of a committee of Disinterested Directors designated by a majority vote of the Disinterested Directors, or (D) if a majority of the Disinterested Directors so direct, by the stockholders of HP.  In the event the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel at the request of the claimant, the Board of Directors will select Independent Counsel unless there has occurred within two years prior to the date of the commencement of the action, suit or proceeding for which indemnification is claimed a "Change of Control" (as hereinafter defined), in which case the claimant will select Independent Counsel unless the claimant requests that the Board of Directors makes such selection.  If it is so determined that the claimant is entitled to indemnification, HP will pay within ten (10) days after such determination.
 
If HP does not pay in full a claim for indemnification under this Section 6.1 within thirty (30) days after a written claim pursuant to the preceding paragraph of this Section 6.1 has been received by HP, the claimant may at any time thereafter bring suit against HP to recover the unpaid amount of the claim and, if successful in whole or in part, the claimant will be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting such claim.  It will be a defense to any such action (other than an action brought to enforce a claim for expenses incurred in defending any proceeding in advance of its final disposition where the required undertaking, if any is required, has been tendered to HP) that the claimant has not met the standard of conduct which makes it permissible under the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware for HP to indemnify the claimant for the amount claimed, but the burden of proving such defense will be on HP.  Neither the failure of HP (including its Board of Directors, Independent Counsel or stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such action that indemnification of the claimant is proper in the circumstances because he or she has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, nor an actual determination by HP (including its Board of Directors, Independent Counsel or stockholders) that the claimant has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall be a defense to the action or create a presumption that the claimant has not met the applicable standard of conduct.
 
If a determination is made pursuant to this Section 6.1 that the claimant is entitled to indemnification, HP will be bound by such determination in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to the preceding paragraph of this Section 6.1.  HP will be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding commenced pursuant to the third paragraph of this Section 6.1 that the procedures and presumptions of this Article VI are not valid, binding and enforceable and will stipulate in such proceeding that HP is bound by all the provisions of this Article VI.  The right to indemnification and the payment of expenses incurred in defending a proceeding in advance of its final disposition conferred in this Section 6.1 will not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or Disinterested Directors or otherwise.  No repeal or modification of this Article VI will in any way diminish or adversely affect the rights of any director, officer, employee or agent of HP hereunder in respect of any occurrence or matter arising prior to any such repeal or modification.
 
6.2
                                
Indemnification of Others
.  HP will have the power, to the maximum extent and in the manner permitted by the General Corporation Law of Delaware, to indemnify each of its employees and agents (other than present and former directors and officers) against expenses (including attorneys' fees), judgments, fines, settlements and other amounts actually and reasonably incurred or suffered in connection with any proceeding, arising by reason of the fact that such person is or was an employee or agent of HP.  For purposes of this Section 6.2, an "employee" or "agent" of HP (other than a director or officer) includes any person (i) who is or was an employee or agent of HP, (ii) who is or was serving at the request of HP as an employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, or (iii) who was an employee or agent of a corporation which was a predecessor corporation of HP or of another enterprise at the request of such predecessor corporation.  To obtain indemnification under this Section 6.2, a claimant will submit to the secretary of HP a written request, including therein or therewith such documentation and information as is reasonably available to the claimant and is reasonably necessary to determine whether and to what extent the claimant will be granted indemnification.
6.3
                                
Insurance
.  HP may purchase and maintain insurance on behalf of any person who is or was a director, officer, employee or agent of HP, or is or was serving at the request of HP as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any liability asserted against him or her and incurred by him or her in any such capacity, or arising out of his or her status as such, whether or not HP would have the power to indemnify him or her against such liability under the provisions of the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
 
6.4
                                
Expenses
.  HP will advance to any person eligible for indemnification pursuant to Section 6.1 hereof, and may advance to any person eligible for indemnification pursuant to Section 6.2 hereof, prior to the final disposition of the proceeding, all expenses reasonably incurred by any such person in connection with defending such proceeding, upon receipt of a request therefor and an undertaking by or on behalf of such person to repay such amounts if it should be determined ultimately that such person is not entitled to be indemnified under this Article VI or otherwise, such advances to be paid by HP within twenty (20) days after the receipt by HP of a statement or statements from the claimant requesting such advance or advances from time to time.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, HP will not be required to advance expenses in connection with any proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by any person unless the proceeding was authorized in advance by the Board of Directors of HP.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise determined pursuant to Section 6.5, HP will not advance or continue to advance expenses to any person (except by reason of the fact that such person is or was a director of HP in which event this paragraph will not apply) in any proceeding if a determination is reasonably and promptly made (i) by the Board of Directors by a majority vote of Disinterested Directors, even though less than a quorum (ii) if there are no Disinterested Directors or the Disinterested Directors so direct, by Independent Counsel in a written opinion or (iii) by a majority vote of a committee of Disinterested Directors designated by a majority vote of Disinterested Directors, that the facts known to the decision-making party at the time such determination is made demonstrate clearly and convincingly that such person acted in bad faith or in a manner that such person did not believe to be in or not opposed to the best interests of HP.
 
6.5
                                
Non-Exclusivity of Rights
.  The rights conferred on any person by this Article VI will not be exclusive of any other right which such person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, provision of the Certificate of Incorporation, Bylaws, agreement, vote of stockholders or Disinterested Directors or otherwise, both as to action in his or her official capacity and as to action in another capacity while holding office.  HP is specifically authorized to enter into individual contracts with any or all of its directors, officers, employees or agents respecting indemnification and advances, to the fullest extent not prohibited by the General Corporation Law of Delaware.
 
6.6
                                
Survival of Rights
.  The rights conferred on any person by this Article VI will continue as to a person who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or other agent and will inure to the benefit of the heirs, executors and administrators of such a person.
6.7
                                
Amendments
.  Any repeal or modification of this Article VI will only be prospective and will not affect the rights under this Article VI in effect at the time of the alleged occurrence of any action or omission to act that is the cause of any proceeding against any agent of HP.
 
6.8
                                
Severability
.  If any provision or provisions of this Article VI will be held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable for any reason whatsoever:  (i) the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions of this Article VI (including, without limitation, each portion of any paragraph of this Article VI containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable, that is not itself held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) will not in any way be affected or impaired thereby; and (ii) to the fullest extent possible, the provisions of this Article VI (including, without limitation, each such portion of any paragraph of this Article VI containing any such provision held to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable) will be construed so as to give effect to the intent manifested by the provision held invalid, illegal or unenforceable.
 
6.9
                                
Notice
.  Any notice, request or other communication required or permitted to be given to HP under this Article VI will be in writing and either delivered in person or sent by confirmed telecopy, electronic mail, overnight mail or courier service, or certified or registered mail, postage or charges prepaid, return copy requested, to the secretary of HP and will be effective only upon receipt by the secretary.
 
6.10
                          
Definitions
.  For the purpose of this Article VI, a "" will mean:
Change of Control
 
(1)
                                 
the acquisition by any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Section 13(d)(3) or 14(d)(2) of the 1934 Act (a "") of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the 1934 Act) of 20% or more of either (i) the then outstanding shares of common stock of HP (the "") or (ii) the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of HP entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (the "").  Notwithstanding the foregoing, for purposes of this part (1), the following acquisitions will not constitute a Change of Control:  (i) any acquisition directly from HP or any acquisition from other stockholders where (A) such acquisition was approved in advance by the Board of Directors of HP, and (B) such acquisition would not constitute a Change of Control under the first sentence of part (1) of this definition, (ii) any acquisition by HP, (iii) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by HP or any corporation controlled by HP, or (iv) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction which complies with clauses (i), (ii) and (iii) of the second sentence of part (1) of this definition; or
Person
Outstanding Corporation Common Stock
Outstanding Corporation Voting Securities
 
(2)
                                 
individuals who, as of the date hereof, constitute the Board of Directors (the "") cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board of Directors; , , that any individual becoming a director subsequent to the date hereof whose election, or nomination for election by the stockholders, was approved by a vote of
Incumbent Board
provided
however
 
at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board will be considered as though such individual were a member of the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Board of Directors; or
 
(3)
                                 
consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of HP (a ""), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (i) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Corporation Common Stock and Outstanding HP Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock and the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors, as the case may be, of HP resulting from such Business Combination (including, without limitation, a corporation which as a result of such transaction owns HP or all or substantially all of HP's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding HP Common Stock and Outstanding HP Voting Securities, as the case may be, (ii) no Person (excluding any corporation resulting from such Business Combination or any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of HP or such corporation resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 20% or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common stock of the corporation resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding voting securities of such corporation except to the extent that such ownership existed prior to the Business Combination, and (iii) at least a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of HP resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board of Directors, providing for such Business Combination; or
Business Combination
 
(4)
                                 
approval by the stockholders of a complete liquidation or dissolution of HP.
 
For purposes of this Bylaw:
 
"" will mean a director of HP who is not and was not a party to the matter in respect of which indemnification is sought by the claimant.
Disinterested Director
 
"" will mean a law firm, a member of a law firm, or an independent practitioner, that is experienced in matters of corporation law and will include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would not have a conflict of interest in representing either HP or the claimant in an action to determine the claimant's rights under this Article VI.
Independent Counsel
7.1
                                
Maintenance and Inspection of Records
.  HP will, either at its principal executive office or at such place or places as designated by the Board of Directors or the secretary, keep a record of its stockholders listing their names and addresses and the number and class of shares held by each stockholder, a copy of these Bylaws as amended to date, accounting books and other records.
 
Any stockholder of record or beneficial owner of shares held either in a voting trust or by a nominee on behalf of such person, in person or by attorney or other agent, will, upon written demand under oath stating the purpose thereof, have the right during the usual hours for business to inspect for any proper purpose HP's stock ledger, a list of its stockholders, and its other books and records and to make copies or extracts therefrom.  In every instance where the stockholder is other than a record holder of stock in HP, the demand under oath will state the person's status as a stockholder, be accompanied by documentary evidence of beneficial ownership of the stock and state that such documentary evidence is a true and correct copy of what it purports to be.  A proper purpose will mean a purpose reasonably related to such person's interest as a stockholder.  In every instance where an attorney or other agent is the person who seeks the right to inspection, the demand under oath will be accompanied by a power of attorney or such other writing that authorizes the attorney or other agent to so act on behalf of the stockholder.  The demand under oath will be directed to HP at its registered office in Delaware or to the secretary of HP at HP's principal place of business.  For purposes of this Section 7.1, "under oath" will include statements the declarant affirms to be true under penalty of perjury under the laws of the United States or any state thereof.
 
7.2
                                
Inspection by Directors
.  Any director will have the right to examine HP's stock ledger, a list of its stockholders and its other books and records for a purpose reasonably related to his or her position as a director.  The burden of proof will be upon HP to establish that the inspection such director seeks is for an improper purpose.  The Court of Chancery is hereby vested with the exclusive jurisdiction to determine whether a director is entitled to the inspection sought.  The Court may summarily order HP to permit the director to inspect any and all books and records, the stock ledger, and the stock list and to make copies or extracts therefrom.  The Court may, in its discretion, prescribe any limitations or conditions with reference to the inspection, or award such other and further relief as the Court may deem just and proper.
 
7.3
                                
Representation of Shares of Other Corporations
.  The chief executive officer or any other officer of HP who serves on the Board of Directors of another entity at the request of or with the approval of HP or who is otherwise duly authorized may vote, represent, and exercise on behalf of HP all rights incident to any and all shares or other equity interest of any other entity or corporations standing in the name of HP; , , that the granting of any proxy in connection with an annual meeting of stockholders of any such entity will be subject to prior review by the secretary or assistant secretary of HP, and, , that the granting of any proxy in connection with an annual meeting of stockholders of any entity in which an HP employee benefit plan is a stockholder will be determined by the Investment Review Committee of HP or its delegate.  The authority herein granted may be exercised either by such person directly or by any other person authorized to do so by such person having the authority.
provided
however
provided
further
8.1
                                
Record Date for Purposes Other Than Notice and Voting
.  For purposes of determining the stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights or the stockholders entitled to exercise any rights in respect of any other lawful action, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which will not be more than sixty (60) days before any such action, and which record date will not precede the date upon which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted.  In that case, only stockholders of record at the close of business on the date so fixed are entitled to receive the dividend, distribution or allotment of rights, or to exercise such rights, as the case may be, notwithstanding any transfer of any shares on the books of HP after the record date so fixed, except as otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, by these Bylaws, by agreement or by law.
 
If the Board of Directors does not so fix a record date, then the record date for determining stockholders for any such purpose will be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts the applicable resolution.
 
8.2
                                
Checks; Drafts; Evidences of Indebtedness
.  From time to time, the Board of Directors or its delegate will determine by resolution which person or persons may sign or endorse all checks, drafts, other orders for payment of money, notes or other evidences of indebtedness that are issued in the name of or payable to HP, and only the persons so authorized will sign or endorse those instruments.
 
8.3
                                
Corporate Contracts and Instruments; How Executed
.  The Board of Directors may authorize any officer or officers, or agent or agents, to enter into any contract or execute any instrument in the name of and on behalf of HP; such authority may be general or confined to specific instances.  Unless so authorized or ratified by the Board of Directors, provided in these Bylaws or within the agency power of an officer, no officer, agent or employee will have any power or authority to bind HP by any contract or engagement or to pledge its credit or to render it liable for any purpose or for any amount.
 
8.4
                                
Fiscal Year
.  The fiscal year of HP will begin on the first day of November of each year and end on the last day of October of the following year.
 
8.5
                                
Stock Certificates
.  There will be issued to each holder of fully paid shares of the capital stock of HP a certificate or certificates for such shares, if so requested by the holder (in the absence of such request, shares may be issued in book-entry form).  To the extent required by the General Corporation Law of the State of Delaware, every holder of shares of HP will be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of HP by, the president and by the treasurer or an assistant treasurer, or the secretary or an assistant secretary of HP representing the number of shares registered in certificate form.  Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile.  In case any officer, transfer agent or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate has ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by HP with the same effect as if he or she were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue.
 
8.6
                                
Special Designation on Certificates
.  If HP is authorized to issue more than one class of stock or more than one series of any class, then the powers, the designations, the preferences, and the relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights will be set forth in full or summarized on the face or back of the certificate that HP will issue to represent such class or series of stock; , , that, except as otherwise provided in Section 202 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware, in lieu of the foregoing requirements there may be set forth on the face or back of the certificate that HP will issue to represent such class or series of stock a statement that HP will furnish without charge to each stockholder who so requests the powers, the designations, the preferences, and the relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions of such preferences and/or rights.
provided
however
 
8.7
                                
Lost Certificates
.  HP, directly or through its transfer or exchange agent, may issue a new share certificate or new certificate for any other security in the place of any certificate theretofore issued by it, alleged to have been lost, stolen or destroyed, and HP, directly or through its transfer or exchange agent, may require the owner of the lost, stolen or destroyed certificate or the owner's legal representative to give HP a bond (or other adequate security) sufficient to indemnify it against any claim that may be made against it (including any expense or liability) on account of the alleged loss, theft or destruction of any such certificate or the issuance of such new certificate.  The Board of Directors may adopt such other provisions and restrictions with reference to lost certificates, not inconsistent with applicable law, as appropriate.
 
8.8
                                
Construction; Definitions
.  Unless the context requires otherwise, the general provisions, rules of construction, and definitions in the General Corporation Law of Delaware will govern the construction of these Bylaws.  Without limiting the generality of this provision, the singular number includes the plural, the plural number includes the singular, and the term "person" includes both a corporation and a natural person.
 
8.9
                                
Provisions Contrary to Provisions of Law
.  Any article, section, subsection, subdivision, sentence, clause or phrase of these Bylaws which upon being construed in the manner provided in Section 8.9 hereof, is contrary to or inconsistent with any applicable provisions of law, will not apply so long as such provisions of law remain in effect, but such result will not affect the validity or applicability of any other portions of these Bylaws, it being hereby declared that these Bylaws would have been adopted and each article, section, subsection, subdivision, sentence, clause or phrase thereof, irrespective of the fact that any one or more articles, sections, subsections, subdivisions, sentences, clauses or phrases is or are illegal.
 
8.10
                          
Notices
.  Any reference in these Bylaws to the time a notice is given or sent means, unless otherwise expressly provided, the time a written notice by mail is deposited in the United States mails, postage prepaid; or the time any other written notice is personally delivered to the recipient or is delivered to a carrier for transmission, or actually transmitted by the person giving the notice by facsimile, electronic mail or other electronic means, to the recipient; or the time any oral notice is communicated, in person or by telephone, to the recipient or to a person at the office of the recipient who the person giving the notice has reason to believe will promptly communicate it to the recipient.
 
8.11
                          
Remote Communication
.  For the purposes of these Bylaws, if authorized by the Board of Directors in its sole discretion, and subject to such guidelines and procedures as the Board of Directors may adopt, stockholders and proxyholders may, by means of remote communication:
 
(a)
                                 
participate in a meeting of stockholders; and
 
(b)
                                
be deemed present in person and vote at a meeting of stockholders whether such meeting is to be held at a designated place or solely by means of remote communication, that (i) HP will implement reasonable measures to verify that each person deemed present and permitted to vote at the meeting by means of remote communication is a stockholder or proxyholder, (ii) HP will implement reasonable measures to provide such stockholders and proxyholders a reasonable opportunity to participate in the meeting and to vote on matters submitted to the stockholder, including an opportunity to read or hear the proceedings of the meeting substantially concurrently with such proceedings, and (iii) if any stockholder or proxyholder votes or takes other action at the meeting by means of remote communication, HP or its agent will maintain a record of such vote or other action.
provided
 
8.12
                          
Electronic Transmission
.  For purposes of these Bylaws, "electronic transmission" means any form of communication, not directly involving the physical transmission of paper, that creates a record that may be retained, retrieved, and reviewed by a recipient thereof, and that may be directly reproduced in paper form by such a recipient through an automated process.
 
8.13
                          
Stockholder Rights Plan
.  HP will seek stockholder approval prior to its adoption of a Rights Plan, unless the Board of Directors, in the exercise of its fiduciary duties, determines that, under the circumstances existing at the time, it is in the best interests of the stockholders of HP to adopt or extend a Rights Plan without delay.  If a Rights Plan is adopted or extended by the Board of Directors without prior stockholder approval, such plan must provide that it will expire unless ratified by the stockholders of HP within one year of adoption.  For purposes of this bylaw, the term "" refers generally to any plan providing for the distribution of preferred stock, rights, warrants, options or debt instruments to the stockholders of HP, designed to assist the Board of Directors in responding to unsolicited takeover proposals and significant stock accumulations in a manner that facilitates the exercise of the Board of Directors' fiduciary responsibilities to stockholders of HP by conferring certain rights on them upon the occurrence of a "triggering event" such as a tender offer or third party acquisition of a specified percentage of stock.
Rights Plan
 
The Bylaws of HP may be adopted, amended or repealed by the stockholders entitled to vote; , , that HP may, in its Certificate of Incorporation, confer the power to adopt, amend or repeal bylaws upon the directors; and, , that any proposal by a stockholder to amend these Bylaws will be subject to the provisions of Article II and Article VI hereof.  The fact that such power has been so conferred upon the directors will not divest the stockholders of the power, nor limit their power to adopt, amend or repeal bylaws.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, amendment or deletion of all or any portion of Article II hereof, Section 3.2 hereof, Section 3.3 hereof, Section 3.4 hereof, Section 6.1 and 6.4 hereof or this Article IX by the stockholders of HP will require the affirmative vote of sixty-six and two-thirds percent (66 2/3%) of the outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon.
provided
however
provided
further
 
Amended and restated effective August 6, 2010.

QuickLinks
-- Click here to rapidly navigate through this document
Exhibit 10.1
        This Separation Agreement and Release ("Separation Agreement") is entered into by and between Mark V. Hurd ("Executive" or "you") and Hewlett-Packard Company (the "Company"), and confirms the agreement that has been reached with you in connection with your separation from the Company.
        1.
    Termination of Employment.
    You agree that your separation shall be effective as of August 6, 2010 (the "Separation Date") and as of such date you shall cease to be employed by the Company and each and every subsidiary or affiliate of the Company in any capacity. As of the Separation Date you shall also resign as a member of the Board of Directors of the Company (as well as of the Board of Directors of any of the Company's subsidiaries). You further agree to execute promptly upon request by the Company any additional documents necessary to effectuate the provisions of this paragraph 1.
        2.
    Separation Pay and Benefits.
    In consideration of your execution of this Separation Agreement and your compliance with its terms and conditions, the Company agrees to pay or provide you (subject to the terms and conditions set forth in this Separation Agreement) with the benefits described in this paragraph 2, which exceed any payment and benefits to which you are otherwise entitled.
        a.     Within thirty (30) days following the Separation Date, the Company shall pay you an aggregate of $12,224,693 (the "Separation Amount"), less applicable withholdings, in full satisfaction of the Company's obligations under the Severance Plan for Executive Officers of Hewlett-Packard Company (the "Severance Plan").
        b.     If you timely elect continued group medical and dental coverage pursuant to the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985, as amended ("COBRA") the Company will either pay directly or reimburse you for the COBRA premium payments for you and your eligible dependents under the Company's group medical and dental plans for the period of eighteen (18) months following the Separation Date.
        c.     Each of your outstanding options to acquire Company common stock that is vested and exercisable as of the Separation Date may be exercised by you during the Company's next open trading window, tentatively scheduled to commence August 23, 2010 and end September 7, 2010, in accordance with the terms thereof and the terms of the Hewlett-Packard Company 2004 Stock Incentive Plan. Any such option that you fail to exercise prior to the close of business on the last day of the Company's next open trading window, tentatively scheduled to be September 7, 2010, will expire and be forfeited at such time without consideration. Each of your outstanding options to acquire Company common stock that are unvested as of the Separation Date shall expire and be forfeited on the Separation Date without consideration.
        d.     The performance-based restricted stock units granted to you on January 17, 2008 shall become eligible to vest and be settled in shares of Company common stock as described on Exhibit A hereto.
        e.     The time-based restricted stock units granted to you on December 11, 2009 shall be settled in shares of Company common stock on December 11, 2010 with respect to that number of shares of Company common stock having an aggregate value on December 11, 2010 (determined based on the per share closing trading price for Company common stock on December 11, 2010) equal to the product of 15,853 multiplied by the lesser of (i) the per share closing trading price of Company common stock on the Separation Date or (ii) the per share closing trading price of Company common stock on December 11, 2010, rounded to the nearest whole share of Company common stock, subject to applicable withholdings. Except with respect to those restricted stock units that become eligible to vest and be settled as provided in paragraph 2.d. and this paragraph 2.e., each other outstanding restricted stock unit held by you as of the Separation Date, whether eligible to vest based on service or the attainment of performance goals, shall expire and be forfeited on the Separation Date without consideration.
        3.
    Accrued Benefits.
    Whether or not you choose to sign this Separation Agreement or exercise your revocation right referenced in Section 10.d hereof, you will be entitled to receive (i) unpaid base salary accrued up to the Separation Date, (ii) any accrued but unused vacation days, and (iii) unreimbursed business expenses (in accordance with usual Company policies and practice), to the extent not theretofore paid, and (iv) vested amounts payable to you under the Company's 401(k) plan and other retirement and deferred compensation plans in accordance with the terms of such plans and applicable law, in each event subject to applicable withholdings. You will also be entitled to any rights to contribution, advancement of expenses, defense or indemnification you may have under the Company's Articles of Incorporation, Bylaws, any separate indemnification agreement, as applicable, or as provided under applicable law. Other than as set forth in this Agreement, after the Separation Date, you shall not receive any base salary, annual bonus, long term incentive award, welfare, retirement, perquisite, fringe benefit, or other benefit plan coverage or coverage under any other practice, policy or program as may be in effect from time to time, applying to senior officers or other employees of the Company; provided; however, that the foregoing shall not provide for any right to indemnification or advancement for any expenses or liabilities incurred by you, including, but not limited to any attorney's fees, amounts paid in settlement and any related costs, arising out of or resulting from any litigation matters settled or otherwise resolved by you prior to the date hereof without the Company's consent.
        4.
    No Other Payments or Benefits.
    You acknowledge and agree that, other than the payments and benefits expressly set forth in this Agreement, you have received all compensation to which you are entitled from the Company, and you are not entitled to any other payments or benefits from the Company.
        5.
    Continuing Obligations.
    You acknowledge and affirm your continuing obligations under the HP Agreement Regarding Confidential Information and Proprietary Developments you signed on February 6, 2008, February 26, 2009 and February 12, 2010, (the "Confidentiality Agreements");
provided
,
however
, that you hereby agree that Section 7 of the Confidentiality Agreement (Protective Covenants) shall apply for the period of twenty-four (24) months commencing on the Separation Date and;
provided
,
further
, that you agree that Section 2 of the Confidentiality Agreement (Confidential Information) shall apply at all times following the Separation Date.
        6.
    Nondisparagement.
    You agree that you will not, with intent to damage, disparage or encourage or induce others to disparage any of the Company, its subsidiaries and affiliates, together with all of their respective past and present directors and officers and each of their successors and assigns (collectively, the "Company Entities and Persons"). Nothing in this Separation Agreement is intended to or shall prevent you from providing, or limiting testimony in response to a valid subpoena, court order, regulatory request or other judicial, administrative or legal process or otherwise as required by law. You agree that you will notify the Company in writing as promptly as practicable after receiving any request for testimony or information in response to a subpoena, court order, regulatory request or other judicial, administrative or legal process or otherwise as required by law, regarding the anticipated testimony or information to be provided and at least ten (10) days prior to providing such testimony or information (or, if such notice is not possible under the circumstances, with as much prior notice as is possible).
        7.
    Cooperation.
    Prior to and after the Separation Date, you agree that you will reasonably cooperate with the Company, its subsidiaries and affiliates, at any level, and any of their officers, directors, shareholders, or employees: (A) concerning requests for information about the business of the Company or its subsidiaries or affiliates or your involvement and participation therein, (B) in connection with any investigation or review by the Company or any federal, state or local regulatory, quasi-regulatory or self-governing authority (including, without limitation, the Securities and Exchange Commission) as any such investigation or review relates to events or occurrences that transpired while you were employed by the Company and (C) with respect to transition and succession matters. Your cooperation shall include, but not be limited to (taking into account your personal and professional
obligations, including those to any new employer or entity to which you provide services), being available to meet and speak with officers or employees of the Company and/or the Company's counsel at reasonable times and locations, executing accurate and truthful documents and taking such other actions as may reasonably be requested by the Company and/or the Company's counsel to effectuate the foregoing. You shall be entitled to reimbursement, upon receipt by the Company of suitable documentation, for reasonable and necessary travel and other expenses which you may incur at the specific request of the Company and as approved by the Company in advance and in accordance with its policies and procedures established from time to time.
        8.
    Company Property.
    On or prior to the Separation Date, you shall return to the Company all Company property in your possession or use, including, without limitation, all automobiles, fax machines, printers, cell phones, credit cards, building-access cards and keys, other electronic equipment, and any records, software or other data from your personal computers or laptops which are not themselves Company property, however stored, relating to the Company's confidential information.
        9.
    Taxes.
    The parties acknowledge and agree that: the form and timing of the Separation Amount and the other payments and benefits to be provided pursuant to this Agreement are intended to be exempt from or to comply with one or more exceptions to the requirements of Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and applicable Treasury Regulations thereunder ("Section 409A"), including the requirement for a six-month suspension on payments to "specified employees" as defined in Section 409A that are not otherwise permitted to be paid within the six-month suspension period. The parties further acknowledge and agree that for purposes of Section 409A you do not have discretion with respect to the timing of the payment of any amounts provided under this Separation Agreement. Notwithstanding any provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the Company, its affiliates, subsidiaries, successors, and each of their respective officers, directors, employees and representatives, neither represent nor warrant the tax treatment under any federal, state, local, or foreign laws or regulations thereunder (individually and collectively referred to as the "Tax Laws") of any payment or benefits contemplated by this Separation Agreement including, but not limited to, when and to what extent such payments or benefits may be subject to tax, penalties and interest under the Tax Laws.
        
10.   Release
.
        a.     You agree that, in consideration of this Separation Agreement, you hereby waive, release and forever discharge any and all claims and rights which you ever had, now have or may have against the Company and any of its subsidiaries or affiliated companies, and their respective successors and assigns, current and former officers, agents, directors, representatives and employees, various benefits committees, and their respective successors and assigns, heirs, executors and personal and legal representatives, based on any act, event or omission occurring before you execute this Separation Agreement arising out of, during or relating to your employment or services with the Company or the termination of such employment or services, except as provided below. This waiver and release includes, but is not limited to, any claims which could be asserted now or in the future, under: common law, including, but not limited to, breach of express or implied duties, wrongful termination, defamation, or violation of public policy; any policies, practices, or procedures of the Company; any federal or state statutes or regulations including, but not limited to, Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended, 42 U.S.C. 2000e
et seq.
, the Civil Rights Act of 1866 and 1871, the Americans With Disabilities Act, 42 U.S.C. 12101
et seq.
, the Employee Retirement Income Security Act ("ERISA"), 29 U.S.C. 1001
et seq.
(excluding those rights relating exclusively to employee pension benefits as governed by ERISA), the Family and Medical Leave Act, 29 U.S.C. 2601
et. seq.,
the California Family Rights Act, as amended, the California Fair Employment and Housing Act, as amended, California Labor Code Section 1400
et seq
., any contract of employment, express or implied; any provision of any other law, common or statutory, of the United States, California or any applicable state.
Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing contained in this paragraph 10.a. shall (i) subject to paragraphs 10.c and 10.d and the ADEA Release at Exhibit B, impair any rights or potential claims that you may have under the federal Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 (the "ADEA"); (ii) waive, release or otherwise discharge any claim or cause of action that cannot legally be waived, including, but not limited to, any claim for unpaid wages, workers' compensation benefits, unemployment benefits and any claims under section 2802 of the California Labor Code; (iii) be construed to prohibit you from bringing appropriate proceedings to enforce this Separation Agreement; (iv) subject to the limitations set forth in Section 3 herein, affect any rights of defense or indemnification, or to be held harmless, or any coverage under directors and officers liability insurance or any other insurance or rights or claims of contribution or advancement of expenses that you have; or (v) affect any rights as a shareholder of the Company that you have.
        b.     For the purpose of implementing a full and complete release, you understand and agree that this Separation Agreement is intended to waive and release all claims, if any, which you may have and which you may not now know or suspect to exist in your favor against the Company and any of its subsidiaries or affiliated companies, and their respective successors and assigns, current and former officers, agents, directors, representatives and employees, various benefits committees, and their respective successors and assigns, heirs, executors and personal and legal representatives and this Separation Agreement extinguishes those claims. Accordingly, you expressly waive all rights afforded by Section 1542 of the Civil Code of the State of California ("Section 1542") and any similar statute or regulation in any other applicable jurisdiction. Section 1542 states as follows:
A GENERAL RELEASE DOES NOT EXTEND TO CLAIMS WHICH THE CREDITOR DOES NOT KNOW OR SUSPECT TO EXIST IN HIS OR HER FAVOR AT THE TIME OF EXECUTING THE RELEASE, WHICH IF KNOWN BY HIM OR HER MUST HAVE MATERIALLY AFFECTED HIS OR HER SETTLEMENT WITH THE DEBTOR.
        c.     By signing this Separation Agreement, you represent that you have not and will not in the future commence any action or proceeding arising out of the matters released hereby, and that you will not seek or be entitled to any award of legal or equitable relief in any such action or proceeding that may be commenced on your behalf. This Separation Agreement shall not prevent you from filing a charge with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (or similar state or local agency) or participating in any investigation conducted by the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission (or similar state or local agency);
provided
,
however
, you acknowledge and agree that any claims for personal relief in connection with such a charge or investigation (such as reinstatement or monetary damages) would be and hereby are barred. The Company has advised you to consult with an attorney of your choosing prior to signing this Separation Agreement. You represent that you understand and agree that you have the right and have been given the opportunity to review this Separation Agreement and the ADEA Release (defined below), with an attorney. You further represent that you understand and agree that the Company is under no obligation to offer this Separation Agreement, and that you are under no obligation to consent to this waiver and release of claims.
        d.     In accordance with the ADEA release contained in Exhibit B hereto (the "ADEA Release"), you shall have twenty-one (21) days from the date of this Agreement to consider the ADEA Release and, once you have signed the ADEA Release, you shall have seven (7) additional days from the date of execution to revoke your consent to the ADEA Release. Any such revocation shall be made in writing so as to be received by the Company prior to the eighth (8) day following your execution of the ADEA Release. If no such revocation occurs, the ADEA Release shall become effective on the eighth (8) day following your execution, no earlier than the Separation Date, of the ADEA Release (the "Effective Date").
th
th
        11.
    Enforcement.
    If any provision of this Separation Agreement is held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be illegal, void or unenforceable, such provision shall have no effect; however, the remaining provisions shall be enforced to the maximum extent possible. Further, if a court should determine that any portion of this Separation Agreement is overbroad or unreasonable, such provision shall be given effect to the maximum extent possible by narrowing or enforcing in part that aspect of the provision found overbroad or unreasonable. In addition, you agree that your willful and knowing failure to return Company property that relates to the maintenance of security of the Company Entities and Persons shall entitle the Company to injunctive and other equitable relief.
        12.
    No Admission.
    This Separation Agreement is not intended, and shall not be construed, as an admission that either you or the Company Entities and Persons have violated any federal, state or local law (statutory or decisional), ordinance or regulation, breached any contract or committed any wrong whatsoever.
        13.
    Successors.
    This Separation Agreement is binding upon, and shall inure to the benefit of, the parties and their respective heirs, executors, administrators, successors and assigns.
        14.
    Choice of Law.
    This Separation Agreement shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of the State of California without regard to the principles of conflicts of law.
        15.
    Entire Agreement.
    You acknowledge that this Separation Agreement constitutes the complete understanding between the Company and you regarding its subject matter and supersedes any and all agreements, understandings, and discussions, whether written or oral, between you and any of the Company Entities and Persons, including your prior employment agreement dated March 29, 2005;
provided
,
however
, that notwithstanding the foregoing, the Confidentiality Agreements shall remain in full force and effect in accordance with their terms as modified by this Separation Agreement. No other promises or agreements shall be binding on the Company unless in writing and signed by both the Company and you after the date of this Separation Agreement.
        16.
    Effective Date.
    You may accept this Separation Agreement by signing it and returning it to the Company's General Counsel at Hewlett-Packard Company, 3000 Hanover Street, Palo Alto, CA 94304. The effective date of this Separation Agreement shall be the date it is signed by both parties, provided that the provisions of paragraph 2 shall not become effective until the Effective Date, as defined in paragraph 10.d. In the event you do not accept this Separation Agreement (including the ADEA Release) as set forth in this paragraph 16, this Separation Agreement, including but not limited to the obligation of the Company hereunder to provide the payments and other benefits described herein, shall be deemed automatically null and void.
        17.
    Headings.
    The headings used herein are for the convenience of reference only, do not constitute part of this Separation Agreement and shall not be deemed to limit or otherwise affect any of the provisions of this Separation Agreement.
        18.
    Counterparts.
    This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, including emailed or telecopied facsimiles, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which together shall constitute one and the same instrument.
        IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Separation Agreement as of the date set forth below.
        On the date that performance-based restricted stock units granted on January 17, 2008 relating to the 2008-2010 fiscal year performance period are settled for employees of the Company generally, you will be entitled to receive a number of shares of Company Common Stock equal to the sum of (i) your Banked PRUs and (ii) the product of (x) your Ongoing PRUs and (y) 0.75, subject to applicable withholdings.
        The defined terms on this Exhibit A shall have the following meanings:
        2008 Performance-Based Stock Unit AwardYour award of performance-based restricted stock units representing hypothetical shares of Company common stock granted to you pursuant to the Award Agreement.
        Award AgreementThe Stock Notification and Award Agreement, outlining the terms of your grant of performance-based restricted stock units on January 17, 2008.
        Banked PRUsThe portion of your 2008 Performance-Based Stock Unit Award treated as a Conditional PRU Award (as defined in your Award Agreement) relating to cash flow milestones achieved for the Company's 2008 and 2009 fiscal years, multiplied by the Total Shareholder Return Multiplier.
        Ongoing PRUsThe portion of the 2008 Performance-Based Stock Unit Award (other than the Banked PRUs) that would have become a Conditional PRU Award had you remained employed with the Company through October 31, 2010, based on actual Company performance through such date, multiplied by the lesser of (i) the Total Shareholder Return Multiplier and (ii) what the Total Shareholder Return Multiplier would have been if the per share price of Company common stock on October 31, 2010 was the per share closing trading price of Company common stock on the Separation Date.
        Total Shareholder Return MultiplierThe total shareholder return multiplier applicable to the 2008 Performance-Based Stock Unit Award, calculated in accordance with the terms of the Award Agreement.
        1.     Mark V. Hurd ("Executive" or "you") knowingly and voluntarily, on behalf of yourself and your agents, attorneys, successors, assigns, heirs and executors, releases and forever discharges Hewlett-Packard Company (the "Company") and all of their subsidiaries and affiliates, together with all of their respective past and present directors, managers, officers, shareholders, partners, employees, agents, attorneys and servants, representatives, administrators and fiduciaries (except that in the case of agents, representatives, administrators, attorneys and fiduciaries, only to the extent in any way related to his or her employment with, or the business affairs of the Company) and each of their predecessors, successors and assigns (collectively, the "Releasees") from any and all claims, charges, complaints, promises, agreements, controversies, liens, demands, causes of action, obligations, suits, disputes, judgments, debts, bonds, bills, covenants, contracts, variances, trespasses, executions, damages and liabilities of any nature whatsoever relating in any way to your rights under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended (the "ADEA"), whether known or unknown, suspected or unsuspected, which you or your executors, administrators, successors or assigns ever had, now have, or may hereafter claim to have against the Releasees in law or equity, arising on or before the date this ADEA Release (as defined below) is executed by you, and whether or not previously asserted before any state or federal court or before any state or federal agency or governmental entity (the "ADEA Release"). This ADEA Release includes, without limitation, any rights or claims relating in any way to your employment relationship with the Company or any of the Releasees, or the termination thereof, arising under the ADEA, including compensatory damages, punitive damages, attorney's fees, costs, expenses, and any other type of damage or relief. You represent that you have not commenced or joined in any claim, charge, action or proceeding whatsoever against the Company or any of the Releasees arising out of or relating any of the matters set forth in this ADEA Release. You further agree that you shall not be entitled to any personal recovery in any claim, charge, action or proceeding whatsoever against the Company or any of the Releasees for any of the matters set forth in this ADEA Release.
        2.     The Company has advised you to consult with an attorney of your choosing prior to signing this ADEA Release. You represent that you understand and agree that you have the right and have been given the opportunity to review this ADEA Release with an attorney. You further represent that you understand and agree that the Company is under no obligation to offer you this ADEA Release, and that you are under no obligation to consent to the ADEA Release, and that you have entered into this ADEA Release freely and voluntarily.
        3.     You shall have twenty-one (21) days to consider this ADEA Release, and once you have signed this ADEA Release, you shall have seven (7) additional days from the date of execution to revoke your consent to this ADEA Release. Any such revocation shall be made in writing so as to be received by the Company's General Counsel prior to the eighth (8) day following your execution of this ADEA Release. If no such revocation occurs, this ADEA Release shall become effective on the eighth (8) day following your execution of this ADEA Release (the "Effective Date"). In the event that you revoke your consent, this ADEA Release shall be null and void.
th
th
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Executive has executed this ADEA Release as of the date set forth below.
QuickLinks
Exhibit 10.1

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
 
2/5
 
3/5
 
4/5
 
5/5
 


