FILE:HPQ/HPQ-8K-20100323164631.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
o
           
Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act (17 CFR 230.425)
 
o
           
Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14a-12)
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
 
o
           
Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 5.02
                
Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
 
(e)
                                                         
              
On March 17, 2010, the stockholders of Hewlett-Packard Company ("HP") approved the Amended and Restated Hewlett-Packard Company 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Amended Plan").  The Amended Plan previously had been approved by the HR and Compensation Committee of the HP Board of Directors, subject to stockholder approval.
 
Under the Amended Plan, HP may grant stock options, restricted stock awards, restricted stock unit awards, performance-based unit awards and cash awards to employees of HP and its affiliates.  In addition, HP may grant annual retainer awards consisting of stock options and/or restricted stock units to non-employee directors.
 
The Hewlett Packard Company 2004 Stock Incentive Plan (the "Original Plan") was originally approved by HP stockholders on March 17, 2004.  The Amended Plan provides for the following changes to the Original Plan:
 
                 
Makes an additional 65,000,000 shares of HP common stock available for issuance;
 
                 
Provides that shares subject to an award that is forfeited or settled in cash are available for future awards;
 
                 
Adds HP's non-employee directors as eligible participants and establishes the terms for awards to non-employee directors;
 
                 
Removes a provision in the Original Plan permitting the grant of discounted stock options;
 
                 
Removes provisions in the Original Plan establishing special treatment upon termination of employment;
 
                 
Amends the performance criteria to make these criteria consistent with the performance criteria under the Hewlett-Packard Company 2005 Pay-for-Results Plan; and
 
                 
Extends the expiration of the Original Plan for ten years.
 
A description of the material terms and conditions of the Amended Plan appears on pages 29 to 33 of HP's definitive proxy statement on Schedule 14A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 27, 2010 (the "Proxy Statement").  That description is incorporated by reference herein, and a copy of that description is filed as Exhibit 10.1 hereto.  Such description and the other information relating to the Amended Plan included herein are qualified in their entirety by reference to the actual terms of the Amended Plan, which is attached as Exhibit 10.2 hereto.
 
Stock options granted to employees of HP and its affiliates will generally be granted for an eight-year term, with a four-year vesting schedule, and with a grant price that is equal to the fair market value of HP shares on the grant date.  The option term will generally be shorter if the grantee terminates employment before the option expires, and the vesting schedule may be modified at the discretion of the plan administrator.  The plan administrator has the discretion to establish the treatment of stock options upon termination of employment.  Currently, the post-termination exercise period is 90 days if termination of employment is due to workforce reduction, one year if termination of employment is due to death, and three years if termination of employment is due to long-term disability or retirement.
Restricted stock and restricted stock unit awards granted to employees of HP and its affiliates with time-based vesting will be subject to a vesting schedule determined by the plan administrator.  The plan administrator also has the discretion to determine the treatment upon termination of employment.  Currently, unvested awards will generally be forfeited if the grantee voluntarily terminates employment before the award is vested; if termination of employment is due to long-term disability or retirement, awards continue to vest (subject to certain conditions); if termination of employment is due to workforce reduction or death, vesting is prorated based on the period of service during the vesting period.
 
Performance-based restricted units may be awarded under the Amended Plan to employees of HP and its affiliates.  Currently, such awards are granted for a target number of shares that will be issued if certain performance criteria are met by HP over a three-year performance period.  The performance criteria currently are annual targets based on cash flow from operations as a percentage of revenue and an overall "modifier" based on HP's total stockholder return relative to the S&P 500 over the three-year performance period.  The number of shares of HP common stock released at the end of the performance period will range from zero to two times the target number depending on performance during the period.  The plan administrator has the discretion to establish the treatment upon termination of employment.  Currently, performance-based restricted units are forfeited if the grantee voluntarily terminates employment before the end of the performance period, and the units are prorated if termination of employment during the performance period is due to workforce reduction, death, long-term disability or retirement.
 
Performance-based cash awards may be granted under the Amended Plan to employees of HP and its affiliates.  Cash awards may be issued subject to one or more of the qualifying performance criteria specified in the Amended Plan, such as revenue, earnings (including gross margin, earnings before interest and taxes, earnings before taxes, and net earnings), earnings per share, cash flow from operations, operating profit, total shareholder return, market share, or such other similar criteria as may be determined by the plan administrator.  The plan administrator has the discretion to establish treatment upon termination of employment.  Cash awards will generally be forfeited if the grantee voluntarily terminates employment before the end of the performance period, and awards will generally be pro-rated if termination of employment during the performance period is due to workforce reduction, death, long-term disability or retirement.
 
Item 5.07
                
Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.
 
HP held its annual meeting of stockholders (the "Annual Meeting") on March 17, 2010 in Mountain View, California. At the Annual Meeting, HP stockholders approved four proposals.  The proposals are described in detail in the Proxy Statement.
 
Proposal 1
 
HP's stockholders elected eleven individuals to the Board of Directors as set forth below:
 
Proposal 2
 
HP stockholders ratified the appointment of Ernst & Young LLP as the company's independent registered public accounting firm for the 2010 fiscal year as set forth below:
 
Proposal 3
 
HP stockholders approved the Amended Plan as set forth below:
 
 
Proposal 4
 
HP stockholders approved a proposal to conduct an annual advisory vote on executive compensation as set forth below:
 
Item 9.01
                
Financial Statements and Exhibits.
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 10.1
 
The principal features of the Amended Plan are summarized below. The following summary of the Amended Plan does not purport to be a complete description of all of the provisions of the Amended Plan. It is qualified in its entirety by reference to the complete text of the Amended Plan, which has been filed with the SEC as Annex A to this proxy statement. Any HP stockholder who wishes to obtain a copy of the Amended Plan may do so upon written request to the Secretary at HP's principal executive offices.
 
General.
  The purpose of the Amended Plan is to encourage ownership in HP by key personnel whose long-term employment is considered essential to HP's continued progress, thereby aligning participants' and stockholders' interests. Stock options and stock awards, including stock units, and cash awards may be granted under the Amended Plan. Options granted under the Amended Plan may be either "incentive stock options," as defined in Section 422 of the Code, or non-statutory stock options.
 
Administration.
  The Amended Plan may be administered by the Board, a committee appointed by the Board or its delegate (as applicable, the "Administrator").
 
Eligibility.
  Awards may be granted under the Amended Plan to employees of HP and its affiliates and to non-employee directors. Incentive stock options may be granted only to employees of HP or its subsidiaries. There are approximately 304,000 employees and ten non-employee directors eligible to receive awards under the Amended Plan. The Administrator, in its discretion, selects the employees to whom awards may be granted, the time or times at which such awards are granted, and the terms of such awards.
 
Section 162(m) Limitations.
  Section 162(m) of the Code generally disallows a tax deduction to public companies for compensation in excess of $1 million paid to the chief executive officer and the three other most highly compensated officers. Certain performance-based compensation is specifically exempt from the deduction limit if it otherwise meets the requirements of Section 162(m). One of the requirements for equity compensation plans is that there must be a limit to the number of shares granted to any one individual under the plan. Accordingly, the Amended Plan provides that no employee may be granted more than 1,500,000 shares in any calendar year, except that an employee may be granted awards covering up to an additional 1,500,000 shares in connection with his or her initial employment with HP. The maximum amount payable pursuant to that portion of a cash award granted under the Amended Plan for any fiscal year to any employee that is intended to satisfy the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code is $15,000,000. Stockholder approval of this proposal will constitute stockholder approval of these limitations for Section 162(m) purposes.
 
(1) The contents of this document appear on pages 29-33 of HP's definitive proxy statement on Schedule 14A filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 27, 2010 and are incorporated by reference into HP's Current Report on Form 8-K to which this document is attached as Exhibit 10.1.
 
Terms and Conditions of Options.
  Each option is evidenced by a stock option agreement between HP and the optionee and is subject to the following additional terms and conditions.
 
Exercise Price.
  The Administrator determines the exercise price of options at the time the options are granted. The exercise price of a stock option may not be less than 100% of the fair market value of the common stock on the date such option is granted, although certain replacement options with lower exercise prices may be granted to service providers of entities acquired by HP. The fair market value of the common stock is determined as the closing quoted sales price for the common stock on the date the option is granted (or if no sales were reported that day, the last preceding day a sale occurred). On January 25, 2010, the closing price of HP common stock on the NYSE was $50.06 per share. No option may be repriced to reduce the exercise price of such option without stockholder approval (except in connection with a change in HP's capitalization).
 
Exercise of Option; Form of Consideration.
  The Administrator determines when options become exercisable and in its discretion may accelerate the vesting of any outstanding option. The method of payment for shares issued upon exercise of an option is specified in each option agreement or by the Administrator at the time of exercise of the option. The Amended Plan permits payment to be made by cash, check, wire transfer, other shares of common stock of HP (with some restrictions), broker assisted cashless exercises, any other form of consideration permitted by applicable law, or any combination thereof.
 
Term of Option.
  The term of an option may be no more than ten years from the date of grant or 10
1
/
2
 years in certain jurisdictions outside of the United States. No option may be exercised after the expiration of its term.
 
Termination of Employment.
  If an optionee's employment terminates for any reason, then all options held by the optionee under the Amended Plan generally will terminate immediately upon the optionee's termination unless determined otherwise by the Plan Administrator.
 
Other Provisions.
  The stock option agreement may contain other terms, provisions and conditions not inconsistent with the Amended Plan, as may be determined by the Administrator.
 
Terms and Conditions of Stock Awards.
  Each stock award agreement will contain provisions regarding (1) the number of shares subject to such stock award or a formula for determining such number, (2) the purchase price of the shares, if any, and the means of payment for the shares, (3) the performance criteria, if any, and level of achievement versus these criteria that will determine the number of shares granted, issued, retainable and vested, as applicable, (4) such terms and conditions on the grant, issuance, vesting and forfeiture of the shares, as applicable, as may be determined from time to time by the Administrator, (5) restrictions on the transferability of the stock award, and (6) such further terms and conditions, in each case not inconsistent with the Amended Plan, as may be determined from time to time by the Administrator.
Termination of Employment.
  In the case of stock awards, including stock units, unless the Administrator determines otherwise, the restricted stock or restricted stock unit agreement will provide that the unvested stock or stock units will be forfeited upon the awardee's termination of employment for any reason.
 
Vesting.
  The vesting of a stock award may be subject to performance criteria, continued service of the awardee, or both.
 
Non-Employee Director Awards.
  Non-employee directors are eligible only for annual retainer awards and are not eligible for any other type of award that is authorized under the Amended Plan. Annual retainer awards paid in the form of equity are granted in the form of non-statutory stock options or restricted stock units. The non-employee directors can elect to receive the annual equity retainer and the annual cash retainer in the form of stock options or restricted stock units, provided that such election is made within 25 days after the annual meeting at which they are elected. If no election is made within this period, the annual equity retainer will be in the form of restricted stock units and the annual cash retainer will be paid in cash. The awards are granted automatically one month after the beginning of the director's year of service. The exercise price of director stock options cannot be less that 100% of the fair market value of a share of HP common stock on the grant date.
 
The number of shares subject to non-statutory stock option awards granted to non-employee directors is determined as follows:
 
 
The Administrator determines the Multiplier prior to the grant date using a modified Black-Scholes option valuation method that takes into account the following factors: (1) the fair market value of HP common stock on the date the Multiplier is determined; (2) the average length of time that HP stock options are held by optionees prior to exercise; (3) the risk-free rate of return based on the term determined in (2) and on the interest rates of U.S. government securities; (4) the annual dividend yield for HP common stock; and (5) the volatility of HP common stock over the ten-year period preceding the date that the Multiplier is determined.
 
The number of shares subject to restricted stock unit awards granted to non-employee directors is determined as follows:
 
 
Cash Awards.
  Each cash award agreement will contain provisions regarding (1) the target and maximum amount payable to the awardee as a cash award, (2) the performance criteria and level of achievement versus the criteria that will determine the amount of such payment, (3) the period as to which performance shall be measured for establishing the amount of any payment, (4) the timing of any payment earned by virtue of performance, (5) restrictions on the alienation or transfer of the cash award prior to actual payment, (6) forfeiture provisions, and (7) such further terms and conditions, in each case not inconsistent with the Amended Plan, as may be determined from time to time by the Administrator. The maximum amount payable as a cash award that is settled for cash may be a multiple of the target amount payable, but the maximum amount payable pursuant to that portion of a cash award granted under the Amended Plan for any fiscal year to any awardee that is intended to satisfy the requirement for "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code shall not exceed $15,000,000.
 
Nontransferability.
  Unless otherwise determined by the Administrator, awards granted under the Amended Plan are not transferable other than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and options may be exercised during the optionee's lifetime only by the optionee. The Administrator will have the sole discretion to permit the transfer of an award.
 
Qualifying Performance Criteria.
  Qualifying Performance Criteria means any one of more of the performance criteria listed below, either individually, alternatively or in combination, applied to either HP as a whole or to a business unit, affiliate or business segment, either individually, alternatively or in any combination, and measured either annually or cumulatively over a period of years, on an absolute basis, or relative to a pre-established target, to previous years' results or to a designated comparison group, in each case as specified by the Administrator in the award agreement. The performance criteria may be (1) cash flow or cash conversion cycle, (2) earnings (including gross margin, earnings before interest and taxes, earnings before taxes, and net earnings), (3) earnings per share, (4) growth in earnings or earnings per share, cash flow, revenue, gross margin, operating expense or operating expense as a percentage of revenue, (5) stock price, (6) return on equity or average stockholders' equity, (7) total stockholder return, (8) return on capital, (9) return on assets or net assets, (10) return on investment, (11) revenue, (12) income or net income, (13) operating income or net operating income, (14) operating profit, net operating profit, or controllable operating profit, (15) operating margin or operating expense or operating expense as a percentage of revenue, (16) return on operating revenue, (17) market share or customer indicators, (18) contract awards or backlog, (19) overhead or other expense reduction, (20) growth in stockholder value relative to the moving average of the S&P 500 Index or HP's peer group index, (21) credit rating, (22) strategic plan development and implementation, attainment of research and development milestones or new product invention or innovation, (23) succession plan development and implementation, (24) improvement in productivity or workforce diversity, (25) attainment of objective operating goals and employee metrics, (26) economic value added, and (27) such other similar criteria as may be determined by the Administrator.
 
To the extent consistent with Section 162(m) of the Code, the Administrator may appropriately adjust any evaluation of performance under a Qualifying Performance Criteria to exclude any of the following events that occurs during a performance period: (A) asset write-downs; (B) litigation or claim judgments or settlements; (C) the effect of changes in tax law, accounting principles or other such laws or provisions affecting reported results; (D) accruals for reorganization and restructuring programs; and (E) any extraordinary non-recurring items as described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30 and/or in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations appearing in HP's annual report to shareholders for the applicable year.
 
Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization, Dissolution, Merger or Sale of Assets.
  Subject to any required action by HP's stockholders, (1) the number and kind of shares available for issuance under the Amended Plan and/or covered by each outstanding award, (2) the price per share subject to each outstanding award and (3) the share limitations set forth in Section 3 of the Amended Plan will be proportionately adjusted for any increase or decrease in the number or kind of issued shares resulting from a stock split, reverse stock split, dividend or other distribution (whether in the form of cash, shares, other securities or property (other than regular cash dividends)) combination or reclassification of HP's stock, or any other increase or decrease in the number of issued shares of HP's stock effected without receipt of consideration by HP; provided, however, that conversion of any convertible securities of HP shall not be deemed to have been "effected without receipt of consideration." Such adjustment shall be made by the Administrator, whose determination in that respect shall be final, binding and conclusive. Except as expressly provided in the Amended Plan, no issuance by HP of shares of stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, shall affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number or price of shares of common stock subject to an award.
 
In the event of a liquidation or dissolution, any unexercised options or stock awards will terminate. The Administrator, in its discretion, may provide that each optionee shall have the right to exercise all of the optionee's options, including those not otherwise exercisable, until the date ten days prior to the consummation of the liquidation or dissolution and be fully vested in any stock awards.
 
In the event of a change of control of HP, as defined in the Amended Plan and determined by the Board, the Board, in its discretion, may provide for the assumption, substitution or adjustment of each outstanding award, accelerate the vesting of options and terminate any restrictions on stock awards or cash awards, or cancel awards for a cash payment to the awardee.
 
Amendment and Termination of the Plan.
  The Administrator may amend, alter, suspend or terminate the Amended Plan or any award agreement, or any part thereof, at any time and for any reason. However, HP will obtain stockholder approval for any amendment to the Amended Plan to the extent required by applicable laws or stock exchange rules. In addition, without limiting the foregoing, unless approved by HP stockholders, no such amendment shall be made that would: (1) increase the maximum number of shares for which awards may be granted under the Amended Plan, other than
 
an increase pursuant to a change in HP's capitalization, (2) reduce the minimum exercise price for options granted under the Amended Plan, (3) reduce the exercise price of outstanding options, or (4) materially expand the class of persons eligible to receive awards under the Amended Plan. No such action by the Administrator or stockholders may alter or impair any award previously granted under the Amended Plan without the written consent of the awardee. Unless terminated earlier, the Amended Plan shall terminate on March 16, 2020.

Exhibit 10.2
 
AMENDED AND RESTATED
HEWLETT-PACKARD COMPANY 2004 STOCK INCENTIVE PLAN
 
1.
                                     
Purposes of the Plan.
 
The purpose of this Plan is to encourage ownership in the Company by key personnel whose long-term employment is considered essential to the Company's continued progress and, thereby, encourage recipients to act in the shareholders' interest and share in the Company's success.
 
2.
                                     
Definitions.
 
As used herein, the following definitions shall apply:
 
(a)
                                
"Administrator"
means the Board, any Committees or such delegates as shall be administering the Plan in accordance with Section 4 of the Plan.
 
(b)
                                
"Affiliate"
means any entity that is directly or indirectly controlled by the Company or any entity in which the Company has a significant ownership interest as determined by the Administrator provided that the entity is one with respect to which Common Stock will qualify as "service recipient stock" under Code Section 409A.
 
(c)
                                 
"Annual Equity Retainer"
shall mean the amount which a Non-Employee Director will be entitled to receive in the form of equity for serving as a director in a relevant Director Plan Year, but shall not include reimbursement for expenses, fees associated with service on any committee of the Board, any cash compensation or fees with respect to any other services to be provided to HP.
 
(d)
                                 
"Applicable Laws"
means the requirements relating to the administration of stock option plans under U.S. federal and state laws, any stock exchange or quotation system on which the Company has listed or submitted for quotation the Common Stock to the extent provided under the terms of the Company's agreement with such exchange or quotation system and, with respect to Awards subject to the laws of any foreign jurisdiction where Awards are, or will be, granted under the Plan, the laws of such jurisdiction.
 
(e)
                                 
"Award"
means a Cash Award, Stock Award, or Option granted in accordance with the terms of the Plan.
 
(f)
                                  
"Awardee"
means an individual who has been granted an Award under the Plan.
 
(g)
                                 
"Award Agreement"
means a Cash Award Agreement, Stock Award Agreement and/or Option Agreement, which may be in written or electronic format, in such form and with such terms as may be specified by the Administrator, evidencing the terms and conditions of an individual Award. Each Award Agreement is subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan. An Award Agreement may be in the form of either (i) an agreement to be either executed by both the Awardee and the Company or offered and accepted electronically as the Administrator shall determine or (ii) certificates, notices or similar instruments as approved by the Administrator.
 
(h)
                                
"Board"
means the Board of Directors of the Company.
 
(i)
                                    
"Cash Award"
means a bonus opportunity awarded under Section 12 pursuant to which a Participant may become entitled to receive an amount based on the satisfaction of such performance criteria as are specified in the agreement or other documents evidencing the Award (the "").
Cash Award Agreement
(j)
                                   
"Change in Control"
means any of the following, unless the Administrator provides otherwise:
 
i.
                                         
any merger or consolidation (other than a merger or consolidation in which 50% of the voting power of the voting securities of the surviving entity is controlled by the shareholders of the Company immediately prior to the transaction) in which the Company shall not be the surviving entity (or survives only as a subsidiary of another entity whose shareholders did not own all or substantially all of the Common Stock in substantially the same proportions as immediately prior to such transaction),
 
ii.
                                      
the sale of all or substantially all of the Company's assets to any other person or entity (other than a wholly-owned subsidiary),
 
iii.
                                   
the acquisition of beneficial ownership of a controlling interest (including, without limitation, power to vote) the outstanding shares of Common Stock by any person or entity (including a "group" as defined by or under Section 13(d)(3) of the Exchange Act),
 
iv.
                                  
the dissolution or liquidation of the Company, or
 
v.
                                     
a contested election of Directors, as a result of which or in connection with which the persons who were Directors before such election or their nominees cease to constitute a majority of the Board.
 
(k)
                                
"Code"
means the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and the regulations promulgated thereunder.
 
(l)
                                    
"Committee"
means a committee of Directors appointed by the Board in accordance with Section 4 of the Plan.  The HR and Compensation Committee of the Board shall be deemed a "Committee" for purposes of the Plan.
 
(m)
                            
"Common Stock"
means the common stock of the Company.
 
(n)
                                
"Company"
means Hewlett-Packard Company, a Delaware corporation, or its successor.
 
(o)
                                
"Conversion Award"
has the meaning set forth in Section 4(b)(xii) of the Plan.
 
(p)
                                
"Director"
means a member of the Board who is not a Non-Employee Director.
 
(q)
                                
"Director Option"
shall mean any option granted under Section 13 of the Plan.
 
(r)
                                    
"Director Plan Year"
shall mean the year beginning the day after HP's annual meeting and ending on the day of HP's next annual meeting, as the case may be, for any relevant year.
 
(s)
                                   
"Employee"
means a regular, active employee of the Company or any Affiliate, including an Officer and/or Director. The Administrator shall determine whether or not the chairman of the Board qualifies as an "Employee." Within the limitations of Applicable Law, the Administrator shall have the discretion to determine the effect upon an Award and upon an individual's status as an Employee in the case of (i) any individual who is classified by the Company or its Affiliate as leased from or otherwise employed by a third party or as intermittent or temporary, even if any such classification is changed retroactively as a result of an audit, litigation or otherwise, (ii) any leave of absence approved by the Company or an Affiliate, (iii) any transfer between locations of employment with the Company or an Affiliate or between the Company and any Affiliate or between any Affiliates, (iv) any change in the Awardee's status from an employee to a consultant or Director, and (v) at the request of the Company or an Affiliate an employee becomes employed by any partnership, joint venture or corporation not meeting the requirements of an Affiliate in which the Company or an Affiliate is a party.
 
(t)
                                   
"Exchange Act"
means the United States Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.
(u)
                                
"Fair Market Value"
means, unless the Administrator determines otherwise, as of any date, the closing sales price for such Common Stock as of such date (or if no sales were reported on such date, the closing sales price on the last preceding day on which a sale was made), as reported in such source as the Administrator shall determine.
 
(v)
                                
"Grant Date"
means the date upon which an Award is granted to an Awardee pursuant to this Plan or such later date as specified in advance by the Administrator.
 
(w)
                              
"Incentive Stock Option"
means an Option intended to qualify as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code.
 
(x)
                                
"Non-Employee Director"
shall mean each member of the Board who is not an employee of HP or any of its Subsidiaries or Affiliates and who is eligible only for Awards granted pursuant to Section 13 of the Plan.
 
(y)
                                 
"Nonstatutory Stock Option"
means an Option not intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option.
 
(z)
                                 
"Officer"
means a person who is an officer of the Company within the meaning of Section 16 of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations promulgated thereunder.
 
(aa)
                         
"Option"
means a right granted under Section 8 to purchase a number of Shares or Stock Units at such exercise price, at such times, and on such other terms and conditions as are specified in the agreement or other documents evidencing the Award (the ""). Both Options intended to qualify as Incentive Stock Options and Nonstatutory Stock Options may be granted under the Plan.
Option Agreement
 
(bb)
                         
"" means an individual who has been granted an Award or any person (including any estate) to whom an Award has been assigned or transferred as permitted hereunder.
Participant
 
(cc)
                           
"Plan"
means this Amended and Restated Hewlett-Packard Company 2004 Stock Incentive Plan.
 
(dd)
                         
"Qualifying Performance Criteria"
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 14(b) of the Plan.
 
(ee)
                        
"Share"
means a share of the Common Stock, as adjusted in accordance with Section 15 of the Plan.
 
(ff)
                             
"Stock Award"
means an award or issuance of Shares or Stock Units made under Section 11 of the Plan, the grant, issuance, retention, vesting and/or transferability of which is subject during specified periods of time to such conditions (including continued employment or performance conditions) and terms as are expressed in the agreement or other documents evidencing the Award (the "").
Stock Award Agreement
 
(gg)
                           
"Stock Unit"
means a bookkeeping entry representing an amount equivalent to the fair market value of one Share, payable in cash, property or Shares. Stock Units represent an unfunded and unsecured obligation of the Company, except as otherwise provided for by the Administrator.
 
(hh)
                         
"Subsidiary"
means any company (other than the Company) in an unbroken chain of companies beginning with the Company, provided each company in the unbroken chain (other than the Company) owns, at the time of determination, stock possessing 50% or more of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock in one of the other companies in such chain.
(ii)
                                 
"Termination of Employment"
shall mean ceasing to be an Employee. However, for Incentive Stock Option purposes, Termination of Employment will occur when the Awardee ceases to be an employee (as determined in accordance with Section 3401(c) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder) of the Company or one of its Subsidiaries. The Administrator shall determine whether any corporate transaction, such as a sale or spin-off of a division or business unit, or a joint venture, shall be deemed to result in a Termination of Employment.
 
(jj)
                                
"Total and Permanent Disability"
shall have the meaning set forth in Section 22(e)(3) of the Code.
 
3.
                                     
Stock Subject to the Plan.
 
(a)
                                
Aggregate Limits.
  Subject to the provisions of Section 15 of the Plan, the aggregate number of Shares subject to Awards granted under the Plan is 245,000,000 Shares. The Shares subject to the Plan may be either Shares reacquired by the Company, including Shares purchased in the open market, or authorized but unissued Shares.
 
(b)
                                
Issuance of Shares.
  For purposes of Section 3(a), the aggregate number of Shares issued under the Plan at any time shall equal only the number of Shares actually issued upon exercise or settlement of an Award.  If any Shares subject to an Award granted under the Plan are forfeited or such Award is settled in cash or otherwise terminates without the delivery of such Shares, the Shares subject to such Award, to the extent of any such forfeiture, settlement or termination, shall again be available for grant under the Plan.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Shares subject to an Award under the Plan may not again be made available for issuance under the Plan if such Shares are: (i) Shares delivered to or withheld by the Company to pay the exercise price of an Option, (ii) Shares delivered to or withheld by the Company to pay the withholding taxes related to an Award, or (iii) Shares repurchased by the Company on the open market with the proceeds of an Award paid to the Company by or on behalf of the Participant.
 
(c)
                                  
Code Section 162(m) and 422 Limits.
  Subject to the provisions of Section 15 of the Plan, the aggregate number of Shares subject to Awards granted under this Plan during any calendar year to any one Awardee shall not exceed 1,500,000, except that in connection with his or her initial service, an Awardee may be granted Awards covering up to an additional 1,500,000 Shares. Subject to the provisions of Section 15 of the Plan, the aggregate number of Shares that may be subject to all Incentive Stock Options granted under the Plan is 245,000,000 Shares. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Plan, the limitations set forth in this Section 3(c) shall be subject to adjustment under Section 15(a) of the Plan only to the extent that such adjustment will not affect the status of any Award intended to qualify as "performance based compensation" under Code Section 162(m) or the ability to grant or the qualification of Incentive Stock Options under the Plan.
 
4.
                                     
Administration Of The Plan.
 
(a)
                                
Procedure.
 
i.
                                         
Multiple Administrative Bodies.
The Plan shall be administered by the Board, one or more Committees and/or their delegates.
 
ii.
                                      
Section 162.
To the extent that the Administrator determines it to be desirable to qualify Awards granted hereunder as "performance-based compensation" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, Awards to "covered employees" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code or Employees that the Committee determines may be "covered employees" in the future shall be made by a Committee of two or more "outside directors" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code.
iii.
                                   
Rule 16b-3.
To the extent desirable to qualify transactions hereunder as exempt under Rule 16b-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act ("Rule 16b-3"), Awards to Officers and Directors shall be made by the entire Board or a Committee of two or more "non-employee directors" within the meaning of Rule 16b-3.
 
iv.
                                  
Other Administration.
The Board or a Committee may delegate to an authorized officer or officers of the Company the power to approve Awards to persons eligible to receive Awards under the Plan who are not (A) subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act or (B) at the time of such approval, "covered employees" under Section 162(m) of the Code.
 
v.
                                     
Delegation of Authority for the Day-to-Day Administration of the Plan.
Except to the extent prohibited by Applicable Law, the Administrator may delegate to one or more individuals the day-to-day administration of the Plan and any of the functions assigned to it in this Plan. Such delegation may be revoked at any time.
 
(b)
                                
Powers of the Administrator.
  Subject to the provisions of the Plan and, in the case of a Committee or delegates acting as the Administrator, subject to the specific duties delegated to such Committee or delegates, the Administrator shall have the authority, in its discretion:
 
i.
                                         
to select the Awardees to whom Awards are to be granted hereunder;
 
ii.
                                      
to determine the number of shares of Common Stock to be covered by each Award granted hereunder;
 
iii.
                                   
to determine the type of Award to be granted to the selected Awardees and to approve forms of Award Agreements for use under the Plan;
 
iv.
                                  
to determine the terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, of any Award granted hereunder. Such terms and conditions include, but are not limited to, the exercise and/or purchase price, the time or times when an Award may be exercised (which may or may not be based on performance criteria), the vesting schedule, any vesting and/or exercisability acceleration or waiver of forfeiture restrictions, the acceptable forms of consideration, the term, and any restriction or limitation regarding any Award or the Shares relating thereto, based in each case on such factors as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine and may be established at the time an Award is granted or thereafter;
 
v.
                                     
to suspend the right to exercise Awards during any blackout period that is necessary or desirable to comply with the requirements of Applicable Laws and/or to extend the Award exercise period for an equal period of time in a manner consistent with Applicable Law;
 
vi.
                                  
to correct defects in the Plan and supply omissions and to correct administrative errors;
 
vii.
                               
to construe and interpret the terms of the Plan (including sub-plans and Plan addenda) and Awards granted pursuant to the Plan;
 
viii.
                            
to adopt rules and procedures relating to the operation and administration of the Plan to accommodate the specific requirements of local laws and procedures. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Administrator is specifically authorized (A) to adopt the rules and procedures regarding the conversion of local currency, withholding procedures and handling of stock certificates which vary with local requirements and (B) to adopt sub-plans and Plan addenda as the Administrator deems desirable, to accommodate foreign laws, regulations and practice;
ix.
                                  
to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan, including rules and regulations relating to sub-plans and Plan addenda;
 
x.
                                     
to modify or amend each Award, including, but not limited to, the acceleration of vesting and/or exercisability, provided, however, that any such amendment is subject to Section 16 of the Plan and may not materially impair any outstanding Award unless agreed to in writing by the Participant;
 
xi.
                                  
to allow Participants to satisfy withholding tax amounts by electing to have the Company withhold from the Shares to be issued upon exercise of an Option or vesting or settlement of a Stock Award that number of Shares having a value equal to the amount required to be withheld. The value of the Shares to be withheld shall be determined in such manner and on such date that the Administrator shall determine or, in the absence of provision otherwise, on the date that the amount of tax to be withheld is to be determined. All elections by a Participant to have Shares withheld for this purpose shall be made in such form and under such conditions as the Administrator may provide;
 
xii.
                               
to authorize conversion or substitution under the Plan of any or all stock options, stock appreciation rights or other stock awards held by service providers of an entity acquired by the Company (the "Conversion Awards"). Any conversion or substitution shall be effective as of the close of the merger or acquisition. The Conversion Awards may be Nonstatutory Stock Options or Incentive Stock Options, as determined by the Administrator, with respect to options granted by the acquired entity; provided, however, that with respect to the conversion of stock appreciation rights in the acquired entity, the Conversion Awards shall be Nonstatutory Stock Options. Unless otherwise determined by the Administrator at the time of conversion or substitution, all Conversion Awards shall have the same terms and conditions as Awards generally granted by the Company under the Plan;
 
xiii.
                            
to authorize any person to execute on behalf of the Company any instrument required to effect the grant of an Award previously granted by the Administrator;
 
xiv.
                           
to impose such restrictions, conditions or limitations as it determines appropriate as to the timing and manner of any resales by a Participant or other subsequent transfers by the Participant of any Shares issued as a result of or under an Award, including without limitation, (A) restrictions under an insider trading policy and (B) restrictions as to the use of a specified brokerage firm for such resales or other transfers;
 
xv.
                              
to provide, either at the time an Award is granted or by subsequent action, that an Award shall contain as a term thereof, a right, either in tandem with the other rights under the Award or as an alternative thereto, of the Participant to receive, without payment to the Company, a number of Shares, cash or a combination thereof, the amount of which is determined by reference to the value of the Award; and
 
xvi.
                           
to make all other determinations deemed necessary or advisable for administering the Plan and any Award granted hereunder.
 
(c)
                                 
Effect of Administrator's Decision.
  All decisions, determinations and interpretations by the Administrator regarding the Plan, any rules and regulations under the Plan and the terms and conditions of any Award granted hereunder, shall be final and binding on all Participants. The Administrator shall consider such factors as it deems relevant, in its sole and absolute discretion, to making such decisions, determinations and interpretations including, without limitation, the recommendations or advice of any officer or other employee of the Company and such attorneys, consultants and accountants as it may select.
5.
                                     
Eligibility.
 
Awards may be granted to Directors and/or Employees; provided that Non-Employee Directors are eligible only for awards granted under Section 13 of the Plan.
 
6.
                                     
Term of Plan.
 
The Plan shall become effective upon its approval by shareholders of the Company. It shall continue in effect for a term of ten (10) years from the later of the date the Plan or any amendment to add shares to the Plan is approved by shareholders of the Company unless terminated earlier under Section 16 of the Plan.
 
7.
                                     
Term of Award.
 
The term of each Award shall be determined by the Administrator and stated in the Award Agreement. In the case of an Option, the term shall be ten (10) years from the Grant Date or such shorter term as may be provided in the Award Agreement; provided that the term may be ten and one-half (10
1
/
2
) years in the case of Options granted to Awardees in certain jurisdictions outside the United States as determined by the Administrator.
 
8.
                                     
Options.
 
The Administrator may grant an Option or provide for the grant of an Option, either from time to time in the discretion of the Administrator or automatically upon the occurrence of specified events, including, without limitation, the achievement of performance goals, the satisfaction of an event or condition within the control of the Awardee or within the control of others.
 
(a)
                                
Option Agreement.
  Each Option Agreement shall contain provisions regarding (i) the number of Shares that may be issued upon exercise of the Option, (ii) the type of Option, (iii) the exercise price of the Shares and the means of payment for the Shares, (iv) the term of the Option, (v) such terms and conditions on the vesting and/or exercisability of an Option as may be determined from time to time by the Administrator, (vi) restrictions on the transfer of the Option and forfeiture provisions and (vii) such further terms and conditions, in each case not inconsistent with this Plan as may be determined from time to time by the Administrator.
 
(b)
                                
Exercise Price.
  The per share exercise price for the Shares to be issued pursuant to exercise of an Option shall be determined by the Administrator, subject to the following:
 
i.
                                         
The per Share exercise price of an Option shall be no less than 100% of the Fair Market Value per Share on the Grant Date.
 
ii.
                                      
Notwithstanding the foregoing, at the Administrator's discretion, Conversion Awards may be granted in substitution and/or conversion of options or stock appreciation rights of an acquired entity, with a per Share exercise price of less than 100% of the Fair Market Value per Share on the date of such substitution and/or conversion if such exercise price is based on a formula set forth in the terms of such options/stock appreciation rights or in the terms of the agreement providing for such acquisition.
 
(c)
                                 
No Option Repricings.
  Other than in connection with a change in the Company's capitalization (as described in Section 15(a) of the Plan), the exercise price of an Option may not be reduced without shareholder approval (including canceling previously awarded Options in exchange for cash, other Awards or Options with an exercise price that is less than the exercise price of the original Option).
 
(d)
                                
Vesting Period and Exercise Dates.
  Options granted under this Plan shall vest and/or be exercisable at such time and in such installments during the period prior to the expiration of the Option's term as determined by the Administrator. The Administrator shall have the right to make the timing of the ability to exercise any Option granted under this Plan subject to continued employment, the passage of time and/or such
performance requirements as deemed appropriate by the Administrator. At any time after the grant of an Option, the Administrator may reduce or eliminate any restrictions surrounding any Participant's right to exercise all or part of the Option.
 
(e)
                                 
Form of Consideration.
  The Administrator shall determine the acceptable form of consideration for exercising an Option, including the method of payment, either through the terms of the Option Agreement or at the time of exercise of an Option. Acceptable forms of consideration may include:
 
i.
                                         
cash;
 
ii.
                                      
check or wire transfer (denominated in U.S. Dollars);
 
iii.
                                   
subject to any conditions or limitations established by the Administrator, other Shares which have a Fair Market Value on the date of surrender equal to the aggregate exercise price of the Shares as to which said Option shall be exercised;
 
iv.
                                  
subject to any conditions or limitations established by the Administrator, withholding of Shares deliverable upon exercise, which have a Fair Market Value on the date of surrender equal to the aggregate exercise price of the Shares as to which said Option shall be exercised;
 
v.
                                     
consideration received by the Company under a broker-assisted sale and remittance program acceptable to the Administrator;
 
vi.
                                  
such other consideration and method of payment for the issuance of Shares to the extent permitted by Applicable Laws; or
 
vii.
                               
any combination of the foregoing methods of payment.
 
9.
                                     
Incentive Stock Option Limitations/Terms.
 
(a)
                                
Eligibility.
  Only employees (as determined in accordance with Section 3401(c) of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder) of the Company or any of its Subsidiaries may be granted Incentive Stock Options.
 
(b)
                                
$100,000 Limitation.
  Notwithstanding the designation "Incentive Stock Option" in an Option Agreement, if and to the extent that the aggregate Fair Market Value of the Shares with respect to which Incentive Stock Options are exercisable for the first time by the Awardee during any calendar year (under all plans of the Company and any of its Subsidiaries) exceeds U.S. $100,000, such Options shall be treated as Nonstatutory Stock Options. For purposes of this Section 9(b), Incentive Stock Options shall be taken into account in the order in which they were granted. The Fair Market Value of the Shares shall be determined as of the Grant Date.
 
(c)
                                 
Effect of Termination of Employment on Incentive Stock Options.
  Unless otherwise provided for by the Administrator, upon an Awardee's Termination of Employment, any outstanding Incentive Stock Option granted to such Awardee, whether vested or unvested, to the extent not theretofore exercised, shall terminate immediately upon the Awardee's Termination of Employment.
 
(d)
                                
Leave of Absence.
  For purposes of Incentive Stock Options, no leave of absence may exceed ninety (90) days, unless reemployment upon expiration of such leave is guaranteed by statute or contract. If reemployment upon expiration of a leave of absence approved by the Company or a Subsidiary is not so guaranteed, an Awardee's employment with the Company shall be deemed terminated on the ninety-first (91
st
) day of such leave for Incentive Stock Option purposes and any Incentive Stock Option
granted to the Awardee shall cease to be treated as an Incentive Stock Option and shall terminate upon the expiration of the three month period following the date the employment relationship is deemed terminated.
 
(e)
                                 
Transferability.
  The Option Agreement must provide that an Incentive Stock Option cannot be transferable by the Awardee otherwise than by will or the laws of descent and distribution, and, during the lifetime of such Awardee, must not be exercisable by any other person. If the terms of an Incentive Stock Option are amended to permit transferability, the Option will be treated for tax purposes as a Nonstatutory Stock Option.
 
(f)
                                  
Other Terms.
  Option Agreements evidencing Incentive Stock Options shall contain such other terms and conditions as may be necessary to qualify, to the extent determined desirable by the Administrator, with the applicable provisions of Section 422 of the Code.
 
10.
                              
Exercise of Option.
 
(a)
                                
Procedure for Exercise; Rights as a Shareholder.
 
i.
                                         
Any Option granted hereunder shall be exercisable according to the terms of the Plan and at such times and under such conditions as determined by the Administrator and set forth in the respective Award Agreement. Unless the Administrator provides otherwise: (A) no Option may be exercised during any leave of absence other than an approved personal or medical leave with an employment guarantee upon return; and (B) an Option shall continue to vest during any authorized leave of absence and such Option may be exercised to the extent vested and exercisable upon the Awardee's return to active employment status.
 
ii.
                                      
An Option shall be deemed exercised when the Company receives (A) written or electronic notice of exercise (in accordance with the Award Agreement) from the person entitled to exercise the Option; (B) full payment for the Shares with respect to which the related Option is exercised; and (C) with respect to Nonstatutory Stock Options, payment of all applicable withholding taxes.
 
iii.
                                   
Shares issued upon exercise of an Option shall be issued in the name of the Participant or, if requested by the Participant, in the name of the Participant and his or her spouse. Unless provided otherwise by the Administrator or pursuant to this Plan, until the Shares are issued (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company), no right to vote or receive dividends or any other rights as a shareholder shall exist with respect to the Shares subject to an Option, notwithstanding the exercise of the Option.
 
iv.
                                  
The Company shall issue (or cause to be issued) such Shares as soon as administratively practicable after the Option is exercised. An Option may not be exercised for a fraction of a Share.
 
(b)
                                
Effect of Termination of Employment on Nonstatutory Stock Options.
  Unless otherwise provided for by the Administrator, upon an Awardee's Termination of Employment, any outstanding Nonstatutory Stock Option granted to such Awardee, whether vested or unvested, to the extent not theretofore exercised, shall terminate immediately upon the Awardee's Termination of Employment.
 
11.
                              
Stock Awards.
 
(a)
                                
Stock Award Agreement.
  Each Stock Award Agreement shall contain provisions regarding (i) the number of Shares subject to such Stock Award or a formula for determining such number, (ii) the purchase price of the Shares, if any, and the means of payment for the Shares, (iii) the performance criteria, if any, and level of achievement versus these criteria that shall determine the number of Shares granted, issued, retainable and/or vested, (iv) such terms and conditions on the grant, issuance, vesting and/or forfeiture of the
Shares as may be determined from time to time by the Administrator, (v) restrictions on the transferability of the Stock Award and (vi) such further terms and conditions in each case not inconsistent with this Plan as may be determined from time to time by the Administrator.
 
(b)
                                
Restrictions and Performance Criteria.
  The grant, issuance, retention and/or vesting of each Stock Award may be subject to such performance criteria and level of achievement versus these criteria as the Administrator shall determine, which criteria may be based on financial performance, personal performance evaluations and/or completion of service by the Awardee. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the performance criteria for any Stock Award that is intended to satisfy the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code shall be established by the Administrator based on one or more Qualifying Performance Criteria selected by the Administrator and specified in writing not later than ninety (90) days after the commencement of the period of service to which the performance goals relates, provided that the outcome is substantially uncertain at that time.
 
(c)
                                 
Forfeiture.
  Unless otherwise provided for by the Administrator, upon the Awardee's Termination of Employment, the Stock Award and the Shares subject thereto shall be forfeited, provided that to the extent that the Awardee purchased any Shares, the Company shall have a right to repurchase the unvested Shares at the original price paid by the Awardee.
 
(d)
                                
Rights as a Shareholder.
  Unless otherwise provided by the Administrator, the Participant shall have the rights equivalent to those of a shareholder and shall be a shareholder only after Shares are issued (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company) to the Participant. Unless otherwise provided by the Administrator, a Participant holding Stock Units shall be entitled to receive dividend payments as if he or she was an actual shareholder.
 
12.
                              
Cash Awards.
 
Each Cash Award will confer upon the Awardee the opportunity to earn a future payment tied to the level of achievement with respect to one or more performance criteria established for a performance period of not less than one (1) year.
 
(a)
                                
Cash Award.
  Each Cash Award shall contain provisions regarding (i) the target and maximum amount payable to the Awardee as a Cash Award, (ii) the performance criteria and level of achievement versus these criteria which shall determine the amount of such payment, (iii) the period as to which performance shall be measured for establishing the amount of any payment, (iv) the timing of any payment earned by virtue of performance, (v) restrictions on the alienation or transfer of the Cash Award prior to actual payment, (vi) forfeiture provisions, and (vii) such further terms and conditions, in each case not inconsistent with the Plan, as may be determined from time to time by the Administrator. The maximum amount payable as a Cash Award that is settled for cash may be a multiple of the target amount payable, but the maximum amount payable pursuant to that portion of a Cash Award granted under this Plan for any fiscal year to any Awardee that is intended to satisfy the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code shall not exceed U.S. $15,000,000.
 
(b)
                                
Performance Criteria.
  The Administrator shall establish the performance criteria and level of achievement versus these criteria which shall determine the target and the minimum and maximum amount payable under a Cash Award, which criteria may be based on financial performance and/or personal performance evaluations. The Administrator may specify the percentage of the target Cash Award that is intended to satisfy the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, the performance criteria for any portion of a Cash Award that is intended to satisfy the requirements for "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code shall be a measure established by the Administrator based on one or more Qualifying Performance Criteria selected by the Administrator and specified in writing not later than ninety (90) days after the commencement of the period of service to which the performance goals relates, provided that the outcome is substantially uncertain at that time.
 
(c)
          
Timing and Form of Payment.
  The Administrator shall determine the timing of payment of any Cash Award. The Administrator may provide for or, subject to such terms and conditions as the Administrator may specify, may permit an Awardee to elect (in a manner consistent with Section 409A of the Code) for the payment of any Cash Award to be deferred to a specified date or event. The Administrator may specify the form of payment of Cash Awards, which may be cash or other property, or may provide for an Awardee to have the option for his or her Cash Award, or such portion thereof as the Administrator may specify, to be paid in whole or in part in cash or other property.
 
(d)
          
Termination of Employment.
  Unless otherwise provided for by the Administrator, upon the Awardee's Termination of Employment, any Cash Awards issued hereunder shall be forfeited.
 
13.
                              
Non-Employee Director Awards.
 
(a)
          
Eligibility
.  Each member of the Board who is a Non-Employee Director and who is providing service to HP as a member of the Board at the beginning of the Director Plan Year shall be eligible to receive an Annual Equity Retainer (as defined in Section 2 above) under the Plan.
 
Any member of the Board who enters service after the beginning of the Director Plan Year (as defined in Section 2 above) may be eligible to receive a prorated Annual Equity Retainer under the Plan as the Board or the Committee determines in its discretion.
 
(b)
          
Terms and Conditions
.
 
(i)
           
Compensation Alternatives
. Within (A) twenty-five (25) days after the beginning of the Director Plan Year, or (B) if the Non-Employee Director elects to participate in the Hewlett-Packard Company 2005 Executive Deferred Compensation Plan (the "EDCP") then in the calendar year preceding the first day of the Director Plan Year, each Non-Employee Director may elect to receive his Annual Equity Retainer in the form of restricted stock units (a "Director RSU Award") and or in the form of an option to purchase shares of Common Stock (a "Director Option Award").  If any Non-Employee Director fails to make such an election, then he shall be deemed to have elected a Director RSU Award for the value of his Annual Equity Retainer. Any such election, or any modification or termination of such an election, shall be filed with HP on a form prescribed by HP for this purpose.  If a Non-Employee Director does not elect to participate in the EDCP and does not select his or her means of payment within the prescribed time, then such Non-Employee Director shall not be permitted to participate in the EDCP for the applicable Director Plan Year.
 
(ii)
          
Director RSU Award
.
 
A.
          
Date of Grant
. The Director RSU Award shall be granted automatically one month after the beginning of each Director Plan Year (or, if such date is not a business day, on the next succeeding business day) (the "Director Grant Date").
 
B.
          
Number of Shares Subject to a Director RSU Award
. The total number of shares of Common Stock included in each Director RSU Award shall be determined by dividing the amount of the Annual Equity Retainer that is to be paid in RSUs by the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the Director Grant Date. It shall be rounded up to the largest number of whole shares.
 
C.
          
Vesting Period for Director RSU Award
. If the Committee does not expressly exercise its discretion to change the vesting of the Director RSU Award for a Director Plan Year, then the vesting of such Director RSU Award shall be the same as the last Director Plan Year in which the Committee exercised its discretion to set the vesting terms.  Unless deferred under the EDCP, Shares subject to Director RSU Awards shall be delivered promptly upon satisfaction of the vesting conditions, but
no later than March 15 of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the vesting conditions are satisfied.
 
(iii)
         
Director Option Award.
Subject to Section 13(b)(i) above, each Non-Employee Director may specify the amount of his Annual Equity Retainer to be received in the form of a Nonstatutory Stock Option. Each Director Option Award granted under this Plan shall comply with and be subject to the terms of the Plan and the following terms and conditions including such additional terms and conditions as may be determined by the Board or Committee:
 
A.
          
Date of Grant
. The Director Option Award shall be granted automatically on the Director Grant Date.
 
B.
          
Number of Shares Subject to Director Option Award
. The number of shares to be subject to any Director Option Award shall be an amount necessary to make such option equal in value, using a modified Black-Scholes option valuation model, to that portion of the Annual Equity Retainer that the Non-Employee Director elected to receive in the form of an option. The value of the option will be calculated by assuming that the value of an option to purchase one share of Common Stock equals the product of (i) a fraction determined by dividing 1 by the Multiplier, as defined below, and (ii) the Fair Market Value of a share of Common Stock on the Director Grant Date.
 
The number of shares represented by a Director Option Award shall be determined by multiplying the number of shares determined above by a multiplier determined using a modified Black-Scholes option valuation method (the "Multiplier"). The Board or the Committee shall determine the Multiplier prior to the beginning of the Director Plan Year by considering the following factors: (i) the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the date the Multiplier is determined; (ii) the average length of time that Company stock options are held by optionees prior to exercise; (iii) the risk-free rate of return based on the term determined in (ii) above and U.S. government securities rates; (iv) the annual dividend yield for the Common Stock; and (v) the volatility of the Common Stock over the previous ten-year period. The number of shares to be subject to the option shall be rounded up to the largest number of whole shares determined as follows:
 
 
C.
            
Price of Options
. The exercise price of the Director Option Award will be the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock on the Director Grant Date.
 
D.
            
Period of Director Option Award
. The Committee shall have the discretion to determine the exercisability of Shares subject to the Director Option Award.  If the Committee does not expressly exercise its discretion to change the exercisability of the Director Option Award for a Director Plan Year, then the exercisability of such options shall be the same as the last Director Plan Year in which the Committee expressly exercised its discretion to determine the exercisability of Shares subject to the Director Option Award.
 
(iv)
         
Termination
. 
Any Non-Employee Director who terminates service prior to the end of the Director Plan Year may have his Annual Retainer prorated, including a forfeiture of options, restricted stock units or cash payment, if any, as the Board or the Committee determines in its discretion.
 
14.
                                
Other Provisions Applicable to Awards.
 
(a)
          
Non-Transferability of Awards.
  Unless determined otherwise by the Administrator, an Award may not be sold, pledged, assigned, hypothecated, transferred, or disposed of in any manner other than by beneficiary designation, will or by the laws of descent or distribution. The Administrator may make an Award transferable to an Awardee's "family member" (as such term is defined in Section 1(a)(5) of the
General Instructions to Form S-8 under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended), to trusts solely for the benefit of such family members and to partnerships in which such family members and/or trusts are the only partners. If the Administrator makes an Award transferable, either at the time of grant or thereafter, such Award shall contain such additional terms and conditions as the Administrator deems appropriate, and any transferee shall be deemed to be bound by such terms upon acceptance of such transfer.
 
(b)
          
Qualifying Performance Criteria.
  For purposes of this Plan, the term "Qualifying Performance Criteria" shall mean any one or more of the following performance criteria, either individually, alternatively or in any combination, applied to either the Company as a whole or to a business unit, Affiliate or business segment, either individually, alternatively or in any combination, and measured either annually or cumulatively over a period of years, on an absolute basis or relative to a pre-established target, to previous years' results or to a designated comparison group, in each case as specified by the Committee in the Award: (i) cash flow or cash conversion cycle; (ii) earnings (including gross margin, earnings before interest and taxes, earnings before taxes, and net earnings); (iii) earnings per share; (iv) growth in earnings or earnings per share, cash flow, revenue, gross margin, operating expense or operating expense as a percentage of revenue; (v) stock price; (vi) return on equity or average shareholder equity; (vii) total shareholder return; (viii) return on capital; (ix) return on assets or net assets; (x) return on investment; (xi) revenue; (xii) income or net income; (xiii) operating income or net operating income; (xiv) operating profit, net operating profit or controllable operating profit; (xv) operating margin or operating expense or operating expense as a percentage of revenue; (xvi) return on operating revenue; (xvii) market share or customer indicators; (xviii) contract awards or backlog; (xix) overhead or other expense reduction; (xx) growth in shareholder value relative to the moving average of the S&P 500 Index or a peer group index; (xxi) credit rating; (xxii) strategic plan development and implementation, attainment of research and development milestones or new product invention or innovation; (xxiii) succession plan development and implementation; (xxiv) improvement in productivity or workforce diversity; (xxv) attainment of objective operating goals and employee metrics; (xxvi) economic value added; and (xxvii) any other similar criteria. To the extent consistent with Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee may appropriately adjust any evaluation of performance under a Qualifying Performance Criteria to exclude any of the following events that occurs during a performance period: (A) asset write-downs; (B) litigation or claim judgments or settlements; (C) the effect of changes in tax law, accounting principles or other such laws or provisions affecting reported results; (D) accruals for reorganization and restructuring programs; and (E) any extraordinary non-recurring items as described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30 and/or in management's discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations appearing in the Company's annual report to shareholders for the applicable year.
 
(c)
          
Certification.
  Prior to the payment of any compensation under an Award intended to qualify as "performance-based compensation" under Section 162(m) of the Code, the Committee shall certify the extent to which any Qualifying Performance Criteria and any other material terms under such Award have been satisfied (other than in cases where such relate solely to the increase in the value of the Common Stock).
 
(d)
          
Discretionary Adjustments Pursuant to Section 162(m).
  Notwithstanding satisfaction of any completion of any Qualifying Performance Criteria, to the extent specified at the time of grant of an Award to "covered employees" within the meaning of Section 162(m) of the Code, the number of Shares, Options or other benefits granted, issued, retainable and/or vested under an Award on account of satisfaction of such Qualifying Performance Criteria may be reduced by the Committee on the basis of such further considerations as the Committee in its sole discretion shall determine.
 
15.
                              
Adjustments upon Changes in Capitalization, Dissolution, Merger or Asset Sale.
 
(a)
          
Changes in Capitalization.
  Subject to any required action by the shareholders of the Company, (i) the number and kind of Shares available for issuance under the Plan and/or covered by each outstanding Award, (ii) the price per Share subject to each such outstanding Award; and (iii) the Share limitations set forth in Section 3 of the Plan, shall be proportionately adjusted for any increase or decrease in the number or kind of issued shares resulting from a stock split, reverse stock split, dividend or other
distribution (whether in the form of cash, Shares, other securities or other property (other than regular, cash dividends)), combination or reclassification of the Common Stock, or any other increase or decrease in the number of issued shares of Common Stock effected without receipt of consideration by the Company; provided, however, that conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be deemed to have been "effected without receipt of consideration." Such adjustment shall be made by the Administrator, whose determination in that respect shall be final, binding and conclusive. Except as expressly provided herein, no issuance by the Company of shares of stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, shall affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number or price of shares of Common Stock subject to an Award.
 
(b)
          
Dissolution or Liquidation.
  In the event of the proposed dissolution or liquidation of the Company, the Administrator shall notify each Participant as soon as practicable prior to the effective date of such proposed transaction. The Administrator in its discretion may provide for an Option to be fully vested and exercisable until ten (10) days prior to such transaction. In addition, the Administrator may provide that any restrictions on any Award shall lapse prior to the transaction, provided the proposed dissolution or liquidation takes place at the time and in the manner contemplated. To the extent it has not been previously exercised, an Award will terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such proposed transaction.
 
(c)
          
Change in Control.
  In the event there is a Change in Control of the Company, as determined by the Board or a Committee, the Board or Committee may, in its discretion, (i) provide for the assumption or substitution of, or adjustment to, each outstanding Award; (ii) accelerate the vesting of Awards and terminate any restrictions on Awards; and (iii) provide for the cancellation of Awards for a cash payment to the Participant.
 
16.
                              
Amendment and Termination of the Plan.
 
(a)
          
Amendment and Termination.
  The Administrator may amend, alter or discontinue the Plan or any Award Agreement, but any such amendment shall be subject to approval of the shareholders of the Company in the manner and to the extent required by Applicable Law. In addition, without limiting the foregoing, unless approved by the shareholders of the Company, no such amendment shall be made that would:
 
i.
             
increase the maximum number of Shares for which Awards may be granted under the Plan, other than an increase pursuant to Section 15 of the Plan;
 
ii.
            
reduce the minimum exercise price for Options granted under the Plan;
 
iii.
           
reduce the exercise price of outstanding Options; or
 
iv.
           
materially expand the class of persons eligible to receive Awards under the Plan.
 
(b)
          
Effect of Amendment or Termination.
  No amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan shall impair the rights of any Award, unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Participant and the Administrator, which agreement must be in writing and signed by the Participant and the Company. Termination of the Plan shall not affect the Administrator's ability to exercise the powers granted to it hereunder with respect to Awards granted under the Plan prior to the date of such termination.
 
(c)
          
Effect of the Plan on Other Arrangements.
  Neither the adoption of the Plan by the Board or a Committee nor the submission of the Plan to the shareholders of the Company for approval shall be construed as creating any limitations on the power of the Board or any Committee to adopt such other incentive arrangements as it or they may deem desirable, including, without limitation, the granting of restricted stock or stock options otherwise than under the Plan, and such arrangements may be either generally applicable or applicable only in specific cases.
17.
                              
Designation of Beneficiary.
 
(a)
          
An Awardee may file a written designation of a beneficiary who is to receive the Awardee's rights pursuant to Awardee's Award or the Awardee may include his or her Awards in an omnibus beneficiary designation for all benefits under the Plan. To the extent that Awardee has completed a designation of beneficiary while employed with Hewlett-Packard Company, such beneficiary designation shall remain in effect with respect to any Award hereunder until changed by the Awardee to the extent enforceable under Applicable Law.
 
(b)
          
Such designation of beneficiary may be changed by the Awardee at any time by written notice. In the event of the death of an Awardee and in the absence of a beneficiary validly designated under the Plan who is living at the time of such Awardee's death, the Company shall allow the executor or administrator of the estate of the Awardee to exercise the Award, or if no such executor or administrator has been appointed (to the knowledge of the Company), the Company, in its discretion, may allow the spouse or one or more dependents or relatives of the Awardee to exercise the Award to the extent permissible under Applicable Law.
 
18.
                              
No Right to Awards or to Employment.
 
No person shall have any claim or right to be granted an Award and the grant of any Award shall not be construed as giving an Awardee the right to continue in the employ of the Company or its Affiliates. Further, the Company and its Affiliates expressly reserve the right, at any time, to dismiss any Employee or Awardee at any time without liability or any claim under the Plan, except as provided herein or in any Award Agreement entered into hereunder.
 
19.
                              
Legal Compliance.
 
Shares shall not be issued pursuant to the exercise of an Option or Stock Award unless the exercise of such Option or Stock Award and the issuance and delivery of such Shares shall comply with Applicable Laws and shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance.
 
20.
                              
Inability to Obtain Authority.
 
To the extent the Company is unable to or the Administrator deems it infeasible to obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the Company's counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares hereunder, the Company shall be relieved of any liability with respect to the failure to issue or sell such Shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained.
 
21.
                              
Reservation of Shares.
 
The Company, during the term of this Plan, will at all times reserve and keep available such number of Shares as shall be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Plan.
 
22.
                              
Notice.
 
Any written notice to the Company required by any provisions of this Plan shall be addressed to the Secretary of the Company and shall be effective when received.
 
23.
                              
Governing Law; Interpretation of Plan and Awards.
 
(a)
          
This Plan and all determinations made and actions taken pursuant hereto shall be governed by the substantive laws, but not the choice of law rules, of the state of Delaware.
(b)
          
In the event that any provision of the Plan or any Award granted under the Plan is declared to be illegal, invalid or otherwise unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, such provision shall be reformed, if possible, to the extent necessary to render it legal, valid and enforceable, or otherwise deleted, and the remainder of the terms of the Plan and/or Award shall not be affected except to the extent necessary to reform or delete such illegal, invalid or unenforceable provision.
 
(c)
          
The headings preceding the text of the sections hereof are inserted solely for convenience of reference, and shall not constitute a part of the Plan, nor shall they affect its meaning, construction or effect.
 
(d)
          
The terms of the Plan and any Award shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the parties hereto and their respective permitted heirs, beneficiaries, successors and assigns.
 
(e)
          
All questions arising under the Plan or under any Award shall be decided by the Administrator in its total and absolute discretion. In the event the Participant believes that a decision by the Administrator with respect to such person was arbitrary or capricious, the Participant may request arbitration with respect to such decision. The review by the arbitrator shall be limited to determining whether the Administrator's decision was arbitrary or capricious. This arbitration shall be the sole and exclusive review permitted of the Administrator's decision, and the Awardee shall as a condition to the receipt of an Award be deemed to explicitly waive any right to judicial review.
 
(f)
           
Notice of demand for arbitration shall be made in writing to the Administrator within thirty (30) days after the applicable decision by the Administrator. The arbitrator shall be selected from amongst those members of the Board who are neither Administrators nor Employees. If there are no such members of the Board, the arbitrator shall be selected by the Board. The arbitrator shall be an individual who is an attorney licensed to practice law in the State of Delaware. Such arbitrator shall be neutral within the meaning of the Commercial Rules of Dispute Resolution of the American Arbitration Association; provided, however, that the arbitration shall not be administered by the American Arbitration Association. Any challenge to the neutrality of the arbitrator shall be resolved by the arbitrator whose decision shall be final and conclusive. The arbitration shall be administered and conducted by the arbitrator pursuant to the Commercial Rules of Dispute Resolution of the American Arbitration Association. The decision of the arbitrator on the issue(s) presented for arbitration shall be final and conclusive and may be enforced in any court of competent jurisdiction.
 
24.
                              
Limitation on Liability.
 
The Company and any Affiliate which is in existence or hereafter comes into existence shall not be liable to a Participant, an Employee, an Awardee or any other persons as to:
 
(a)
          
The Non-Issuance of Shares.
  The non-issuance or sale of Shares as to which the Company has been unable to obtain from any regulatory body having jurisdiction the authority deemed by the Company's counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any shares hereunder; and
 
(b)
          
Tax Consequences.
  Any tax consequence expected, but not realized, by any Participant, Employee, Awardee or other person due to the receipt, exercise or settlement of any Option or other Award granted hereunder.
 
25.
                              
Unfunded Plan.
 
Insofar as it provides for Awards, the Plan shall be unfunded. Although bookkeeping accounts may be established with respect to Awardees who are granted Stock Awards under this Plan, any such accounts will be used merely as a bookkeeping convenience. The Company shall not be required to segregate any assets which may at any time be represented by Awards, nor shall this Plan be construed as providing for such segregation, nor shall the Company or the Administrator be deemed to be a trustee of stock or cash to be awarded under the Plan. Any liability of the Company to any Participant with respect to an Award shall be based solely upon any contractual obligations which may be created by the Plan; no such obligation of the Company shall be deemed to be secured by any pledge or other encumbrance on any property of the Company. Neither the Company nor the Administrator shall be required to give any security or bond for the performance of any obligation which may be created by this Plan.


