Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following analysis discusses our financial condition as of December 31, 2001, compared with December 31, 2000, and our consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, and, where appropriate, factors that may affect our future financial performance. The discussion should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes to the financial statements and the other financial information included elsewhere in this Form 10 K. Forward Looking Information Our narrative analysis below contains forward looking statements intended to enhance the readers ability to assess our future financial performance. Forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that represent our beliefs concerning future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments, and contain words and phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," and similar expressions. Forward looking statements are made based upon managements current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects on us. Such forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those included in the forward looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to the following: (1) competition from companies that may have greater financial resources, broader arrays of products, higher ratings and stronger financial performance may impair our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers and maintain our profitability; (2) a decline or increased volatility in the securities markets could result in investors withdrawing from the markets or decreasing their rates of investment, either of which could reduce our net income, revenues and assets under management; (3) a downgrade in Principal Life Insurance Companys ("Principal Life") financial strength ratings may increase policy surrenders and withdrawals, reduce new sales and terminate relationships with distributors; (4) our efforts to reduce the impact of interest rate changes on our profitability and surplus may not be effective; (5) if we are unable to attract and retain sales representatives and develop new distribution sources, sales of our products and services may be reduced; (6) our international businesses face political, legal, operational and other risks that could reduce our profitability in those businesses; (7) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could reduce our profitability; (8) a decline in Australian equity values may reduce the profitability of BT Financial Group; (9) our reserves established for future policy benefits and claims may prove inadequate, requiring us to increase liabilities; (10) our investment portfolio is subject to several risks which may diminish the value of our invested assets and affect our sales, profitability and the investment returns credited to our customers; (11) our ability to pay dividends and meet our obligations may be constrained by the limitations on dividends Iowa insurance laws impose on Principal Life; (12) we may need to fund deficiencies in our closed block ("Closed Block"); assets allocated to the Closed Block benefit only the holders of Closed Block policies; (13) changes in regulations or accounting standards may reduce our profitability; (14) a challenge to the Insurance Commissioner of the State of Iowas approval of the plan of conversion could put the terms of our demutualization in question and reduce the market price of our common stock; (15) litigation and regulatory investigations may harm our financial strength and reduce our profitability; (16) sales of shares distributed in the demutualization may reduce the market price of our common stock; (17) applicable laws and our stockholder rights plan, certificate of incorporation and by laws may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider in their best interests; (18) a downgrade in our debt ratings may adversely affect our ability to secure funds; and (19) the impact of September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks and military and other actions may result in decreases in our net income, revenue and assets under management and may adversely affect our investment portfolio. Overview We are a leading provider of retirement savings, investment and insurance products and services. We have four operating segments: o U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation, which consists of our asset accumulation operations which provide products and services, including retirement savings and related investment products and services, and our 43 asset management operations conducted through Principal Capital Management, our U.S. based asset manager. We provide a comprehensive portfolio of asset accumulation products and services to businesses and individuals in the U.S., with a concentration on small and medium sized businesses, which we define as businesses with fewer than 1,000 employees. We offer to businesses products and services for defined contribution pension plans, including 401(k) and 403(b) plans, defined benefit pension plans and non qualified executive benefit plans. We also offer annuities, mutual funds and bank products and services to the employees of our business customers and other individuals. o International Asset Management and Accumulation, which consists of BT Financial Group, our Australia based asset manager, and Principal International. Our acquisition of BT Financial Group in 1999 was a central element in the expansion of our international asset management and accumulation businesses. Through Principal International, we offer retirement products and services, annuities, mutual funds and life insurance through subsidiaries in Argentina, Chile, Mexico and Hong Kong and joint ventures in Brazil, Japan and India. o Life and Health Insurance, which provides individual life and disability insurance as well as group life and health insurance throughout the U.S. Our individual insurance products include interest sensitive life, traditional life and disability insurance. Our group insurance products include life, disability, medical, dental and vision insurance, and administrative services. o Mortgage Banking, which engages in originating, purchasing, selling and servicing residential mortgage loans in the U.S. We also have a Corporate and Other segment which consists of the assets and activities that have not been allocated to any other segment. Profitability Our profitability depends in large part upon our: o amount of assets under management; o spreads we earn on our policyholders general account balances; o ability to generate fee revenues greater than the amount it costs us to administer pension products, manage investments for retail and institutional clients and provide other administrative services; o ability to price our life and health insurance products at a level that enables us to earn a margin over the cost of providing benefits and the expense of acquiring and administering those products, which is primarily a function of competitive conditions, persistency, our ability to assess and manage trends in mortality and morbidity experience, our ability to generate investment earnings and our ability to maintain expenses in accordance with pricing assumptions; o ability to effectively monitor and price residential mortgage loans we originate, purchase, and sell and to manage the expenses we incur in servicing residential mortgage loans; o ability to effectively hedge the effect of interest rate changes on our residential mortgage servicing rights; o ability to manage our investment portfolio to maximize investment returns and minimize risks such as interest rate changes or defaults or impairments of invested assets; o ability to effectively hedge fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates; and o ability to manage our operating expenses. 44 Trends U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation Our sales of pension and other asset accumulation products and services in the U.S. have been affected by overall trends in the U.S. retirement services industry, as our customers have begun to rely less on defined benefit retirement plans, social security and other government programs. Current trends in the work environment include a more mobile workforce and the desire of employers to shift the market risk of retirement investments to employees by offering defined contribution plans rather than defined benefit plans. These trends are increasing the demand for defined contribution pension arrangements such as 401(k) plans, mutual funds or variable annuities. Also, the "baby boom" generation of U.S. workers has reached an age at which saving for retirement is critical and it continues to seek tax advantaged investment products for retirement. Considering these trends, assets under management increased as of December 31, 2001, primarily due to additional gross new deposits, retention of assets from existing clients, and shares of Principal Financial Group stock allocated to the separate account as part of our demutualization. The declining interest rate environment and poor performance in the equity markets in 2001 have decelerated our recent growth in assets under management. The following table provides a summary of U.S. Asset Accumulation assets under management as of December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999: U.S. Asset Accumulation As of Total assets under management (in billions) December 31, 2001.......... $ 74.6 December 31, 2000.......... 71.0 December 31, 1999.......... 70.3 Asset management services have been among the most profitable and rapidly growing sectors of the financial services industry, at both the retail and institutional level. We formally established Principal Capital Management, our U.S based asset manager, in 1999 to consolidate our investment operations and to enter the third party institutional asset management market. We seek to take advantage of current trends which indicate that both retail and institutional investors embrace specialization, providing increased fees to successful active managers with expertise in specialty and niche areas. Our U.S. third party assets under management increased $1.0 billion during 2001 as a result of the acquisition of Spectrum Asset Management, which became an affiliate of Principal Capital Management on October 1, 2001. The following table provides a summary of Principal Capital Managements affiliated and third party assets under management as of December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999: Principal Capital Management Affiliated Third party assets under assets under Total assets As of management management under management (in billions) December 31, 2001......... $ 78.4 $ 7.3 $ 85.7 December 31, 2000......... 76.9 6.3 83.2 December 31, 1999......... 77.5 4.7 82.2 International Asset Management and Accumulation Our international asset management and accumulation businesses focus on countries with a trend toward privatization of public retirement pension systems. Our acquisition of BT Financial Group in August 1999 is consistent with this strategy. We are seeking to take advantage of an Australian government requirement for all employers to contribute 8% of an employees salary to an employer sponsored defined contribution retirement plan, referred to as superannuation. The required employer contribution is scheduled to rise to 9% in 2002. 45 The governments of other countries have also instituted privatized pension systems requiring employees who join the labor force to contribute to a private pension system. With variations depending upon the specific country, we have targeted these markets for sales of retirement and related products and services, including defined contribution pension plans, annuities and mutual funds to individuals and businesses. In several of our international markets, we complement our sales of these products with sales of life insurance products. We have pursued our international strategy through a combination of start ups, acquisitions and joint ventures, which require infusions of capital consistent with our strategy of long term growth and profitability. Life and Health Insurance Our U.S. individual life insurance premiums have been influenced by both economic and industry trends. Both fee revenues and policyholder liabilities related to our interest sensitive life insurance products have increased due to customer preference for insurance products with variable investment and tax advantaged accumulation product options. Premiums and policyholder liabilities related to our individual traditional life insurance products have remained relatively flat. The following table provides a summary of our individual life insurance fee revenues, premiums and policyholder liabilities as of or for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999: Individual Life Insurance Interest sensitive life insurance Traditional life insurance Fee Policyholder Policyholder As of or for the year ended revenues liabilities(1) Premiums liabilities (in millions) December 31, 2001..................... $ 99.6 $1,748.4 $ 766.2 $ 5,712.7 December 31, 2000..................... 89.1 1,567.6 772.8 5,522.7 December 31, 1999..................... 61.7 1,237.2 780.8 5,331.6 (1) Includes separate account liabilities for policies with variable investment options. Improved pricing discipline in our group medical insurance business has affected pricing of premiums. In general, we reacted faster than the industry in 2000 to rising healthcare costs, raising our prices. That action depressed sales and increased lapses, causing a loss of membership and total premiums that continued into 2001. Our price increases have subsided to match cost trends, and competitors have increased their pricing more recently. Sales and lapses improved throughout 2001, and medical premiums grew during the last two quarters of 2001. Medical premiums were also affected by our decisions to exit under performing and non strategic businesses and markets. Effective January 1, 2000, we ceased new sales of our Medicare supplement insurance product and effective July 1, 2000, reinsured all existing Medicare supplement business. We continue to sell group medical business in 36 states. We also offer a complete array of non medical products (life, disability, dental and vision) and administrative services only business in all 50 states and have experienced growth in these products. Our group life insurance premiums declined in 2001 due largely to the loss of two large customers. Our group life and health insurance premiums and premium equivalents for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 were as follows: 46 Premiums and premium equivalents Group Group dental and Group life disability Group medical vision For the year ended insurance insurance insurance(1) insurance Fee for service (in millions) December 31, 2001...... $ 221.8 $ 98.2 $ 1,610.3 $ 351.1 $ 1,828.2 December 31, 2000...... 277.7 94.5 1,815.6 340.4 1,502.2 December 31, 1999...... 273.6 86.8 1,876.7 270.0 1,287.6 (1) Effective January 1, 2000, we ceased new sales of our Medicare supplement insurance and effective July 1, 2000, reinsured all existing Medicare supplement business. Mortgage Banking We believe residential mortgages play a central role in the financial planning activities of individuals in the U.S. As a result, our mortgage banking operations complement our portfolio of market driven financial products and services. Interest rate trends significantly impact our residential mortgage business. Through most of 1999, the strong economy coupled with relatively low interest rates created a favorable real estate market that increased production of residential mortgage loans throughout the industry and also contributed to an increase in residential mortgage loan refinancing. Starting late in 1999, interest rates increased, resulting in decreases in production and refinancing of residential mortgage loans throughout the industry. This trend reversed in 2001, when interest rates decreased, resulting in significant increases in mortgage loan production. We manage growth in the mortgage loan servicing portfolio, through retention of mortgage loan production and the sale and acquisition of mortgage loan servicing rights. Our servicing portfolio grew at a compound annual rate of 25% from December 31, 1999 through December 31, 2001, reflecting our increased retention of servicing rights of loans produced and acquisition of servicing rights. Growth in the mortgage loan servicing portfolio was slower in 2000, as a result of a decrease in mortgage loan production and an increase in sales of mortgage loan servicing rights. During 2001, the mortgage loan servicing portfolio grew as a result of an increase in mortgage loan production. Our residential mortgage loan production and the unpaid principal balances in our residential mortgage loan servicing portfolio as of or for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999 were as follows: Residential mortgage Residential mortgage As of or for the year ended loan production loan servicing portfolio (in millions) December 31, 2001........... $ 37,771.3 $ 80,530.5 December 31, 2000........... 8,311.8 55,987.4 December 31, 1999........... 13,307.3 51,875.5 Transactions Affecting Comparability of Results of Operations Acquisitions We acquired the following businesses, among others, during the past three years: Spectrum Asset Management. On October 1, 2001, Spectrum Asset Management became an affiliate of Principal Capital Management, LLC. The acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method and the results of operations of the acquired business have been included in our financial statements from the date of acquisition. We included revenues of $0.8 million in 2001 in our consolidated results of operations. BT Financial Group. On August 31, 1999, we acquired the outstanding stock of several companies affiliated with Bankers Trust Australia Group from Deutsche Bank AG at a purchase price of $1.4 billion. We issued unsecured long term debt of $665.0 million to partially fund the acquisition. We report this debt and 47 related interest expense in our Corporate and Other segment. The acquired companies now operate under the name of BT Financial Group. We accounted for the acquisition using the purchase method. The results of operations of the acquired companies have been included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of acquisition. We included revenues of $220.9 million, $285.5 million and $116.5 million in our consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. We included net loss of $14.8 million, net income of $6.5 million and net loss of $3.1 million in our consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. We accounted for the purchase price as follows: $897.4 million of identifiable intangibles; consisting primarily of management rights for the fund management business and the BT brand name; $38.5 million of workforce intangibles and $408.6 million of resulting goodwill. We are amortizing these intangible assets on a straight line basis over 40, 8 and 25 years, respectively. We report the goodwill and other intangibles, including the related amortization, in our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment. The accounting for business combinations, goodwill and other intangible assets changed effective January 1, 2002. The accounting change includes the adoption of a non amortization, impairment only model for our goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets and a more stringent impairment test methodology (fair value based on discounted cash flows) for measuring and recognizing impairment losses. See "Critical Accounting Policies Accounting for Business Combinations" for a discussion of our planned adoption of the new accounting statements. Dispositions We entered into dispositions or disposed of the following businesses, among others, during the past three years: Coventry Health Care. Effective April 1, 1998, we transferred substantially all of our managed care operations to Coventry Corporation in exchange for a 42% non majority ownership position in the resulting entity, Coventry Health Care, Inc. ("Coventry"). In September 2000, we sold a portion of our equity ownership position, which reduced our ownership to approximately 25% and resulted in a realized capital gain of $13.9 million, net of tax. The investment in Coventry was $146.0 million and $122.9 million as of December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. We report our investment in Coventry in our Corporate and Other segment and account for it using the equity method. Our share of Coventrys net income was $19.8 million, $20.0 million and $19.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. On November 30, 2001, we announced we had entered into an agreement to sell our remaining stake of approximately 15.0 million shares of Coventry common stock. The transaction was completed on February 1, 2002. PT Asuransi Jiwa Principal Indonesia. On September 25, 2001, we disposed of all the stock of PT Asuransi Jiwa Principal Indonesia, our subsidiary in Indonesia. We currently have no business operations in Indonesia. We received nominal proceeds, which resulted in a realized capital loss of $6.7 million. Total assets of our operations in Indonesia as of December 31, 2000, were $3.2 million. We included nominal revenues and net loss from our operations in Indonesia in our consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999. Principal International Espana, S.A. de Seguros de Vida. On February 15, 2001, we disposed of all of the stock of Principal International Espana, S.A. de Seguros de Vida, our subsidiary in Spain, for nominal proceeds, resulting in a realized capital loss of $38.4 million, or $21.0 million net of tax, ceasing our business operations in Spain. Total assets of our operations in Spain as of December 31, 2000, were $222.7 million. We included revenues of $49.4 million and $51.7 million from our operations in Spain in our consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Our operations in Spain contributed net loss of $1.2 million and net income of $0.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. We did not include revenues or net income from our operations in Spain in our consolidated results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2001. 48 Reinsurance Transactions Effective January 1, 2002, we entered into a reinsurance agreement to reinsure certain group medical insurance contracts, which should result in reduced volatility of our group medical insurance earnings. Effective July 1, 2000, we entered into a reinsurance agreement with General & Cologne Life Re of America to reinsure 100% of our Medicare supplement insurance business. Medicare supplement insurance premiums were $98.4 million and $164.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Operating Earnings and Non Recurring Items For the year ended December 31, 2001, we excluded $31.1 million of non recurring items, net of tax, from net income for our presentation of consolidated operating earnings. The non recurring items included the (1) negative effects of: (a) expenses related to our demutualization ($18.6 million); (b) a cumulative effect of change in accounting related to our implementation of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities ("SFAS 133") ($10.7 million); and (c) an increase to our loss contingency reserve for sales practices litigation ($5.9 million) and (2) the positive effect of investment income generated from the proceeds of our IPO ($4.1 million). For the year ended December 31, 2000, we excluded $101.0 million of non recurring items, net of tax, from net income for our presentation of consolidated operating earnings. The non recurring items included the negative effects of: (1) a loss contingency reserve established for sales practices litigation ($93.8 million); and (2) expenses related to our demutualization ($7.2 million). Fluctuations in Foreign Currency to U.S. Dollar Exchange Rates Fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates for countries in which we have operations can affect reported financial results. In years when foreign currencies weaken against the U.S. dollar, translating foreign currencies into U.S. dollars results in fewer U.S. dollars to be reported. When foreign currencies strengthen, translating foreign currencies into U.S. dollars results in more U.S. dollars to be reported. In January 2002, the Argentine government ended its tie of the Argentine peso to the U.S. dollar, creating a dual currency system with an official fixed exchange rate of 1.4 pesos to 1.0 U.S. dollar for import and export transactions and a "free" floating exchange rate for other transactions, subsequently floating the Argentine peso in February. The devaluation is not expected to materially impact our consolidated results of operations. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations create variances in our financial statement line items but have not had a material impact on our consolidated operating earnings and net income. Our consolidated operating earnings were negatively impacted $1.7 million, $0.6 million and $0.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively, as a result of fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates. For a discussion of our approaches to foreign currency exchange rate risk, see Part II, Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk." Enron In December 2001, Enron Corp., along with certain of its subsidiaries, filed voluntary petitions for Chapter 11 reorganization with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court. As a result, we recognized realized losses in 2001 for other than temporary impairments of $71.9 million related to our exposure to Enron Corp. and Enron related entities. Also included in net realized capital gains and losses in 2001 were losses of $65.8 million related to the sales of Enron investments. As of December 31, 2001, the remaining carrying amount of our investment in Enron Corp. and Enron related entities was $45.5 million. Demutualization and Initial Public Offering Effective October 26, 2001, Principal Mutual Holding Company converted from a mutual insurance holding company ("MIHC") to a stock company. All policyholder membership interests in Principal Mutual Holding Company were extinguished on that date and eligible policyholders of the MIHC received, in aggregate, 260.8 million shares of common stock, $1,177.5 million of cash and $472.6 million of policy credits as compensation. 49 In connection with the restructuring effective October 26, 2001, Principal Mutual Holding Company and two of its subsidiaries, Principal Financial Group, Inc., an Iowa corporation, and Principal Financial Services, Inc., an Iowa corporation, merged with and into Principal Iowa Newco, Inc., an Iowa corporation, which changed its name to Principal Financial Services, Inc. ("PFSI"). PFSI is a wholly owned subsidiary of Principal Financial Group, Inc., a Delaware corporation. In addition, on October 26, 2001, we completed our initial public offering ("IPO") in which we issued 100.0 million shares of common stock at a price of $18.50 per share. Net proceeds from the IPO were $1,753.9 million, of which $64.2 million was retained by Principal Financial Group, Inc., and $1,689.7 million was contributed to Principal Life. Proceeds were net of offering costs of $96.5 million and a related tax benefit of $0.4 million. On November 9, 2001, we issued 15.0 million additional shares of common stock, at a price of $18.50 per share, as a result of the exercise of over allotment options granted to underwriters in the IPO. Net proceeds from the over allotment were $265.4 million. Costs relating to the demutualization, excluding costs relating to the IPO, incurred through December 31, 2001, were $18.6 million and $7.2 million, net of tax, in 2001 and 2000, respectively. Demutualization expenses consist primarily of printing and mailing costs and our aggregate cost of engaging independent accounting, actuarial, financial, investment banking, legal and other consultants to advise us on the demutualization. In addition, our costs include the costs of the advisors of the Insurance Commissioner of the State of Iowa and the New York State Insurance Department, other regulatory authorities and internal allocated costs for staff and related costs associated with the demutualization. Terrorist Attacks in the U.S. On September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks in the U.S. resulted in significant loss of life and property, as well as interruption of business activities and an overall disruption of the world economy. As of December 31, 2001, we recognized $6.7 million, net of income tax and reinsurance, in our Life and Health Insurance segment in losses from individual and group life and disability insurance claims from these events. The impact of the events of September 11, 2001, reduced our assets under management as a result of the declines in the U.S., Australian and other stock markets. These declines in the securities markets and reduced commercial and economic activity suppressed growth in our operating earnings and revenues during 2001. Some of the assets in our investment portfolio may be adversely affected by the volatility in the securities markets and economic activity caused by the September 11, 2001 terrorist attacks and heightened security measures. In particular, this may lead to possible write downs, loss of value or impairments with regard to securities issued by companies affected by these events. On December 31, 2001, we held corporate fixed maturity securities in the following sectors impacted most significantly by the September 11, 2001, terrorist attacks (carrying amounts noted in parenthesis): airlines ($245.9 million in public debt and $208.3 million in private debt), comprised mostly of equipment trust certificate transactions secured by aircraft; airline manufacturers and equipment providers ($239.0 million), comprised of public and private unsecured debt; property and casualty insurance companies ($28.9 million), comprised of public unsecured debt; and hotels and gaming companies ($168.9 million), comprised of public and private debt secured by hotel properties. As of December 31, 2001, we have not recognized any related other than temporary impairment of these assets. Critical Accounting Policies The increasing complexity of the business environment and applicable authoritative accounting guidance requires us to closely monitor our accounting policies. We have identified four critical accounting policies that are complex and require significant judgment. A summary of our critical accounting policies is intended to enhance the readers ability to assess our financial condition and results of operations and the potential volatility due to changes in estimates and changes in guidance. Accounting for Business Combinations Our goodwill and other intangibles include the cost of acquired subsidiaries in excess of the fair value of the tangible net assets recorded in connection with acquisitions. These assets are amortized on a straight line basis generally over 8 to 40 years. The carrying amounts of goodwill and other intangibles are 50 reviewed periodically for indicators of impairment in value, which in the view of management are other than temporary, including unexpected or adverse changes in the economic or competitive environments in which we operate, and profitability analyses on the relevant subsidiary. If facts and circumstances suggest that a subsidiarys goodwill and other intangibles are impaired, we determine whether the sum of the estimated undiscounted future cash flows of the subsidiary is less than the carrying value. If the undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying value, an impairment loss is recognized for the excess of the carrying amount of assets over fair value. We must exercise certain judgments and make estimates in the application of our policy for business combinations. We have some discretion in determining the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, lives assigned to acquired intangibles, the resulting amortization period, what indicators will trigger an impairment, whether those indicators are other than temporary, what economic or competitive factors affect valuation, valuation methodology, and key assumptions including discount rates and cash flow estimates. In June 2001, the FASB issued SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations ("SFAS 141"), and SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets ("SFAS 142"). SFAS 141 requires that the purchase method of accounting be used for all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001. SFAS 141 also includes guidance on the initial recognition and measurement of goodwill and other intangible assets arising from business combinations completed after June 30, 2001. SFAS 142, effective January 1, 2002, prohibits the amortization of goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives. Intangible assets with finite useful lives will continue to be amortized over their estimated useful lives. In 2001, our amortization expense for goodwill and intangible assets was $54.7 million, of which $48.5 million will not continue after January 1, 2002. Additionally, SFAS 142 requires that goodwill and indefinite lived intangible assets be reviewed for impairment at least annually. This includes a more stringent impairment test methodology (fair value based on discounted cash flows) for measuring and recognizing impairment losses. We have estimated the impairment amount that will result from the adoption of SFAS 142 on January 1, 2002, and expect an after tax impairment of approximately $300.0 million. The impairment will be recognized in our first quarter 2002 consolidated financial statements as a cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle. Valuation of Invested Assets Valuation Policies. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities, we are required to classify our investments into one of three categories: held to maturity, available for sale or trading. We determine the appropriate classification of fixed maturity securities at the time of purchase. Fixed maturity securities include bonds, mortgage backed securities, and redeemable preferred stock. We classify our fixed maturity securities as either available for sale or trading and, accordingly, carry them at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses related to available for sale securities are reflected in stockholders equity net of related deferred policy acquisition costs and applicable taxes. Unrealized gains and losses related to trading securities are reflected in net realized capital gains and losses. The cost of fixed maturity securities is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accrual of discounts, both computed using the interest method. The cost of fixed maturity securities is adjusted for declines in value that are other than temporary. Impairments in value deemed to be other than temporary are reported as a component of net realized capital gains and losses. For loan backed and structured securities, we recognize income using a constant effective yield based on currently anticipated prepayments as determined by broker dealer surveys or internal estimates and the estimated lives of the securities. Equity securities include common stock and non redeemable preferred stock. The cost of equity securities is adjusted for declines in value that are other than temporary. Impairments in value deemed to be other than temporary are reported as a component of net realized capital gains and losses. Equity securities are classified as available for sale and, accordingly, are carried at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses related to available for sale securities are reflected in stockholders equity net of related deferred policy acquisition costs and applicable taxes. Real estate investments are reported at cost less accumulated depreciation. The initial cost bases of properties acquired through loan foreclosures are the lower of the fair market values of the properties at the time of foreclosure or the outstanding loan balance. Buildings and land improvements are generally depreciated on the straight line method over the estimated useful life of improvements, and tenant improvement costs are depreciated on the straight line method over the term of the related lease. We recognize impairment losses for our properties when indicators of impairment are present and a propertys expected undiscounted cash flows are not sufficient to recover the propertys carrying value. In such cases, the cost bases of the properties are reduced to fair value. Real estate expected to be disposed is carried at the lower of cost or fair value, less cost to sell, with valuation allowances established accordingly and depreciation no longer recognized. Any impairment losses and any changes in valuation allowances are reported as net realized capital losses. 51 Commercial and residential mortgage loans are generally reported at cost adjusted for amortization of premiums and accrual of discounts, computed using the interest method, and net of valuation allowances. Any changes in the valuation allowances are reported as net realized capital gains and losses. We measure impairment based upon the present value of expected cash flows discounted at the loans effective interest rate or the loans observable market price. If foreclosure is probable, the measurement of any valuation allowance is based upon the fair value of the collateral. Residential mortgage loans held for sale and commercial mortgage loans held for sale are carried at lower of cost or fair value, less cost to sell, and reported as mortgage loans in the statements of financial position. We sell commercial mortgage loans to an unconsolidated trust which then issues mortgage backed securities. We may retain interests in the loans by purchasing portions of the securities from the issuance. Gain or loss on the sales of the mortgages depends in part on the previous carrying amounts of the financial assets involved in the transfer, which is allocated between the assets sold and the retained interests based on their relative fair value at the date of transfer. Fair values are determined by quoted market prices of external buyers of each class of security purchased. The retained interests are thereafter carried at fair value with other fixed maturity investments. We also sell residential mortgage loans and retain servicing rights which are retained interests in the sold loans. Gain or loss on the sales of the loans depends in part on the previous carrying amounts of the financial assets sold and the retained interests based on their relative fair values at the date of the transfer. To obtain fair values, quoted market prices are used if available. However, quotes are generally not available for retained interests, so we estimate fair value based on the present value of the future expected cash flows using our best estimates of the key assumptions prepayment speeds and option adjusted spreads commensurate with the risks involved. We have developed a margin lending securitization program whereby we sell receivables to an unconsolidated trust that packages and sells interests to investors. We retain interest bearing subordinated tranches. The receivables are sold at face value, which approximates cost and fair value, to an unconsolidated trust, with no gain or loss recognized on the sale. Retained interests are initially carried at cost based on their fair values at the date of transfer, then carried at fair value thereafter. We recognize impairment losses for fixed maturities and equity securities when declines in value are other than temporary. Corporate private placement bonds represent a primary area of credit risk exposure. The corporate private placement bond portfolio is diversified by issuer and industry. We monitor the restrictive bond covenants which are intended to regulate the activities of issuers and control their leveraging capabilities. Mortgage loans on real estate are considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to contractual terms of the loan agreement. When we determine that a loan is impaired, a provision for loss is established for the difference between the carrying amount of the mortgage loan and the estimated value. Estimated value is based on either the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at the loans effective interest rate, the loans observable market price or fair value of the collateral. The provision for losses is reported as a net realized capital loss. Mortgage loans deemed to be uncollectible are charged against the allowance for losses, and subsequent recoveries are credited to the allowance for losses. The allowance for losses is maintained at a level believed adequate by us to absorb estimated probable credit losses. Our periodic evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for losses is based on our past loan loss experience, known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrowers ability to repay, the estimated value of the underlying collateral, composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and other relevant factors. The evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires estimating the amounts and timing of future cash flows expected to be received on impaired loans that may change. Valuation Models and Assumptions. Since many of the SFAS 115 assets that we invest in are private market assets, there are not readily available market quotes available to determine the fair market value of these assets as required by SFAS 115. These assets are valued by discounting future cash flows. The discount rate is based on a Treasury curve sourced from Bloomberg, credit spreads provided by Capital Management Sciences, and a liquidity spread add on determined by us. The spreads used are unique by credit rating for each asset. We also determine the credit ratings used in the process. 52 We must also determine the fair value of our non exchange traded derivative contracts. Many of these values are calculated via models built in Bloomberg and are validated by confirmations with the counterparties and our valuation model. Assumptions including prepayment speeds, defaults, and losses are used in the assessment of both the base case and subsequent testing of yields and valuations of asset backed securities and commercial mortgage backed securities. The assessment of the other than temporary losses and write downs of invested assets (private bonds, mortgages, and real estate) also involves significant judgment. Both the recognition of a triggering event (timing) and the market value of private assets involves subjective assessments by us. In addition, the determination of the calculation and the adequacy of the mortgage loan reserve are also subjective. Our assessment of the adequacy of this reserve is based on our past experience, known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect a borrowers ability to repay, the estimated value of the underlying security, composition of the portfolio, and current economic conditions. Insurance Reserves and Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs Insurance reserves. Contractholder and policyholder liabilities (contractholder funds, future policy benefits and claims and other policyholder funds) include reserves for investment contracts and reserves for universal life, limited payment, participating and traditional life insurance policies. Investment contracts are contractholders funds on deposit with us and generally include reserves for pension and annuity contracts. Reserves on investment contracts are equal to the cumulative deposits less any applicable charges plus credited interest. Reserves for universal life insurance contracts are equal to cumulative premiums less charges plus credited interest which represents the account balances that accrue to the benefit of the policyholders. Reserves for non participating term life insurance contracts are computed on a basis of assumed investment yield, mortality, morbidity and expenses, including a provision for adverse deviation, which generally varies by plan, year of issue and policy duration. Investment yield is based on our experience. Mortality, morbidity and withdrawal rate assumptions are based on our experience and are periodically reviewed against both industry standards and experience. Reserves for participating life insurance contracts are based on the net level premium reserve for death and endowment policy benefits. This net level premium reserve is calculated based on dividend fund interest rate and mortality rates guaranteed in calculating the cash surrender values described in the contract. The amount of dividends to policyholders is approved annually by Principal Lifes board of directors. The amount of dividends to be paid to policyholders is determined after consideration of several factors including interest, mortality, morbidity and other expense experience for the year and judgment as to the appropriate level of statutory surplus to be retained by Principal Life. At the end of the reporting period, Principal Life establishes a dividend liability for the pro rata portion of the dividends expected to be paid on or before the next policy anniversary date. Some of our policies and contracts require payment of fees in advance for services that will be rendered over the estimated lives of the policies and contracts. These payments are established as unearned revenue reserves upon receipt and included in other policyholder funds in the consolidated statements of financial position. These unearned revenue reserves are amortized to operations over the estimated lives of these policies and contracts in relation to the emergence of estimated gross profit margins. The liability for unpaid accident and health claims is an estimate of the ultimate net cost of reported and unreported losses not yet settled. This liability is estimated using actuarial analyses and case basis evaluations. Although considerable variability is inherent in such estimates, we believe that the liability for unpaid claims is adequate. These estimates are continually reviewed and, as adjustments to this liability become necessary, such adjustments are reflected in current operations. Reserves are the liabilities held on our books representing estimates of the amounts that will come due, at some point in our future, to our contractholders. The methods of establishing reserves are dictated by the FASB and NAIC, allowing for some degree of managerial judgment. As a basis for making management decisions, we conduct studies of our experience: mortality, morbidity, investment and expense. We compare our results to that of the industry to ensure actuarial credibility. Once this information is gathered, following common industry practices, the reserves are set. Our reserve levels are reviewed throughout the year using internal analysis, the annual audit, and statutory 53 asset adequacy analysis. To the extent experience indicates a potential redundancy/deficiency, reserves would be released/increased. Deferred policy acquisition costs. Commissions and other costs (underwriting, issuance and agency expenses and first year bonus interest) that vary with and are primarily related to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance policies and investment contract business are capitalized to the extent recoverable. Maintenance costs and acquisition costs that are not deferrable are charged to operations as incurred. Deferred policy acquisition costs for universal life type insurance contracts and participating life insurance policies and investment contracts are being amortized over the lives of the policies and contracts in relation to the emergence of estimated gross profit margins. This amortization is adjusted retrospectively when estimates of current or future gross profits and margins to be realized from a group of products and contracts are revised. The deferred policy acquisition costs of non participating term life insurance policies are being amortized over the premium paying period of the related policies using assumptions consistent with those used in computing policyholder liabilities. Deferred policy acquisition costs are subject to recoverability testing at the time of policy issue and loss recognition testing at the end of each accounting period. Deferred policy acquisition costs would be written off to the extent that it is determined that future policy premiums and investment income or gross profit margins would not be adequate to cover related losses and expenses. The deferred policy acquisition cost asset is amortized in relation to the gross profits of the underlying policies, over the expected lifetime of these policies. At issue, the pattern of expected gross profits is established based on our expectation of future profit margins. These profit margins contain assumptions relating to mortality, morbidity, investment yield and expenses. As actual experience emerges, the profit margins may vary from those expected either in magnitude or timing. For our universal life and investment contracts, we are required by accounting practice to reflect the actual gross profits of the underlying policies. In addition, we are required to revise our assumptions regarding future experience as soon as the current assumptions become no longer actuarially credible. Both actions, reflecting actual experience and changing future estimates, can cause changes in the amount of the asset and the pattern of future amortization. Mortgage Loan Servicing Rights Mortgage loan servicing rights represent the cost of purchasing or originating the right to receive cash flows from servicing mortgage loans. These costs are capitalized and amortized to operations over the estimated remaining life of the underlying loans using the interest method and taking into account appropriate prepayment assumptions. Capitalized mortgage loan servicing rights are periodically assessed for impairment, which is recognized in the consolidated statements of operations during the period in which impairment occurs by establishing a corresponding valuation allowance. For purposes of performing impairment evaluation, we stratify the servicing portfolio on the basis of specified predominant risk characteristics, including loan type and note rate. A valuation model is used to determine the fair value of each stratum. Cash flows are calculated using an internal prepayment model and discounted at a spread to London Inter Bank Offer Rates ("LIBOR"). External valuations are obtained for comparison purposes. We must exercise certain judgments and make estimates in the application of this policy. We have some discretion in determining interest rate assumptions to use in its estimates, but we are guided by the benchmark curve of LIBOR/Swap term structure, the volatility of interest rates derived from historical volatility in LIBOR/Swap rates, and the addition of mortgage spread to the modeled 10 year swap rate to derive the mortgage refinancing rate. We develop prepayment models internally by examining the historical prepayment experience of our portfolio, given the historical interest rate environment. Servicing cost assumptions are derived from budgeted costs, interest differential, and foreclosure losses based on historical evidence, and amortization based on expected non discounted cash flows. Servicing revenue assumptions are derived from historical experience and include principal and interest float, escrow float, prepayment float, late charges collected, and ancillary income. Ratings Insurance companies are assigned financial strength ratings by rating agencies based upon factors relevant to policyholders. Ratings provide both industry participants and insurance consumers meaningful information on specific insurance companies. Higher ratings generally indicate financial stability and a stronger ability to pay claims. 54 Principal Life has been assigned the following ratings: Rating Agency Financial Strength Rating Rating Structure A.M. Best Company, Inc. A+ ("Superior") with a stable Second highest of outlook 16 rating levels Fitch Ratings AA ("Very Strong") with a stable Third highest of outlook 24 rating levels Moodys Investors Service Aa2 ("Excellent") with a stable Third highest of outlook 21 rating levels Standard & Poors Rating AA ("Very Strong") with a Third highest of Services negative outlook 21 rating levels A.M. Bests ratings for insurance companies range from "A++" to "S". A.M. Best indicates that "A++" and "A+" ratings are assigned to those companies that in A.M. Bests opinion have achieved superior overall performance when compared to the norms of the life insurance industry and have demonstrated a strong ability to meet their policyholder and other contractual obligations. Fitchs ratings for insurance companies range from "AAA" to "D". Fitch indicates that "AA" ratings are assigned to those companies that have demonstrated financial strength and a very strong capacity to meet policyholder and contractholder obligations on a timely basis. Moodys ratings for insurance companies range from "Aaa" to "C". Moodys indicates that "A ("Excellent")" ratings are assigned to those companies that have demonstrated excellent financial security. Standard & Poors ratings for insurance companies range from "AAA" to "R". Standard & Poors indicates that "AA" ratings are assigned to those companies that have demonstrated very strong financial security. In evaluating a companys financial and operating performance, these rating agencies review its profitability, leverage and liquidity, as well as its book of business, the adequacy and soundness of its reinsurance, the quality and estimated market value of its assets, the adequacy of its policy reserves and the experience and competency of its management. We believe that our strong ratings are an important factor in marketing our products to our distributors and customers, since ratings information is broadly disseminated and generally used throughout the industry. Our ratings reflect each rating agencys opinion of our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet our obligations to policyholders and are not evaluations directed toward the protection of investors. Such ratings are neither a rating of securities nor a recommendation to buy, hold or sell any security, including our common stock. Recent Developments On February 1, 2002, we sold our remaining stake of 15.1 million shares in Coventry Health Care, Inc. common stock and a warrant, exercisable for approximately 3.1 million shares of Coventry common stock. Total estimated proceeds from the completion of this transaction are $325.2 million and we will recognize an estimated realized capital gain of $183.1 million, $114.6 million net of tax, during the first quarter of 2002. On February 11, 2002, Fitch Ratings announced that Principal Life Insurance Companys financial strength rating had been lowered from "AA+" to "AA". The "AA" rating is considered to be "Very Strong". The outlook for the rating is "Stable". On February 26, 2002, the companys board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $450.0 million of the companys common stock. The repurchases will be made in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions from time to time, depending upon market conditions. Also on that date, Principal Life declared an ordinary dividend of $390.0 million payable to its parent on or about April 5, 2002. Results of Operations The following table presents summary consolidated financial information for the years indicated: 55 For the year ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Income Statement Data: Revenues: Premiums and other considerations........................ $ 4,122.3 $ 3,996.4 $ 3,937.6 Fees and other revenues.................................. 1,814.7 1,576.3 1,287.3 Net investment income.................................... 3,394.5 3,172.3 3,072.0 Net realized capital gains (losses)...................... (514.0) 139.9 404.5 Total revenues......................................... 8,817.5 8,884.9 8,701.4 Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses............... 5,482.1 5,232.3 5,260.9 Dividends to policyholders............................. 313.7 312.7 304.6 Operating expenses..................................... 2,573.2 2,479.4 2,070.3 Total expenses......................................... 8,369.0 8,024.4 7,635.8 Income before income taxes and cumulative effect of accounting change........................................ 448.5 860.5 1,065.6 Income taxes.............................................. 79.0 240.3 323.5 Income before cumulative effect of accounting change... 369.5 620.2 742.1 Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of related income taxes............................................. (10.7) Net income............................................. $ 358.8 $ 620.2 $ 742.1 Other Data: Net income................................................ $ 358.8 $ 620.2 $ 742.1 Less: Net realized capital gains (losses), as adjusted........ (321.0) 93.1 266.9 Non recurring items..................................... (31.1) (101.0) Operating earnings........................................ $ 710.9 $ 628.1 $ 475.2 Year Ended December 31, 2001 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2000 Premiums and other considerations increased $125.9 million, or 3%, to $4,122.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $3,996.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The increase reflected a $240.9 million, or 46%, increase from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily a result of an increase in premiums from single premium group annuities with life contingencies, which are typically used to fund defined benefit pension plan terminations. The premium income we receive from these contracts fluctuates due to the variability in the number and size of pension plan terminations in the market, the interest rate environment and our ability to attract new sales. In addition, a $124.4 million, or 56%, increase from the International Asset Management and Accumulation segment primarily resulted from the sale of a large group annuity contract with life contingencies in Mexico. The increases were partially offset by a $239.4 million, or 7%, decrease from the Life and Health Insurance segment, related to our decision to reinsure 100% of our group Medicare supplement insurance business effective July 1, 2000. Life and Health Insurance segment premiums also decreased due to group medical premium rate increases in 2000, which led to increased lapses and lower sales in 2001. Fees and other revenues increased $238.4 million, or 15%, to $1,814.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $1,576.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The increase was primarily due to a $350.8 million, or 93%, increase from the Mortgage Banking segment primarily resulting from mortgage loan production fee revenues, reflecting the increase in mortgage loan production volume. The increase was also due to a $26.7 million, or 12%, increase from the Life and Health Insurance segment, primarily related to an increase in group fee for service fee revenues, a result of growth in the business and fee rate increases, and an increase in interest sensitive life insurance fee revenues, a result of growth in that block of business. The increases were partially offset by an $85.8 million, or 12%, decrease from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment primarily related to a decrease in surrender charge and market value adjustment revenues from pension products, primarily due to a declining interest rate environment and a decrease in the recognition of front end fee revenues, a result of changes in assumptions consistent with unlocking of deferred policy acquisition costs in 2001. The increases were also partially offset by a $45.1 million, or 15%, decrease from the International Asset Management and Accumulation segment primarily as a 56 result of declining assets under management for the year ended December 31, 2001, and the weakening of the Australian dollar versus the U.S. dollar. Net investment income increased $222.2 million, or 7%, to $3,394.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $3,172.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The increase was primarily a result of a $1,742.0 million, or 4%, increase in average invested assets and cash and also from an increase in investment yields, primarily resulting from our investment policy during 2000 to reposition the investment portfolio to maximize investment returns by selling lower yielding fixed income securities to allow for reinvestment in higher yielding fixed income securities. The yield on average invested assets and cash was 7.7% for the year ended December 31, 2001, compared to 7.5% for the year ended December 31, 2000. Net realized capital gains (losses) decreased $653.9 million to $514.0 million of net realized capital losses for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $139.9 million of net realized capital gains for the year ended December 31, 2000. Realized capital losses of $137.7 million related to sales and impairments of our investment in Enron and related entities. These entities are in the process of bankruptcy proceedings. We sold our investment in United Payors and United Providers, and realized a capital gain of $90.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2000. We realized a capital loss of $38.4 million on the sale of our operations in Spain in 2001. We realized $22.0 million in losses in our international operations from the restructuring of government bonds in Argentina and $6.7 million of realized losses in our U.S. operations related to Argentine based bonds in 2001. The decrease also related to permanent impairments of other fixed maturity and equity securities which were $152.6 million, during the year ended December 31, 2001. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $249.8 million, or 5%, to $5,482.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $5,232.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The increase was primarily due to a $272.5 million, or 12%, increase from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily reflecting the increase in reserves resulting from an increase in sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies. The increase was also due to a $145.3 million, or 55%, increase from the International Asset Management and Accumulation segment due to an increase in the change in reserves and policy and contract benefit payments, primarily the result of the sale of a large group annuity contract with life contingencies in Mexico. The increases were partially offset by a $168.4 million, or 6%, decrease from the Life and Health Insurance segment, due to a reduction in group medical insurance business, improved group medical insurance claim experience and our decision to reinsure 100% of our group Medicare supplement insurance business effective July 1, 2000. Dividends to policyholders increased $1.0 million to $313.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $312.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The increase was attributable to a $2.1 million, or 46%, increase from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment, resulting from an increase in dividends for our pension full service accumulation products. The increase was offset by a $1.1 million decrease from the Life and Health Insurance segment due to a change in methodology of estimating dividends. Additionally, the dividends in the Closed Block were reduced due to accumulated experience losses. Operating expenses increased $93.8 million, or 4%, to $2,573.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $2,479.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The increase was primarily due to a $269.6 million, or 95%, increase from the Mortgage Banking segment primarily resulting from an impairment of mortgage loan servicing rights and, to a lesser extent, due to growth in the mortgage loan servicing portfolio and an increase in the mortgage loan production volume. The increase also reflected a $22.2 million, or 3%, increase from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily reflecting an increase in Principal Bank operating expenses related to growth in bank operations and an increase in Principal Capital Managements operating expenses related to increases in compensation and recruiting costs and depreciation and securitization expenses. The increases were partially offset by an $89.1 million, or 53%, decrease from the Corporate and Other segment, primarily related to a non recurring loss contingency reserve established during the year ended December 31, 2000, for sales practices litigation. The increases were also partially offset by a $79.0 million, or 9%, decrease from the Life and Health Insurance segment due to our decision to reinsure 100% of our group Medicare supplement insurance business effective July 1, 2000. In addition, the increases were partially offset by a $29.9 million, or 8%, decrease from the International Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily as a result of the weakening of the Australian dollar versus the U.S. dollar. Income taxes decreased $161.3 million, or 67%, to $79.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $240.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The effective income tax rate was 18% for the year ended December 31, 2001, and 28% for the year ended December 31, 2000. The effective income tax 57 rates for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, were lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35% primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received. Our effective income tax rate was also reduced in 2001 due to additional tax benefits related to excess tax over book capital losses realized from the sales of our operations in Spain and Indonesia. The decrease in the effective tax rate to 18% in 2001 from 28% in 2000 was primarily due to the decrease in net income before income taxes relative to our permanent tax differences which did not decrease. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of the cumulative effect of accounting change, net of related income taxes, net income decreased $261.4 million, or 42%, to $358.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $620.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The cumulative effect of accounting change was related to our implementation of SFAS 133. For the year ended December 31, 2001, non recurring items of $31.1 million, net of tax, included (1) the negative effects of: (a) expenses related to our demutualization ($18.6 million); (b) a cumulative effect of change in accounting related to our implementation of SFAS 133 ($10.7 million); and (c) an increase to our loss contingency reserve for sales practices litigation ($5.9 million) and (2) the positive effect of investment income generated from the proceeds of our IPO ($4.1 million). For the year ended December 31, 2000, non recurring items of $101.0 million, net of tax, included the negative effects of: (1) a loss contingency reserve established for sales practices litigation ($93.8 million); and (2) expenses related to our demutualization ($7.2 million). As a result of the foregoing factors and the exclusion of net realized capital gains (losses), as adjusted and nonrecurring items, operating earnings increased $82.8 million, or 13%, to $710.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $628.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The increase resulted from a $76.7 million increase from the Mortgage Banking segment, primarily due to an increase in mortgage loan production volume. The increase was also due to a $38.9 million, or 24%, increase from the Life and Health Insurance segment, primarily a result of individual disability insurance reserve strengthening during 2000, and improved margins on individual life insurance business resulting from higher investment yields. The increases were partially offset by a $29.6 million, or 44%, decrease from the Corporate and Other segment, primarily due to a net recovery in 2000 of previously paid interest related to a successful tax audit appeal. Year Ended December 31, 2000 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 1999 Premiums and other considerations increased $58.8 million, or 1%, to $3,996.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $3,937.6 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. The increase reflected a $59.9 million, or 2%, increase from the Life and Heath Insurance segment, primarily the result of increased sales of group dental insurance products and an increase in group medical premiums, primarily attributable to increased sales in 1999 and significant group medical premium rate increases. In addition, the increase was due to a $40.6 million, or 23%, increase from the International Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily related to sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies by new annuity companies we established in Mexico in July 1999 and in Argentina in August 1999. The increases were partially offset by a $41.3 million, or 7%, decrease from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily related to a decrease in premiums from single premium group annuities with life contingencies, which are typically used to fund defined benefit pension plan terminations. The premium income we receive from these contracts fluctuates due to the variability in the number and size of defined benefit pension plan terminations in the market and our ability to attract new sales. Fees and other revenues increased $289.0 million, or 22%, to $1,576.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $1,287.3 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. The increase was primarily due to a $199.6 million increase from the International Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily resulting from the inclusion of fees and other revenues contributed by BT Financial Group, which we acquired in August 1999. The increase was also due to a $90.3 million, or 15%, increase from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily attributable to an increase in administrative fee revenues, reflecting an increase in the amortization of front end fee revenues, a result of a change in our assumptions related to amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs attributable to pension products. We also received higher fee revenues related to surrender charges, which are fees charged to policyholders when they surrender an annuity for its cash value. Fee revenues also increased due to fees from pension customer directed investment transfers, reflecting the higher interest rate environment and the resulting increased customer account activity. Fee revenues for U.S. pension products and services also increased, reflecting increased assets under management in 1999. The increase was also due to a $49.8 million, or 28%, increase from the Life and Health Insurance segment, primarily related to growth in our interest sensitive life insurance block of business and increased fee revenues from our group fee for service business, primarily a result of an increase in members and fees. The increases were partially offset by a $31.2 million decrease from the Corporate and Other segment, which reflects a change in inter segment 58 eliminations included in this segment and the termination of a reinsurance and participation agreement under which we received fee revenues in 1999, but not in 2000. The increases were also partially offset by a $19.5 million, or 5%, decrease from the Mortgage Banking segment, primarily due to a decrease in residential mortgage loan production revenues as a result of the decrease in residential mortgage loan production volume during 2000. Net investment income increased $100.3 million, or 3%, to $3,172.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $3,072.0 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. The increase was primarily due to an increase in investment yields due to higher interest rates on new investments. The yield on average invested assets and cash was 7.5% in 2000, compared to 7.4% in 1999. The increase was also due to a $934.8 million, or 2%, increase in average invested assets and cash. Net realized capital gains decreased $264.6 million, or 65%, to $139.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $404.5 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. The decrease was due in part to a decrease in sales of invested assets, primarily equity securities, in 2000. In 1999, we sold a significant portion of our equity securities portfolio to reduce exposure to common stock and to realize appreciation. We also recognized an increase in net realized capital losses in 2000, compared to 1999, in our fixed income securities portfolio, reflecting our investment philosophy to reposition the investment portfolio to maximize investment returns by selling lower yielding fixed income securities to allow for reinvestment in higher yielding fixed income securities. In 1999, we sold a portion of our investment in United Payors and United Providers, a publicly traded service organization that acts as an intermediary between health care payors and health care providers, realizing a capital gain of $27.6 million. In 2000, we sold our remaining investment and realized a capital gain of $90.6 million. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $28.6 million, or 1%, to $5,232.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $5,260.9 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. The decrease was primarily due to a $55.5 million, or 2%, decrease from the Life and Health Insurance segment, primarily resulting from the release of group medical and group Medicare supplement claim reserves established in 1999. The claim reserves were established in 1999 as a result of poor claim experience during the first three quarters of 1999 and an expectation that claims would continue to increase through the second quarter of 2000. Group Medicare supplement benefits, claims and settlement expenses also decreased as a result of our decision to cease new sales of group Medicare supplement insurance effective January 1, 2000, and our decision to reinsure all existing business as of July 1, 2000. In addition, the decrease was related to a $24.7 million, or 1%, decrease from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment primarily resulting from a decrease in benefit payments and reserve changes reflecting the decrease in our block of pension experience rated business and an increase in our guaranteed business. The decreases were partially offset by a $52.1 million, or 25%, increase from the International Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily due to an increase in the change in reserves and policy and contract benefit payments, primarily related to additional sales of annuity products with life contingencies in Mexico, Argentina and Chile. Dividends to policyholders increased $8.1 million, or 3%, to $312.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $304.6 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. The increase was primarily attributable to a $12.5 million, or 4%, increase from the Life and Health Insurance segment due to increased dividends on traditional individual life insurance products, a result of a maturing in force block. The increase was partially offset by a $4.4 million, or 49%, decrease in dividends from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment, which reflected a decrease in our block of pension experience rated business. Operating expenses increased $409.1 million, or 20%, to $2,479.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $2,070.3 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. The increase was primarily due to a $160.2 million, or 76%, increase from the International Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily resulting from the inclusion of BT Financial Group in our financial results effective August 1999, including a $23.3 million increase amortization of goodwill and other intangibles. The increase also reflected a $121.5 million, or 20%, increase from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily due to a change in our assumptions related to amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs related to pension products and also due to an increase in pension salary and incentive compensation costs and other pension administrative expenses. In addition, the increase was due to a $116.0 million increase from the Corporate and Other segment, primarily related to an increase in our non recurring loss contingency reserve for sales practices litigation and demutualization costs as well as additional interest costs related to private debt securities and commercial paper issued in connection with our acquisition of BT Financial Group. The increase was also due to a $39.5 million, or 5%, increase from the Life and Health Insurance segment, primarily due to expenses related to our group Medicare supplement business and higher group medical commissions. The increases were partially offset by a $28.1 million, or 9%, 59 decrease from the Mortgage Banking segment, primarily a result of net gains we earned on hedges related to our servicing portfolio in 2000. Income taxes decreased $83.2 million, or 26%, to $240.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $323.5 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. The effective income tax rate was 28% for the year ended December 31, 2000 and 30% for the year ended December 31, 1999. The effective income tax rates for 2000 and 1999 were lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35%, primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received. As a result of the foregoing factors, net income decreased $121.9 million, or 16%, to $620.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $742.1 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. For the year ended December 31, 2000, non recurring items of $101.0 million, net of tax, included the negative effects of: (1) a loss contingency reserve established for sales practices litigation ($93.8 million); and (2) expenses related to our demutualization ($7.2 million). Operating earnings increased $152.9 million, or 32%, to $628.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $475.2 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. The increase resulted from a $71.6 million, or 79%, increase from the Life and Health Insurance segment, primarily due to improved earnings from our group medical business. The increase was also due to a $58.2 million increase from the Corporate and Other segment, primarily due to improved investment yields and lower expenses due in part to a net recovery of interest expense related to a successful tax audit appeal. In addition, the increase was due to a $29.9 million, or 78%, increase from the International Asset Management and Accumulation segment due to growth in our international operations, due in part to BT Financial Group, which we acquired in August 1999. Operating earnings from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment did not change as increases in revenues were offset by increases in expenses. These increases were partially offset by a $6.8 million, or 12%, decrease from the Mortgage Banking segment, primarily due to a decrease in mortgage loan production earnings, reflecting a decrease in production volume. Results of Operations by Segment We evaluate segment performance by segment operating earnings, which excludes the effect of net realized capital gains and losses, as adjusted, and non recurring events and transactions. Segment operating earnings are determined by adjusting U.S. GAAP net income for net realized capital gains and losses, as adjusted, and non recurring items that we believe are not indicative of overall operating trends. While these items may be significant components in understanding and assessing our consolidated financial performance, we believe the presentation of segment operating earnings enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting earnings attributable to the normal, recurring operations of our businesses. However, segment operating earnings are not a substitute for net income determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The following table presents segment information as of or for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999: 60 As of or for year ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Operating revenues by segment: U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation................... $ 3,800.0 $ 3,533.9 $ 3,472.6 International Asset Management and Accumulation.......... 734.0 630.7 379.6 Life and Health Insurance................................ 3,946.4 4,122.6 3,985.5 Mortgage Banking......................................... 757.4 359.8 398.3 Corporate and Other(1)................................... 100.8 97.1 61.9 Total operating revenues................................. 9,338.6 8,744.1 8,297.9 Net realized capital gains (losses), including recognition of front end fee revenues and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues............... (527.4) 140.8 403.5 Non recurring interest income(2)......................... 6.3 Total consolidated revenues............................ $ 8,817.5 $ 8,884.9 $ 8,701.4 Operating earnings (loss) by segment: U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation .................. $ 353.8 $ 356.6 $ 356.6 International Asset Management and Accumulation.......... (8.9) (8.5) (38.4) Life and Health Insurance................................ 201.2 162.3 90.7 Mortgage Banking......................................... 126.7 50.0 56.8 Corporate and Other ..................................... 38.1 67.7 9.5 Total operating earnings............................... 710.9 628.1 475.2 Net realized capital gains (losses), as adjusted(3)...... (321.0) 93.1 266.9 Non recurring items(4)................................... (31.1) (101.0) U.S. GAAP Reported: Net income............................................. $ 358.8 $ 620.2 $ 742.1 U.S. GAAP reported net income (loss) by segment: U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation .................. $ 178.3 $ 320.7 $ 321.2 International Asset Management and Accumulation.......... (38.1) (7.1) (30.7) Life and Health Insurance................................ 167.5 209.6 100.8 Mortgage Banking......................................... 126.7 50.0 56.8 Corporate and Other ..................................... (75.6) 47.0 294.0 Total net income....................................... $ 358.8 $ 620.2 $ 742.1 Total assets by segment: U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation(5)................ $68,543.8 $65,795.9 $65,096.4 International Asset Management and Accumulation.......... 4,956.9 5,525.9 5,926.8 Life and Health Insurance................................ 10,776.2 10,569.0 10,070.8 Mortgage Banking......................................... 2,718.8 1,556.3 1,737.7 Corporate and Other(6)................................... 1,354.8 957.8 1,121.5 Total assets........................................... $88,350.5 $84,404.9 $83,953.2 (1) Includes inter segment eliminations primarily related to internal investment management fee revenues, commission fee revenues paid to U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation agents for selling Life and Health Insurance segment insurance products, and real estate joint venture rental income. The Corporate and Other segment reported rental income from real estate joint ventures for office space used by other segments. (2) For the year ended December 31, 2001, non recurring interest income included the positive effect of investment income generated from the proceeds of our IPO. (3) Net realized capital gains (losses), as adjusted, are net of tax, related changes in the amortization pattern of deferred policy acquisition costs, recognition of front end fee revenues for sales charges on pension products and services and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues. 61 For the year ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Net realized capital gains (losses).............. $ (514.0) $ 139.9 $ 404.5 Certain market value adjustments to fee revenues...................................... (14.9) Recognition of front end fee revenues............ 1.5 0.9 (1.0) Net realized capital gains (losses), including recognition of front end fee revenues and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues.................................... (527.4) 140.8 403.5 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs related to net realized capital gains (losses)...................................... 18.6 (0.3) 4.4 Net realized capital gains (losses), including recognition of front end fee revenues and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues, net of related amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs....................................... (508.8) 140.5 407.9 Income tax effect ............................... 187.8 (47.4) (141.0) Net realized capital gains (losses), as adjusted.................................... $ (321.0) $ 93.1 $ 266.9 (4) For the year ended December 31, 2001, non recurring items of $31.1 million, net of tax, included (a) the negative effects of: (i) expenses related to our demutualization ($18.6 million); (ii) a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle related to our implementation of SFAS 133 ($10.7 million); and (iii) an increase to our loss contingency reserve for sales practices litigation ($5.9 million) and (b) the positive effect of investment income generated from the proceeds of our IPO ($4.1 million). For the year ended December 31, 2000, non recurring items of $101.0 million, net of tax, included the negative effects of: (a) a loss contingency reserve established for sales practices litigation ($93.8 million) and (b) expenses related to our demutualization ($7.2 million). (5) U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation assets increased $1.3 billion at December 31, 2001, primarily due to shares of the Principal Financial Group stock allocated to a separate account, a result of our demutualization. Activity of the separate account was reflected in both separate account assets and separate account liabilities and did not impact our results of operations. (6) Includes inter segment elimination amounts related to internally generated mortgage loans and an internal line of credit. The U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment and Life and Health Insurance segment reported mortgage loan assets issued for real estate joint ventures. These mortgage loans were reported as liabilities in the Corporate and Other segment. In addition, the Corporate and Other segment managed a revolving line of credit used by other segments. U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation Segment The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment for the years indicated: 62 For the year ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Operating Earnings Data: Operating revenues(1): Premiums and other considerations......... $ 766.3 $ 525.4 $ 566.7 Fees and other revenues................... 633.1 704.6 616.2 Net investment income..................... 2,400.6 2,303.9 2,289.7 Total operating revenues................ 3,800.0 3,533.9 3,472.6 Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses, including dividends to policyholders....... 2,589.8 2,315.2 2,344.3 Operating expenses........................ 773.9 740.9 626.3 Total expenses.......................... 3,363.7 3,056.1 2,970.6 Pre tax operating earnings................. 436.3 477.8 502.0 Income taxes............................... 82.5 121.2 145.4 Operating earnings......................... 353.8 356.6 356.6 Net realized capital losses, as adjusted... (164.7) (35.9) (35.4) Non recurring items....................... (10.8) U.S. GAAP Reported: Net income................................. $ 178.3 $ 320.7 $ 321.2 (1) Excludes net realized capital losses and their impact on recognition of front end fee revenues and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues. Year Ended December 31, 2001 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2000 Premiums and other considerations increased $240.9 million, or 46%, to $766.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $525.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The increase primarily resulted from a $236.5 million increase in premiums from single premium group annuities with life contingencies, which are typically used to fund defined benefit pension plan terminations. Despite a less attractive economic environment in late 2001, strong sales early in 2001 resulted in increased premiums for the year. Sales were not as strong late in the year due to poor economic conditions. The premium income we receive from these contracts fluctuates due to the variability in the number and size of pension plan terminations in the market, the interest rate environment and our ability to attract new sales. Fees and other revenues decreased $71.5 million, or 10%, to $633.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $704.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. A decrease of $83.4 million related to a decrease in surrender charge and market value adjustment revenues from pension products, primarily due to the declining interest rate environment; a decrease in recognition of front end fee revenues due to changes in assumptions consistent with unlocking of deferred policy acquisition costs during 2001; and a decrease in fee revenues due to generally poor performance in the equity markets, resulting in a lower asset base in 2001. A decrease of $7.6 million resulted from intra segment eliminations. In addition, a $7.4 million decrease reflected lower commission fee revenues primarily from sales of variable products and third party mutual funds and lower mutual fund fee revenues from a decrease in mutual fund assets under management. The decreases were partially offset by an increase of $27.8 million from Principal Capital Management due to commercial mortgage backed securitizations. Net investment income increased $96.7 million, or 4%, to $2,400.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $2,303.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The increase reflects a $1,423.2 million, or 4%, increase in average invested assets and cash for the segment. The yield on average invested assets and cash was 7.3% for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000. 63 Benefits, claims and settlement expenses, including dividends to policyholders, increased $274.6 million, or 12%, to $2,589.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $2,315.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. An increase of $272.4 million in our pension full service payout business reflected the increase in reserves resulting from an increase in sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies. An additional $67.1 million increase from our pension investment only business related to an increase in interest credited due to growth in our investment only business. Partially offsetting the increases was a $74.6 million decrease in our pension full service accumulation business reflecting a decrease in interest credited, primarily a result of a declining interest rate environment. Operating expenses increased $33.0 million, or 4%, to $773.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $740.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. An increase of $36.8 million from Principal Bank resulted primarily from growth in bank operations. Additionally, an increase of $30.2 million from Principal Capital Management resulted primarily from an increase in compensation and recruiting costs due to growth in operations, an increase in depreciation expense of capitalized system implementation costs, and an increase in securitization expenses due to an increase in the number of securitization transactions closed in 2001. The increases were partially offset by an $18.8 million decrease from our pension business due to a decrease in the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs from unlocking to reflect changes in assumptions for equity market performance. The pension expense decrease was partially offset by increases in expenses for sales and marketing initiatives; write off of the remaining goodwill for Trustar, our pension administration only subsidiary; general growth in operations and amortization of software costs. The increase in segment operating expenses was also partially offset by a $7.6 million decrease from intra segment eliminations. Also offsetting the increases was a $4.4 million decrease from our individual annuity business reflecting decreases in non deferrable expenses and amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs. The amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs was lower in 2001 as the impact of unlocking the amortization for actual experience was less in 2001 than in 2000. Income taxes decreased $38.7 million, or 32%, to $82.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $121.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The effective income tax rate for this segment was 19% for the year ended December 31, 2001, and 25% for the year ended December 31, 2000. The effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, were lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35%, as a result of income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received, for which an estimated benefit recognition rate increased during 2001 compared to 2000, and other tax exempt income. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings decreased $2.8 million, or 1%, to $353.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $356.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Net realized capital losses, as adjusted, increased $128.8 million to $164.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $35.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The increase includes realized capital losses of $62.3 million related to sales and impairments of our investment in Enron and related entities. These entities are in the process of bankruptcy proceedings. Other permanent impairments of certain fixed maturity securities were $92.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2001. The increase also reflects the current period impact of SFAS 133 for derivatives and fewer real estate sales in the year ended December 31, 2001, compared to the year ended December 31, 2000. The increases were partially offset by the positive effects of a change in the mortgage loan valuation allowance, primarily reflecting the decrease in the amount invested in commercial mortgage loans. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of non recurring items for the year ended December 31, 2001, net income decreased $142.4 million, or 44%, to $178.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $320.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Non recurring items for the year ended December 31, 2001, had a negative impact on net income of $10.8 million, net of tax, due to the cumulative effect of accounting change, net of income taxes, related to our implementation of SFAS 133. Year Ended December 31, 2000 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 1999 Premiums and other considerations decreased $41.3 million, or 7%, to $525.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $566.7 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. The decrease was primarily due to a $43.3 million decrease in premiums from single premium group annuities with life contingencies, which are typically used to fund defined benefit pension plan terminations. The premium income we receive from these contracts fluctuates due to the variability in the number and size of pension plan terminations in the market and our ability to attract new sales. This decrease was partially offset by a $2.0 million increase related to increased sales of our single premium individual annuities with life contingencies. 64 Fees and other revenues increased $88.4 million, or 14%, to $704.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $616.2 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. The increase was primarily related to a $74.2 million increase in administrative fee revenues for pension products and services. The increase in administrative fee revenues reflected an increase in the amortization of front end fee revenues, a result of a change in our assumptions related to amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs attributable to pension products. We also received higher fee revenues from surrender charges and pension customer directed investment transfers, reflecting the higher interest rate environment and increased customer account activity. The increase in fee revenues was also due in part to growth in assets under management related to our pension products in 1999. An increase of $13.0 million was primarily due to investment management fee revenues from our mutual fund business and commission fee revenues related to sales of third party mutual funds. An increase of $5.6 million in individual annuity fees, primarily a result of growth in separate account assets related to individual annuity products, also contributed to the segment increase. The increase in fees and other revenues was partially offset by a $5.6 million decrease in fee revenues related to Principal Capital Management, primarily a result of a decrease in proceeds related to commercial mortgage backed securitization transactions. Net investment income increased $14.2 million, or 1%, to $2,303.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $2,289.7 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. The increase was primarily due to a $1,561.6 million, or 5%, increase in average invested assets and cash for the segment. The yield on average invested assets and cash was 7.3% for the year ended December 31, 2000, compared to 7.6% for the year ended December 31, 1999, due to a decrease in interest credited on assets backing allocated capital. The decrease in interest credited was partially offset by higher interest rates on fixed income investments backing product liabilities. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses, including dividends to policyholders, decreased $29.1 million, or 1%, to $2,315.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $2,344.3 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. A decrease of $26.7 million in benefits and reserve changes, and a $4.5 million decrease in dividends to policyholders were both related to our full service pension accumulation products, reflecting the decrease in our block of pension experience rated business and an increase in our guaranteed business. An additional $21.4 million decrease was attributable to decreased sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies. Partially offsetting these decreases was a $19.5 million increase related to our investment only business, primarily reflecting an increase in interest credited due to the growth in our investment only business. An additional $3.8 million increase was primarily related to an increase in interest credited on individual fixed annuities and the fixed component of variable annuities, a result of higher interest crediting rates during 2000. Operating expenses increased $114.6 million, or 18%, to $740.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $626.3 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. An increase of $57.3 million was primarily due to a change in our assumptions related to amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs attributable to pension products. An additional $28.7 million increase was primarily related to an increase in pension salary and incentive compensation costs and other pension administrative costs. Operating expenses also increased $9.7 million for our mutual fund business, primarily the result of increased sales of third party mutual funds and also due to other mutual fund operating expenses. An $8.3 million increase in operating expenses related to our individual annuity business was primarily due to an increase in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs. Additionally, a $6.5 million increase in operating expenses for Principal Capital Management was primarily related to an increase in incentive compensation costs. Income taxes decreased $24.2 million, or 17%, to $121.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $145.4 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. The effective income tax rate for this segment was 25% for the year ended December 31, 2000, and 29% for the year ended December 31, 1999. The effective income tax rates were lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35%, primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received and other tax exempt income. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings were $356.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999. Net realized capital losses, as adjusted, increased to $35.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $35.4 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. This segment recognized net realized capital losses consistent with our change in investment philosophy, which increased portfolio activity. We repositioned the investment portfolio to maximize operating investment returns by selling lower yielding fixed income securities to allow for reinvestment in higher yielding fixed income securities. This repositioning of the portfolio generated net realized capital losses. 65 As a result of the foregoing factors, net income decreased to $320.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $321.2 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. International Asset Management and Accumulation Segment The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the International Asset Management and Accumulation segment for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Operating Earnings Data: Operating revenues(1): Premiums and other considerations.................. $ 344.9 $ 220.5 $ 179.9 Fees and other revenues............................ 260.1 305.2 105.6 Net investment income.............................. 129.0 105.0 94.1 Total operating revenues........................ 734.0 630.7 379.6 Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses........... 407.5 262.2 210.1 Operating expenses................................. 342.4 372.3 212.1 Total expenses.................................. 749.9 634.5 422.2 Pre tax operating loss............................... (15.9) (3.8) (42.6) Income taxes (benefits).............................. (7.0) 4.7 (4.2) Operating loss....................................... (8.9) (8.5) (38.4) Net realized capital gains (losses), as adjusted..... (29.2) 1.4 7.7 Non recurring items.................................. U.S. GAAP Reported: Net loss............................................. $ (38.1) $ (7.1) $ (30.7) Other Data: Operating earnings (loss): Principal International.......................... $ 5.9 $ (14.8) $ (33.6) BT Financial Group............................... (14.8) 6.3 (4.8) Operating earnings (loss) before amortization of goodwill and other intangibles: Principal International.......................... $ 14.3 $ (3.9) $ (31.3) BT Financial Group............................... 11.9 32.4 6.7 (1) Excludes net realized capital gains (losses) and their impact on recognition of front end fee revenues and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues. Year Ended December 31, 2001 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2000 Premiums and other considerations increased $124.4 million, or 56%, to $344.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $220.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. An increase of $166.4 million in Mexico was the result of increased sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies, primarily resulting from the sale of a large group annuity contract. The increase was partially offset by the loss of $36.4 million of premiums and other considerations due to the February 2001 divestiture of our operations in Spain. Fees and other revenues decreased $45.1 million, or 15%, to $260.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $305.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. A decrease of $61.7 million of fee revenues contributed by BT Financial Group resulted from declining assets under management for the year ended December 31, 2001, the weakening of the Australian dollar versus the U.S. dollar and divestiture of non core businesses in 2001. The decrease was 66 partially offset by a $16.6 million increase in Principal International fee revenues, primarily a result of an increase in the number of retirement plan participants in Mexico and deposits growth in Hong Kong resulting from sales to plans established under the new Mandatory Provident Fund that started in December 2000. Net investment income increased $24.0 million, or 23%, to $129.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $105.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. An increase of $36.1 million from Principal International related to a 21% increase in average invested assets and cash and an increase in investment yields. The yield on average invested assets and cash was 9.6% for the year ended December 31, 2001, compared to 8.0% for the year ended December 31, 2000. The increase in investment yields was partially due to the impact of inflation on nominal yields in Chile, which was offset by a corresponding increase in reserve changes. The increase in net investment income was partially offset by the $8.7 million loss of net investment income resulting from the divestiture of our operations in Spain and a $2.7 million decrease related to BT Financial Group. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $145.3 million, or 55%, to $407.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $262.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. An increase in reserve changes and policy and contract benefit payments of $171.6 million in Mexico was primarily the result of the sale of a large group annuity contract with life contingencies. An increase of $15.1 million in Chile primarily related to an increase in reserve changes to reflect the impact of inflation adjustments. The increases were partially offset by the loss of $43.8 million of benefits, claims and settlement expenses resulting from the divestiture of our operations in Spain. Operating expenses decreased $29.9 million, or 8%, to $342.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $372.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Operating expenses incurred by BT Financial Group decreased $26.6 million, primarily resulting from the weakening of the Australian dollar versus the U.S. dollar. In addition, staff restructuring efforts undertaken to reduce ongoing operating expenses resulted in a 37% decrease of staff levels and a resulting decrease in salary and incentive costs. The decreases were partially offset by an increase in costs associated with the restructuring efforts and an increase in amortization of goodwill and other intangibles. Income tax expense (benefits) decreased $11.7 million to a $7.0 million income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $4.7 million of income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2000. A $16.7 million decrease was primarily due to a decrease in pre tax operating earnings from BT Financial Group. The decrease was offset by a $5.0 million increase primarily due to an increase in pre tax operating earnings from Principal International. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating loss increased $0.4 million, or 5%, to $8.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $8.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Net realized capital gains (losses), as adjusted, decreased $30.6 million to $29.2 million of net realized capital losses for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $1.4 million of net realized capital gains for the year ended December 31, 2000. The decrease was primarily due to a $21.0 million after tax net realized capital loss on the February 2001 sale of our operations in Spain. In addition, a $13.9 million decrease related to losses resulting from the permanent impairment of certain fixed maturity securities in Argentina. As a result of the foregoing factors, net loss increased $31.0 million to $38.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $7.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Year Ended December 31, 2000 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 1999 Premiums and other considerations increased $40.6 million, or 23%, to $220.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $179.9 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. Increases of $16.9 million in Mexico, $16.7 million in Argentina and $5.9 million in Chile were primarily a result of increased sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies. The increased sales in Mexico were primarily a result of sales by Principal Pensiones, S.A. de C.V., an annuity company we established in July 1999. The increased sales in Argentina primarily resulted from sales by an annuity company we established in August 1999. Fees and other revenues increased $199.6 million to $305.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $105.6 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. The increase was primarily related to a $180.2 million increase resulting from the contribution of fee revenues by BT Financial Group, which we acquired in August 1999. In addition, an $8.1 million increase was primarily due to lower fees and other revenues recognized for the year ended December 31, 1999, related to El Roble in Chile. An additional $6.5 million increase was primarily attributable to higher fee revenues from administering retirement funds in 67 Mexico, due to the implementation of a more attractive pricing structure for our customers, which also resulted in increased retention of existing accounts and an increased number of covered lives. Net investment income increased $10.9 million, or 12%, to $105.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $94.1 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. An $11.3 million increase was primarily attributable to an increase in average invested assets in Principal International. In addition, an $11.2 million increase resulted from our equity method investment gains related to our pro rata share of net income, excluding the effect of goodwill amortization, of BrasilPrev Previdencia Privada S.A., a pension company in Brazil in which we acquired a minority interest in October 1999. The increases were partially offset by an $8.7 million decrease related to the inclusion of BT Financial Group, primarily related to its margin lending business. The margin lending business was securitized in late 1999, which resulted in a shift of income generation from net investment income to fee revenues in 2000. The increases were also partially offset by a $3.1 million equity method investment loss related to our pro rata share of net loss of ING/Principal Pensions Co., Ltd., a pension company in Japan in which we acquired a minority interest in January 2000. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $52.1 million, or 25%, to $262.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $210.1 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. The increase was primarily due to an increase in reserve changes and policy and contract benefit payments of $18.5 million in Mexico and $18.4 million in Argentina, the result of increased sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies. In addition, a $13.4 million increase in reserve changes and policy and contract benefit payments in Chile primarily resulted from the increased sales of annuity products and the implementation of a new reserve calculation method to refine reserve calculations. Operating expenses increased $160.2 million, or 76%, to $372.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $212.1 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. The increase was primarily due to a $151.1 million increase resulting from the inclusion of operating expenses incurred by BT Financial Group, including a $23.3 million increase in amortization of goodwill and other intangibles. The increase also included $6.0 million of amortization of goodwill and present value of future profits related to BrasilPrev, which we acquired in October 1999. Income tax expense (benefits) increased $8.9 million to $4.7 million of income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2000, from a $4.2 million income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 1999. The increase was primarily due to $9.1 million of income tax expense related to an increase in pre tax operating earnings from BT Financial Group. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating loss decreased $29.9 million, or 78%, to $8.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $38.4 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. Net realized capital gains, as adjusted, decreased $6.3 million, or 82%, to $1.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $7.7 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. The decrease was primarily due to a $4.7 million decrease in net realized capital gains in Principal International, resulting from repositioning of investment portfolios to better match long term liabilities and assets for the year ended December 31, 1999. In addition, net realized capital gains, as adjusted, in 1999 included a $1.7 million gain on the sale of minority interest in a capital management company, which was sold following the acquisition of BT Financial Group. As a result of the foregoing factors, net loss decreased $23.6 million, or 77%, to $7.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $30.7 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. Life and Health Insurance Segment The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the Life and Health Insurance segment for the years indicated: 68 For the year ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Operating Earnings Data: Operating Revenues(1): Premiums and other considerations........... $3,011.1 $3,250.5 $3,190.6 Fees and other revenues..................... 256.7 230.0 180.2 Net investment income....................... 678.6 642.1 614.7 Total operating revenues.................. 3,946.4 4,122.6 3,985.5 Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses.... 2,491.0 2,659.4 2,714.9 Dividends to policyholders.................. 307.0 308.1 295.6 Operating expenses.......................... 842.7 913.6 872.0 Total expenses............................ 3,640.7 3,881.1 3,882.5 Pre tax operating earnings.................... 305.7 241.5 103.0 Income taxes.................................. 104.5 79.2 12.3 Operating earnings............................ 201.2 162.3 90.7 Net realized capital gains (losses), as adjusted................................. (33.8) 47.3 10.1 Non recurring items........................... 0.1 U.S. GAAP Reported: Net income.................................... $ 167.5 $ 209.6 $ 100.8 (1) Excludes net realized capital gains (losses) and their impact on recognition of front end fee revenues and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues. Year Ended December 31, 2001 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2000 Premiums and other considerations decreased $239.4 million, or 7%, to $3,011.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $3,250.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Group Medicare supplement insurance premiums decreased $98.4 million, resulting from our decision to reinsure 100% of this business effective July 1, 2000. Group medical premium rate increases in 2000 led to increased lapses and lower sales, which resulted in a $95.0 million decrease in premiums. Group life insurance premiums decreased $55.8 million, primarily due to the loss of two large customers and, to a lesser extent, a result of declines in sales during 2001 as we transitioned to a newly established dedicated non medical sales force. Group life sales also decreased as a result of pricing actions on our group medical business, as these products are often sold together. Increases in group dental premiums of $11.3 million partially offset the declines in other products. The increases were primarily due to a larger membership base early in the year due to an increase in sales in 2000 and also due to increases in dental premium rates. Fees and other revenues increased $26.7 million, or 12%, to $256.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $230.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Fee revenues from our group fee for service business increased $23.6 million, primarily due to growth in that business and, to a lesser extent, increases in fee rates. Fee revenues from individual interest sensitive life insurance products increased $10.5 million, a result of continued growth in that business. The growth reflected a continued shift in customer preference from individual traditional life insurance products to individual universal life and individual variable universal life insurance products. The increases were partially offset by a $6.8 million decrease in individual traditional life insurance fee revenues, primarily related to classifying fees from reinsurance ceded for traditional life insurance as operating expenses. The fees from reinsurance were previously reported as fee revenues. Net investment income increased $36.5 million, or 6%, to $678.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $642.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The increase was primarily due to a $265.1 million, or 3%, increase in 69 average invested assets and cash for the segment. Net investment income also increased due to an increase in average investment yields for the segment. The yield on average invested assets and cash was 7.6% for the year ended December 31, 2001, compared to 7.4% for the year ended December 31, 2000. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $168.4 million, or 6%, to $2,491.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $2,659.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Group medical insurance benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $61.1 million, due to a reduction in business and to improved claim experience, partially offset by reserve releases during the year ended December 31, 2000. Group Medicare supplement insurance benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $59.3 million, resulting from our decision to reinsure 100% of this business effective July 1, 2000. Group life insurance benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $48.0 million due to the loss of two large customers and an overall decline in business. Individual disability benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $29.8 million, primarily a result of claim reserve strengthening during 2000. Dividends to policyholders decreased $1.1 million to $307.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $308.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The decrease was primarily a result of a change in methodology of estimating dividends. Additionally, the dividends in the Closed Block were reduced due to accumulated experience losses. Operating expenses decreased $70.9 million, or 8%, to $842.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $913.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Group life and health insurance operating expenses decreased $57.5 million, primarily due to our decision to reinsure 100% of our group Medicare supplement insurance business effective July 1, 2000, and due to expense management in response to an overall decline in group life and health insurance business. Individual life and disability insurance operating expenses decreased $13.4 million primarily due to a decrease in commission expense resulting from classifying fees from reinsurance ceded for traditional life insurance as operating expenses. The fees from reinsurance were previously reported as fee revenues. Operating expenses also decreased due to unlocking of individual disability insurance deferred policy acquisition costs in 2000, a result of changes in profitability assumptions. The decreases were partially offset by lower capitalization of deferred policy acquisition costs related to lower sales of individual life insurance. Income taxes increased $25.3 million, or 32%, to $104.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $79.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The effective income tax rate for the segment was 34% for the year ended December 31, 2001, and 33% for the year ended December 31, 2000. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2001, was lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35% primarily due to tax exempt income. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2000, was lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35%, primarily due to tax exempt income and a reduction in a tax reserve as a result of a favorable IRS audit event. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings increased $38.9 million, or 24%, to $201.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $162.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Net realized capital gains (losses), as adjusted, decreased $81.1 million to $33.8 million of net realized capital losses for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $47.3 million of net realized capital gains for the year ended December 31, 2000. The decrease primarily related to the sale of our investment in United Payors and United Providers. In 2000, we sold our remaining investment and realized an after tax capital gain of $58.9 million. To a lesser extent, the decrease was due to an increase in losses from permanent impairments of fixed maturity securities during 2001, including $16.6 million of net realized capital losses related to our investment in Enron and related entities. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of non recurring items for the year ended December 31, 2001, net income decreased $42.1 million, or 20%, to $167.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $209.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Non recurring items for the year ended December 31, 2001, had a positive impact on net income of $0.1 million, net of tax, due to the cumulative effect of accounting change, net of income taxes, related to our implementation of SFAS 133. Year Ended December 31, 2000 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 1999 Premiums and other considerations increased $59.9 million, or 2%, to $3,250.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $3,190.6 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. Group dental insurance premiums increased $72.3 million, primarily resulting from increased sales of group dental insurance products. Group medical premiums increased $38.3 million, primarily related to an increase in the premium base due to increased sales in late 1999, and 70 significant group medical premium rate increases. Also contributing to the increase was a $9.6 million increase in individual disability insurance premiums due to continued growth in sales. Group disability insurance premiums increased $8.4 million due to an increase in long term disability covered members and an increase in short term disability premium per member. These increases were partially offset by a $66.2 million decrease in group Medicare supplement premium, resulting from our decision to cease new sales of group Medicare supplement insurance in January 2000 and our decision to reinsure 100% of this business effective July 1, 2000. Fees and other revenues increased $49.8 million, or 28%, to $230.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $180.2 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. Fee revenues from individual interest sensitive life insurance products increased $27.4 million, a result of growth in that block of business. The growth reflects a continued shift in customer preference from individual traditional life insurance products to individual universal life and individual variable life insurance products. Fee revenues from our group fee for service business increased $20.3 million, primarily due to increases in members and fees. Net investment income increased $27.4 million, or 4%, to $642.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $614.7 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. The increase was primarily due to a $483.9 million, or 6%, increase in average invested assets and cash for the segment. The increase in net investment income due to asset growth was partially offset by a decrease in average investment yields for the segment. The yield on average invested assets and cash was 7.4% for the year ended December 31, 2000, compared to 7.5% for the year ended December 31, 1999, due to a decrease in interest credited on assets backing allocated capital. The decrease in interest credited was partially offset by higher interest rates on fixed income investments backing product liabilities. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $55.5 million, or 2%, to $2,659.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $2,714.9 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. Group medical insurance benefits claims and settlement expenses decreased $108.6 million, primarily resulting from the release of claim reserves established in 1999. The claim reserves were established in 1999 as a result of poor claim experience during the year and an expectation that claims would continue to increase through the second quarter of 2000. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in claims due to rising medical costs. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses also decreased $102.8 million for group Medicare supplement insurance, as a result of our reinsuring this business effective July 1, 2000, improved claim experience during the first half of the year and the release of reserves established in 1999, for the same reasons previously described for our group medical business. These decreases were partially offset by a $56.1 million increase in group dental benefits, claims and settlement expenses, primarily due to growth in that block of business. Individual disability insurance claims and reserves increased $49.5 million, primarily due to less favorable morbidity experience and related increases in reserves for claims and incurred but not reported claims. Individual interest sensitive life insurance benefits and claims increased $40.2 million, primarily due to an increase in both interest credited and mortality costs, primarily resulting from growth in the block of business and reserve adjustments. Group disability claims and reserves increased $9.5 million, primarily a result of less favorable morbidity experience and an increase in covered members. Dividends to policyholders increased $12.5 million, or 4%, to $308.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $295.6 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. The increase was due to increased dividends on traditional individual life insurance products, a result of a maturing in force block. Operating expenses increased $41.6 million, or 5%, to $913.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $872.0 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. Group life and health insurance operating expenses increased $26.0 million, primarily due to expenses related to our group Medicare supplement business, and a write down of goodwill related to group Medicare supplement insurance. Group life and health insurance operating expenses also increased due to an increase in commissions, resulting from higher commission scales, an increase in premium, and settlements with wholesale distributors related to discontinued group health business. These increases were offset by a decrease in general expenses related to both our group medical and group Medicare supplement insurance products. Individual life and disability insurance operating expenses also increased $15.6 million, primarily due to an increase in amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs related to individual disability insurance. Income taxes increased $66.9 million to $79.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $12.3 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. The effective income tax rate for this segment was 33% for the year ended December 31, 2000 and 12% for the year ended December 31, 1999. The effective income tax rate for 2000 was lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35% due to tax exempt income. The effective income tax rate for 1999 was lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35%, primarily resulting from overestimated deferred taxes related to health insurance reserves in 1998, the effects of which were reversed in 1999 and also due to tax exempt income. 71 As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings increased $71.6 million, or 79%, to $162.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $90.7 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. Net realized capital gains, as adjusted, increased $37.2 million to $47.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $10.1 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. The increase was primarily due to net realized capital gains, as adjusted, related to the sale of our investment in United Payors and United Providers. We sold a portion of our investment in 1999, realizing an after tax capital gain of $17.9 million. In 2000, we sold our remaining investment and realized an after tax capital gain of $58.9 million. The increase in capital gains was partially offset by a $2.3 million increase in net realized capital losses on sales of fixed income securities, as a result of our investment portfolio repositioning strategy to sell lower yielding fixed income securities to allow for reinvestment in higher yielding fixed income securities. As a result of the foregoing factors, net income increased $108.8 million, or 108%, to $209.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $100.8 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. Mortgage Banking Segment The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the Mortgage Banking segment for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Operating Earnings Data: Operating Revenues(1): Loan servicing......................... $ 403.0 $ 313.8 $ 286.5 Loan production........................ 354.4 46.0 111.8 Total operating revenues............ 757.4 359.8 398.3 Expenses: Loan servicing......................... 407.3 215.3 241.3 Loan production........................ 145.0 67.4 69.5 Total expenses...................... 552.3 282.7 310.8 Pre tax operating earnings............... 205.1 77.1 87.5 Income taxes............................. 78.4 27.1 30.7 Operating earnings....................... 126.7 50.0 56.8 Net realized capital gains (losses), as adjusted.............................. Non recurring items...................... U.S. GAAP Reported: Net income............................... $ 126.7 $ 50.0 $ 56.8 (1) Excludes net realized capital gains (losses) and their impact on recognition of front end fee revenues and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues. Year Ended December 31, 2001 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2000 Total operating revenues increased $397.6 million to $757.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $359.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. A $308.4 million increase in mortgage loan production revenues reflects the increase in mortgage loan production volume during the year ended December 31, 2001. In addition, an increase of $89.2 million in mortgage loan servicing revenues reflects the growth in the mortgage loan servicing portfolio. The decline in interest rates in 2001 resulted in mortgage loan production of $37.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2001, compared to $8.3 billion for the same period a year ago. The average balance of the servicing portfolio was $65.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2001, compared to $52.6 billion for the same period a year ago. 72 Total expenses increased $269.6 million, or 95%, to $552.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $282.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. A $192.0 million increase in mortgage loan servicing expenses was primarily a result of an impairment of capitalized mortgage loan servicing rights and, to a lesser extent, due to growth in the mortgage loan servicing portfolio. The impairment was partially offset by an increase in net gains on servicing hedge activity recognized in the year ended December 31, 2001, compared to the year ended December 31, 2000. Mortgage loan production expenses increased $77.6 million, reflecting the increase in mortgage loan production volume. Income taxes increased $51.3 million to $78.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $27.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The effective income tax rate for this segment was 38% for the year ended December 31, 2001, and 35% for the year ended December 31, 2000. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2001, was higher that the corporate income tax rate of 35% due to the allocation of deferred state taxes, relating to both current and prior years, recorded in 2001. This allocation will increase the effective income tax rate for this segment to 37% for future reporting periods. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings and net income increased $76.7 million to $126.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $50.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Year Ended December 31, 2000 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 1999 Total operating revenues decreased $38.5 million, or 10%, to $359.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $398.3 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. The decrease was primarily due to a $65.8 million decrease in mortgage loan production revenues, reflecting the decrease in mortgage loan production volume during 2000. The decrease in total revenues was partially offset by a $27.3 million increase in mortgage loan servicing revenues, primarily due to growth in the average balance of the mortgage loan servicing portfolio. Additionally, an increase in mortgage loan servicing fee revenues was the result of the sale of mortgage loan servicing rights, representing approximately $1.0 billion from the mortgage loan servicing portfolio, as part of our mortgage loan servicing strategy. Total expenses decreased $28.1 million, or 9%, to $282.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $310.8 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. The decrease was primarily due to a $26.0 million decrease in expenses related to mortgage loan servicing, primarily a result of net gains we earned on hedges related to our servicing portfolio in 2000. In the second quarter of 2000, we shifted our servicing hedge portfolio from U.S. Treasury related instruments to London Inter Bank Offer Rate based hedges including swaps and swaptions, which resulted in net gains of $10.2 million. The decrease was also due to a $2.1 million decrease in mortgage loan production expenses related to the decrease in mortgage loan production volume during 2000. Income taxes decreased $3.6 million, or 12%, to $27.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $30.7 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. The effective income tax rate for this segment was 35% for the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings and net income decreased $6.8 million, or 12%, to $50.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $56.8 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. Corporate and Other Segment The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the Corporate and Other segment for the years indicated: 73 For the year ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 (in millions) Operating Earnings Data: Operating Revenues(1): Total operating revenues...................... $ 100.8 $ 97.1 $ 61.9 Expenses: Total expenses................................ 43.3 14.4 54.1 Pre tax operating earnings......................... 57.5 82.7 7.8 Income taxes (benefits)............................ 19.4 15.0 (1.7) Operating earnings................................. 38.1 67.7 9.5 Net realized capital gains (losses), as adjusted... (93.3) 80.3 284.5 Non recurring items................................ (20.4) (101.0) U.S. GAAP Reported: Net income (loss).................................. $ (75.6) $ 47.0 $ 294.0 (1) Excludes net realized capital gains (losses) and their impact on recognition of front end fee revenues and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues. Year Ended December 31, 2001 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2000 Total operating revenues increased $3.7 million, or 4%, to $100.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $97.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Net investment income increased $14.0 million, reflecting an increase in average invested assets and cash. In addition, inter segment eliminations included in this segment resulted in a $1.7 million increase, which was offset by a corresponding change in total expenses. The increases were partially offset by an $11.2 million decrease in net investment income due to a decrease in average investment yields for the segment. Total expenses increased $28.9 million to $43.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $14.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Interest expense increased $32.3 million, primarily due to a net recovery in 2000 of previously paid interest related to a successful tax audit appeal. An increase of $6.8 million related to the write off of a non invested asset. Interest expense on short term borrowings increased $3.1 million. Inter segment eliminations included in this segment resulted in a $1.7 million increase. The increases were partially offset by a $9.3 million decrease of interest expense as a result of extinguishment of commercial real estate debt on home office properties. In addition, interest expense on private debt securities and commercial paper issued in connection with the acquisition of BT Financial Group decreased $5.9 million, a result of the impact of the weakening of the Australian dollar versus the U.S. dollar and repayment of the commercial paper. Income tax expense increased $4.4 million, or 29%, to $19.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $15.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The effective income tax rates for this segment were 34% for the year ended December 31, 2001, and 18% for the year ended December 31, 2000. The effective income tax rate for 2001 was lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35% primarily due to tax exempt income, which was partially offset by an increase in income tax reserves established for contested IRS tax audit matters. The effective income tax rate for 2000 was lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35% primarily due to tax exempt income, and, to a lesser extent, due to a decrease in income tax reserves established for contested IRS tax audit matters. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings decreased $29.6 million, or 44%, to $38.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $67.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Net realized capital gains (losses), as adjusted, decreased $173.6 million to $93.3 million of net realized capital losses for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $80.3 million of net realized capital gains for the year ended December 31, 2000. The decrease was primarily due to an increase in net realized 74 capital losses for the year ended December 31, 2001, on sales of equity securities and real estate. The decrease included $10.5 million of net realized capital losses related to our investment in Enron and related entities. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of non recurring items, net loss increased $122.6 million to a net loss of $75.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $47.0 million of net income for the year ended December 31, 2000. For the year ended December 31, 2001, net income included the effect of non recurring items totaling $20.4 million, net of tax, related to: (1) the negative effects of (a) expenses of our demutualization ($18.6 million) and (b) an increase in our loss contingency reserve for sales practices litigation ($5.9 million) and (2) the positive effect of investment income generated from the proceeds of our IPO ($4.1 million). For the year ended December 31, 2000, net income included the negative effect of non recurring items totaling $101.0 million, net of tax, related to: (1) a loss contingency reserve established for sales practices litigation ($93.8 million) and (2) expenses of our demutualization ($7.2 million). Year Ended December 31, 2000 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 1999 Total operating revenues increased $35.2 million, or 57%, to $97.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $61.9 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. Net investment income increased $71.0 million, as a result of improved investment yields for the segment. The increase was partially offset by an $11.5 million decrease in net investment income, reflecting a reduction in average invested assets, primarily due to the sale of invested assets in 1999 to partially fund the acquisition of BT Financial Group. The increase in total revenues was also partially offset by a $9.0 million decrease related to a change in inter segment eliminations included in this segment, which was offset by a corresponding change in total expenses. In addition, the increase was also partially offset by an $8.5 million decrease in fees and other revenues, primarily related to the termination of a reinsurance and participation agreement under which we continued to receive fee revenues in 1999, but not in 2000. Net investment income also decreased $5.0 million related to our pro rata share of net loss of HealthExtras, Inc., a company in which we hold a minority interest. Total expenses decreased $39.7 million, or 73%, to $14.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $54.1 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. Interest expense related to IRS tax audit matters decreased $40.8 million, primarily due to a net recovery of previously paid interest related to a successful tax audit appeal. Expenses also decreased $33.2 million due to the cessation of interim service agreements with Coventry at the end of 1999. A $9.0 million decrease in operating expenses was related to a change in inter segment eliminations included in this segment. The decreases were partially offset by $31.2 million of additional interest expense for the year ended December 31, 2000, on private debt securities and commercial paper issued in connection with the acquisition of BT Financial Group in August 1999. In addition, a $10.0 million increase was related primarily to corporate initiatives funded by this segment. Income tax expense (benefits) increased $16.7 million to $15.0 million of income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2000, from a $1.7 million income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 1999. The increase was primarily a result of an increase in pre tax operating earnings, which included tax exempt income. The effective income tax rate for this segment was lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35% for the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999 because of tax exempt income. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings increased $58.2 million to $67.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $9.5 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. Net realized capital gains, as adjusted, decreased $204.2 million, or 72%, to $80.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $284.5 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. The decrease was primarily due to decreased sales of invested assets, primarily equity securities, for the year ended December 31, 2000. We sold a significant portion of our equity securities portfolio in 1999 and 1998 to reduce our exposure to common stock and to realize appreciation. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of non recurring items for the year ended December 31, 2000, net income decreased $247.0 million, or 84%, to $47.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, from $294.0 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. For the year ended December 31, 2000, net income included the negative effect of non recurring items totaling $101.0 million, net of tax, related to: (1) a loss contingency reserve established for sales practices litigation ($93.8 million) and (2) expenses of our demutualization ($7.2 million). 75 Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity describes the ability of a company to generate sufficient cash flows to meet the cash requirements of business operations. The primary source of our liquidity is dividends we receive from Principal Life. We could also receive dividends from our other subsidiaries, including Princor Financial Services Corporation, Principal Financial Services (Australia) Inc., Principal International de Chile, S.A. and PFG do Brasil Ltda; however, given the historical cash flows of the operations and financial results of these subsidiaries, it is unlikely we may rely upon them for significant cash flow in the next year. The payment of dividends by Principal Life to us is limited by Iowa laws. Under Iowa laws, Principal Life may pay dividends only from the earned surplus arising from its business and must receive the prior approval of the Insurance Commissioner of the State of Iowa ("the Commissioner") to pay a stockholder dividend if such a stockholder dividend would exceed certain statutory limitations. The current statutory limitation is the greater of: o 10% of Principal Lifes policyholder surplus as of the previous year end; or o the net gain from operations from the previous calendar year. Iowa law gives the Commissioner discretion to disapprove requests for dividends in excess of these limits. Based on this limitation and 2001 statutory results, Principal Life could pay approximately $640.3 million in stockholder dividends in 2002 without exceeding the statutory limitation. Principal Life was able to pay approximately $760.9 million in statutory dividends in 2001 based on its 2000 statutory financial results without being subject to the restrictions on payment of extraordinary stockholder dividends. Total stockholder dividends paid by Principal Life to its parent company in 2001 and 2000 were $734.7 million and $538.8 million, respectively. On February 26, 2002, Principal Life declared an ordinary dividend of $390.0 million payable to its parent on or about April 5, 2002. Another source of liquidity is issuance of our common stock. In 2001, net proceeds from our IPO totaled $1,753.9 million, of which we retained $64.2 million for working capital, payment of dividends, and other general corporate purposes. The remaining $1,689.7 million was contributed to Principal Life Insurance Company principally to fund demutualization compensation to policyholders in the form of policy credits and cash, and to cover certain expenses related to our demutualization. In addition, net proceeds from the issuance of additional shares for the exercise of the over allotment options granted to the underwriters in the IPO, totaled $265.4 million, all of which we retained for repurchase of shares issued in the exercise of the over allotment options. The repurchase of these shares was approved by the board of directors. Through December 31, 2001, we purchased the full amount of shares approved by the board. In addition to the sources of cash flows previously mentioned, we have various sources of short term funding, consisting primarily of commercial paper and outstanding balances on revolving credit facilities with various financial institutions. As of December 31, 2001, we have credit facilities with various financial institutions in an aggregate amount of $1.4 billion. Committed lines of credit totaling $600.0 million, of which there were no outstanding balances as of December 31, 2001, also support cash flow requirements. These lines of credit are available to provide backup of the commercial paper programs. In addition, we have $780.0 million in credit facilities to finance a commercial mortgage backed securities pipeline ("CMBS") and $45.0 million of unused lines of credit for short term debt used for general corporate purposes. Our primary uses of liquidity could include payment of dividends on our common stock, interest payments and any other payments related to debt servicing, payment of benefits, claims and settlement expenses and dividends to policyholders, payment of general operating expenses, contributions to subsidiaries, acquisitions and the repurchase of our common stock. Any such repurchases would occur after due consideration and approval by our board of directors. On February 26, 2002, the companys board of directors authorized the repurchase of up to $450.0 million of the companys common stock. The repurchases will be made in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions from time to time, depending upon market conditions. Our fundamental business approach is to avoid guarantees or other commitments to or on behalf of affiliated companies of Principal Financial Group, Inc. Affiliates are encouraged to operate as autonomously as possible; however, there are instances where a rated entity within Principal Financial Group, Inc. provides a guarantee to or on behalf of an affiliate. The guarantees typically supplement a partially secured transaction, but require the additional enhancement provided by the guarantee to make the transaction more economical for our organization. 76 Various businesses throughout our organization have a range of standard guarantees and commitments to or on behalf of affiliated entities within the organization in connection with managing the risks of these businesses. We continually manage liabilities that have any acceleration, additional collateral support, changes in terms, or creation of additional financial obligations in our regular liquidity analysis. We have found all of these obligations to be manageable and do not believe they materially impact our liquidity or capital resources. Sources and Uses of Cash of Consolidated Operations Net cash provided by operating activities was $3,944.8 million and $2,637.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The increase in net cash provided was due, in part, to: (1) a decrease in cash paid for operating expenses due to improved expense management and a decrease in commissions, a result of our decision to reinsure 100% of our group Medicare supplement insurance business effective July 1, 2000; (2) a decrease in cash paid for income taxes due to the change in pre tax operating earnings; and (3) a decrease in cash paid for benefits, claims, and settlement expenses. The following also contributed to the increase: (1) an increase in fees and other revenues, reflecting the increase in mortgage loan production volume; (2) an increase in net investment income due to an increase in average invested assets and cash as well as investment yields; and (3) an increase in premiums and other considerations received primarily due to an increase in premiums from single premium group annuities with life contingencies. Continuation of the low interest rate environment and poor performance in the equity markets, could reduce customer demand for pension, individual annuity, variable investment or mutual fund products, resulting in reduced cash flows from our subsidiaries operations. However, should interest rates rise, we may experience a decrease in cash flows from residential mortgage loan production. Net cash used in investing activities was $3,698.4 million and $1,273.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The decrease in cash from investing activities was primarily due to a significant increase during 2001 in the volume of net mortgage loans purchased and sold. Also contributing to the decrease in cash was an increase in net mortgage loan servicing rights purchased, also a result of increased mortgage loan production volume in 2001 and an increase in net cash invested in available for sale securities during 2001 compared to 2000. Net cash used in financing activities was $549.2 million and $1,006.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The decrease in net cash used in financing activities was primarily due to the receipt of net proceeds from issuance of common stock in conjunction with our IPO and exercise of the underwriters over allotment options, and, to a lesser extent, due to net proceeds received from short term borrowings. Partially offsetting the decreases, were payments made to eligible policyholders as part of our demutualization, the repurchase of shares of our common stock as approved by our board of directors, and, to a lesser extent, the repayment of long term debt in 2001 compared to the issuance of long term debt in 2000. Given the historical cash flow of our subsidiaries and the financial results of these subsidiaries, we believe the cash flow from our consolidated operating activities over the next year will provide sufficient liquidity for our operations, as well as satisfy interest payments and any payments related to debt servicing. Principal Life Historically, the principal cash flow sources for Principal Life have been premiums from life and health insurance products, pension and annuity deposits, asset management fee revenues, administrative services fee revenues, income from investments, proceeds from the sales or maturity of investments, long term debt and short term borrowings. Cash outflows consist primarily of payment of benefits to policyholders and beneficiaries, income and other taxes, current operating expenses, payment of dividends to policyholders, payments in connection with investments acquired, payments made to acquire subsidiaries, payment of dividends to parent, and payments relating to policy and contract surrenders, withdrawals, policy loans, interest expense and repayment of short term borrowings and long term debt. Principal Life maintains investment strategies generally intended to provide adequate funds to pay benefits without forced sales of investments. Products having liabilities with longer lives, such as life insurance and full service payout pension products, are matched with assets having similar estimated lives such as mortgage loans, long term bonds and private placement bonds. Shorter term liabilities are matched with investments such as short and medium term fixed maturities. In addition, highly liquid, high quality short term U.S. Treasury securities and other liquid investment grade fixed maturities are held to fund anticipated operating expenses, surrenders, withdrawals and development and maintenance expenses associated with new 77 products and technologies. See Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rate Risk" for a discussion of duration matching. Our privately placed fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage loans and real estate investments are generally less liquid than our publicly traded fixed maturity securities. As of December 31, 2001 and 2000, these asset classes represented approximately 49% and 57%, respectively, of the value of our consolidated invested assets. Life insurance companies generally produce a positive cash flow from operations, as measured by the amount by which cash inflows are adequate to meet benefit obligations to policyholders and normal operating expenses as they are incurred. The remaining cash flow is generally used to increase the asset base to provide funds to meet the need for future policy benefit payments and for writing and acquiring new business. It is important to match the investment portfolio maturities to the cash flow demands of the type of annuity, investment or insurance product being provided. Principal Life continuously monitors benefits, surrenders and maturities to provide projections of future cash requirements. As part of this monitoring process, Principal Life performs cash flow testing of many of its assets and liabilities under various scenarios to evaluate the adequacy of reserves. In developing its investment strategy, Principal Life establishes a level of cash and securities which, combined with expected net cash inflows from operations, maturities of fixed maturity investments and principal payments on mortgage backed securities and commercial mortgage loans, are believed adequate to meet anticipated short term and long term benefit and expense payment obligations. There can be no assurance that future experience regarding benefits and surrenders will be similar to historic experience since withdrawal and surrender levels are influenced by such factors as the interest rate environment and the claims paying ability and financial strength ratings of Principal Life. Principal Life takes into account asset liability management considerations in the product development and design process. Contract terms of 96% and 97% of Principal Lifes interest sensitive products as of December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively, include surrender and withdrawal provisions which mitigate the risk of losses due to early withdrawals. These provisions generally do one or more of the following: limit the amount of penalty free withdrawals; limit the circumstances under which withdrawals are permitted; or assess a surrender charge or market value adjustment relating to the underlying assets. The market value adjustment feature in Principal Lifes fixed annuity products adjusts the surrender value of a contract in the event of surrender prior to the end of the contract period to protect Principal Life against losses due to higher interest rates at the time of surrender. Our guaranteed investment contracts and funding agreements contain provisions limiting early surrenders, including penalties for early surrenders and minimum notice requirements. Put provisions give customers the option to terminate a contract prior to maturity, provided they give a minimum notice period. The following table presents U.S. GAAP reserves for guaranteed investment contracts and funding agreements by withdrawal provisions as of December 31, 2001 and 2000: 78 As of December 31, 2001 2000 (in millions) Book Value Out(1) Puttable: Less than 30 days put...................... $ $ 30 to 89 days put.......................... 100.6 90 to 180 days put......................... 379.9 More than 180 days put..................... 55.1 150.9 No active put provision(2).................. Total puttable........................... 55.1 631.4 Surrenderable: Book value out without surrender charge..... 22.9 45.2 Book value out with surrender charge........ 396.3 128.0 Total surrenderable...................... 419.2 173.2 Total book value out................. 474.3 804.6 Market Value Out(3) Less than 30 days notice..................... 26.9 42.9 30 to 89 days notice......................... 281.9 284.6 90 to 180 days notice........................ 1,133.6 992.6 More than 180 days notice.................... 4,795.6 5,004.4 No active surrender provision................. 238.5 297.9 Total market value out................... 6,476.5 6,622.4 Not puttable or surrenderable................. 11,502.1 10,521.3 Total GICs and funding agreements........ $ 18,452.9 $ 17,948.3 (1) Book Value Out: The amount equal to the sum of deposits less withdrawals with interest accrued at the contractual interest rate. (2) Contracts currently in initial lock out period but which will become puttable with 90 days notice at some time in the future. (3) Market Value Out: The amount equal to the book value out plus a market value adjustment to adjust for changes in interest rates. International Operations BT Financial Group required infusions of capital of $1.7 million, $59.3 million and $1.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. The 2001 infusion was provided to further develop our operations in the UK, the 2000 infusion was to service acquisition related debt funding expenses, and the 1999 infusion represented initial capital amounts for Europe and Ireland. Primary sources of cash inflows for BT Financial Group are fee revenues and interest spread earned on margin lending operations. Cash outflows consist primarily of operating expenses. Principal International is in a development or entry stage in several countries. Historically, principal cash flow sources for Principal International have been pension and annuity deposits, asset management fee revenues, administrative services fee revenues, insurance premiums, income from investments, proceeds from the sales or maturity of investments and short term borrowings. Cash outflows consist primarily of payment of benefits to policyholders and beneficiaries, income and other taxes, current operating expenses, payments in connection with investments acquired, and payments relating to policy and contract surrenders, withdrawals, policy loans, interest expense and repayment of short term borrowings. 79 Principal International maintains investment strategies generally intended to provide adequate funds to pay benefits without forced sales of investments. Highly liquid, high quality short term government securities and other liquid investment grade fixed maturities are held to fund anticipated operating cash outflows and development and maintenance expenses associated with new products and technologies. Principal Internationals operating companies monitor benefits, surrenders and maturities to provide projections of future cash requirements. There can be no assurance that future experience regarding benefits and surrenders will be similar to historic experience since withdrawal and surrender levels are influenced by factors such as the interest rate environment and local economic conditions in each country. Our Brazilian and Chilean operations produced positive cash flow from operations in 2001 and in 2000. These cash flows have been historically maintained at the local country level for strategic expansion purposes. Our other international operations have required infusions of capital of $44.7 million, $75.8 million and $126.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively, to meet the cash outflow requirements of those operations or to fund acquisitions. These other operations are primarily in the start up stage or are expanding in the short term. Our capital funding of these operations is consistent with our long term strategy to establish viable companies that can sustain future growth from internally generated sources. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments The following tables present payments due by period for contractual obligations as of December 31, 2001 and 2000: As of December 31, 2001 Less than 1 4 5 After 5 Contractual Obligations Total year 1 3 years years years (in millions) Long term debt(1)............... $1,378.4 $ 165.1 $ 288.8 $ 5.4 $ 919.1 Operating leases(2)............. 213.8 60.3 83.6 44.5 25.4 Non recourse medium term notes(3)...................... 3,298.4 160.2 496.1 470.2 2,171.9 Total contractual cash obligations................ $4,890.6 $ 385.6 $ 868.5 $ 520.1 $3,116.4 As of December 31, 2000 Less than 1 4 5 After 5 Contractual Obligations Total year 1 3 years years years (in millions) Long term debt(1)............... $1,336.5 $ 118.9 $ 103.2 $ 205.2 $ 909.2 Operating leases(2)............. 174.5 49.1 72.8 41.6 11.0 Non recourse medium term notes(3)...................... 2,475.3 164.3 476.6 424.9 1,409.5 Total contractual cash obligations................ $3,986.3 $ 332.3 $ 652.6 $ 671.7 $2,329.7 (1) The following are included in long term debt: On August 25, 1999, Principal Financial Group (Australia) Holdings Pty Limited, our wholly owned indirect subsidiary, issued $665.0 million of unsecured redeemable long term debt ($200.0 million of 7.95% notes due August 15, 2004, and $465.0 million in 8.2% notes due August 15, 2009). Interest on the notes is payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 of each year, commencing February 15, 2000. Principal Financial Group (Australia) Holdings Pty Limited used the net proceeds from the notes to partially fund the purchase of the outstanding stock of several companies affiliated with Bankers Trust Australia Group. On December 28, 2001, all of the long term debt obligations of Principal Financial Group (Australia) Holdings Pty Limited were assumed by its parent, PFSI. 80 On March 10, 1994, Principal Life issued $300.0 million of surplus notes, including $200.0 million due March 1, 2024, at a 7.875% annual interest rate and the remaining $100.0 million due March 1, 2044, at an 8% annual interest rate. No affiliates of ours hold any portion of the notes. Each payment of interest and principal on the notes, however, may be made only with the prior approval of the Commissioner and only to the extent that Principal Life has sufficient surplus earnings to make such payments. For each of the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, interest of $23.8 million was approved by the Commissioner, paid and charged to expense. The mortgages and other notes payable are financings for real estate developments. We have obtained loans with various lenders to finance these developments. Outstanding principal balances as of December 31, 2001, range from $0.1 million to $101.9 million per development with interest rates generally ranging from 7.2% to 8.6%. Outstanding principal balances as of December 31, 2000, range from $0.5 million to $102.8 million per development with interest rates generally ranging from 6.9% to 8.6%. (2) As a lessee, we lease office space, data processing equipment, corporate aircraft and office furniture and equipment under various operating leases. (3) Non recourse medium term notes represent claims for principal and interest under international funding agreements issued to non qualified institutional investors. These international funding agreements are afforded equal priority to claims of life insurance and annuity policyholders under insolvency provisions of Iowa Insurance Laws and, accordingly, are reported as contractholder funds liabilities. The components of short term debt as of December 31, 2001 and 2000, are as follows: As of December 31, 2001 2000 (in millions) Commercial paper..................... $ 199.9 $ 29.9 Other recourse short term debt....... 22.0 16.6 Non recourse short term debt......... 289.7 413.0 Total short term debt............. $ 511.6 $ 459.5 Short term debt consists primarily of commercial paper and outstanding balances on revolving credit facilities with various financial institutions. As of December 31, 2001, we had credit facilities with various financial institutions in an aggregate amount of $1.4 billion. We may borrow up to $600.0 million on a back stop facility to support our $1.0 billion commercial paper program. In addition, as of December 31, 2001, we have $780.0 million in credit facilities to finance a CMBS pipeline and $45.0 million of unused lines of credit for short term debt used for general corporate purposes. The weighted average interest rates on short term borrowings as of December 31, 2001 and 2000, were 2.30% and 7.17%, respectively. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements We have entered into certain contracts to: 1) fund residential mortgage loan production, 2) sell qualifying delinquent residential mortgage loans, and 3) securitize margin loans. As appropriate under U.S. GAAP, the contracts involve special purpose entities ("SPEs") or trusts that are not reported on our consolidated statement of financial position. Residential Mortgage Loan Production. In June 2000, our mortgage banking segment created a special purpose bankruptcy remote entity, Principal Residential Mortgage Capital Resources, LLC ("PRMCR"), to provide an off balance sheet source of funding for our residential mortgage loan production. We sell eligible residential mortgage loans to PRMCR, where they are warehoused until sold to the final investor. We sold approximately $38.0 billion and $5.3 billion in mortgage loans to PRMCR in 2001 and 2000, respectively. The maximum amount of mortgage loans, which can be warehoused in PRMCR, has increased from $1.0 billion at inception to $4.0 billion as of December 31, 2001. PRMCR held $3.0 billion in mortgage loans held for sale as of December 31, 2001. The portfolio of loans 81 held for sale by PRMCR must meet portfolio criteria, eligibility representations, and portfolio aging limitations. Based on these eligibility representations, we are required to repurchase ineligible loans from PRMCR. PRMCR is capitalized by equity certificates owned by third party investors not affiliated with us or our affiliates, directors, or officers and thus, is not consolidated. The equity holders bear the risk of loss on defaulted mortgages. At December 31, 2001, PRMCR had outstanding equity certificates of $193.0 million. PRMCR also issues short term secured liquidity notes as well as medium term notes to provide funds for its purchase of mortgage loans from us. At December 31, 2001, PRMCR had outstanding secured liquidity notes of $1.3 billion, three year fixed term notes of $800.0 million and five year variable term notes of $800.0 million. All borrowings are collateralized by the assets of PRMCR. We paid a commitment fee to PRMCR based on the overall warehouse limit. PRMCR used a portion of the fee to fund a cash collateral account maintained at PRMCR. These funds are available as additional collateral to cover credit related losses on defaulted loans. The balance in the account was $24.0 million at December 31, 2001. Any remaining amounts in the cash collateral account will be returned to us upon the termination of PRMCR. This right to the return of the cash collateral amount is reflected in other assets on our consolidated statements of financial position. We maintain a right to the servicing of the mortgage loans held by PRMCR and upon the sale of the majority of the mortgage loans to the final investors. In addition, we perform certain secondary marketing, accounting and various administrative functions on behalf of PRMCR. As servicer, we receive a monthly servicing fee, and may receive an excess servicing fee if funds are available within PRMCR. Additionally, as servicer we are required to advance to PRMCR those payments due from borrowers, but not received, as of specified cut off dates. We received $12.6 million and $2.2 million in servicing fees from PRMCR in 2001 and 2000, respectively. In order to hedge interest rate risk and non credit related market value risk associated with its inventory of mortgage loans held for sale, PRMCR entered into swaps with counterparties not affiliated with us or PRMCR. The swap counterparties are required to maintain certain minimum ratings as approved by the rating agencies. Through separate swap agreements with the swap counterparties that mirror the original swaps with PRMCR, the interest rate risk and non credit related market value components are swapped back to us. Delinquent Residential Mortgage Loan Funding. In October 2000, our mortgage banking segment created a wholly owned, unconsolidated qualifying special purpose entity, Principal Residential Mortgage Funding, LLC ("PRMF"), to provide an off balance sheet source of funding for up to $250.0 million of qualifying delinquent mortgage loans. The limit was increased to $357.0 million in December 2001. We sell qualifying delinquent loans to PRMF which then transfers the loans to Principal Residential Mortgage EBO Trust ("Trust"), an unaffiliated Delaware business trust. The Trust funds its acquisitions of mortgage loans by selling participation certificates, representing an undivided interest in the Trust, to commercial paper conduit purchasers, who are not affiliated with us or any of our affiliates, directors or officers. At December 31, 2001, PRMF held $273.5 million in mortgage loans and had outstanding participation certificates of $256.9 million. Mortgage loans typically remain in the Trust until they are processed through the foreclosure claim process, are paid off or reinstate. Loans that reinstate are no longer eligible to remain in the Trust and are required to be removed by us at fair market value at the monthly settlement date following reinstatement. We are retained as the servicer of the mortgage loans and also perform accounting and various administrative functions on behalf of PRMF, in its capacity as the managing member of PRMF. As the servicer, we receive a servicing fee pursuant to the pooling and servicing agreement. We may also receive a successful servicing fee only after all other conditions in the monthly cash flow distribution are met. At December 31, 2001, our residual interest in such cash flows was $21.5 million and was recorded in other investments on the consolidated statements of financial position. The value of the residual interest was based on the net present value of expected cash flows from PRMF, as well as estimates of foreclosure losses associated with the related loans. We are required to advance funds for payment of interest on the participation certificates and other carrying costs, if sufficient cash is not available in the collection account to meet this obligation. We and the Trust are parties to a cost of funds hedge agreement. We pay the weighted average cost of funds on the participation certificates plus fees and expenses and receive the indicated swap bid rate, subject to a cap. 82 Margin Loan Securitizations. We sell loans under a margin loan securitization program and retain primary servicing responsibilities and subordinated interests. We receive servicing distributions approximating 0.3 percent of the outstanding balance and rights to future cash flows through an excess distribution from the trust, representing the balance remaining after all interest and fees of the trust have been accounted for. Our retained interests are subordinated to investors interests. Retained interests equate to 7% of the outstanding loan balances, of which we earn a return of 2.0% over the Australian 30 day Bank Bill swap rate. The investors and the securitization trusts have no recourse to our other assets for failure of debtors to pay when due. The value of our retained interests is subject to market risk and all positions are primarily hedged. No gains or losses on the transaction have been realized to date. The fair values of the retained interests, $37.8 million at December 31, 2001, are based upon our relative ownership percentage of the outstanding loan balances. At December 31, 2001, we utilized the present value of expected future cash flows as a valuation technique to assess the sensitivity of the fair values of retained interests. Key economic assumptions used in measuring the retained interests included interest margin, credit losses, terminations and discount rates, and the resulting changes to the fair values were not significant. Proceeds from advances on margin loans previously securitized were $86.4 million and $16.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Investments We had total consolidated assets as of December 31, 2001, of $88.4 billion, of which $44.8 billion were invested assets. The rest of our total consolidated assets are comprised primarily of separate account assets for which we do not bear investment risk. Because we generally do not bear any investment risk on assets held in separate accounts, the discussion and financial information below does not include such assets. Of our invested assets, $43.4 billion were held by our U.S. operations and the remaining $1.4 billion were held by our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment. U.S Investment Operations Our U.S. invested assets are managed by Principal Capital Management, a subsidiary of Principal Life. Our primary investment objective is to maximize after tax returns consistent with acceptable risk parameters. We seek to protect policyholders benefits by optimizing the risk/return relationship on an ongoing basis, through asset/liability matching, reducing the credit risk, avoiding high levels of investments that may be redeemed by the issuer, maintaining sufficiently liquid investments and avoiding undue asset concentrations through diversification. We are exposed to three primary sources of investment risk: o credit risk, relating to the uncertainty associated with the continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments of principal and interest; o interest rate risk, relating to the market price and or cash flow variability associated with changes in market yield curves; and o equity risk, relating to adverse fluctuations in a particular common stock. Our ability to manage credit risk is essential to our business and our profitability. We devote considerable resources to the credit analysis of each new investment. We manage credit risk through industry, issuer and asset class diversification. Our Investment Committee, appointed by our board of directors, establishes all investment policies and reviews and approves all investments. As of December 31, 2001, there are ten members on the Investment Committee, two of whom are members of our board of directors. The remaining eight members are senior management members representing various areas of our company. Our Fixed Income Securities Committee, consisting of fixed income securities senior management members, approves the credit rating for the fixed maturity securities we purchase. Teams of security analysts organized by industry focus either on the public or private markets and analyze and monitor these investments. In addition, we have teams who specialize in residential mortgage backed securities, commercial mortgage backed securities and public below investment grade securities. We establish a credit reviewed list of approved public issuers to provide an efficient way for our portfolio managers to purchase liquid bonds for which credit review has already been completed. Issuers remain on the list for six months unless removed by our analyst. Our analysts monitor issuers on the list on a continuous basis with a formal review 83 documented every six months or more frequently if material events affect the issuer. The analysis includes both fundamental and technical factors. The fundamental analysis encompasses both quantitative and qualitative analysis of the issuer. The qualitative analysis includes an assessment of both accounting and management aggressiveness. In addition, technical indicators such as stock price volatility and credit default swap levels are monitored. Our Fixed Income Securities Committee also reviews private transactions on a continuous basis to assess the quality ratings of our privately placed investments. We regularly review our investments to determine whether we should re rate them, employing the following criteria: o material declines in the issuers revenues or margins; o significant management or organizational changes; o significant uncertainty regarding the issuers industry; o debt service coverage or cash flow ratios that fall below industry specific thresholds; o violation of financial covenants; and o other business factors that relate to the issuer. A dedicated risk management team is responsible for centralized monitoring of the commercial mortgage portfolio. We apply a variety of strategies to minimize credit risk in our commercial mortgage loan portfolio. When considering the origination of new commercial mortgage loans, we review the cash flow fundamentals of the property, make a physical assessment of the underlying security, conduct a comprehensive market analysis and compare against industry lending practices. We use a proprietary risk rating model to evaluate all new and a majority of existing loans within the portfolio. The proprietary risk model is designed to stress projected cash flows under simulated economic and market downturns. Our lending guidelines are designed to encourage 75% or less loan to value ratios and a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.2 times. We analyze investments outside of these guidelines based on cash flow quality, tenancy and other factors. From 1998 through December 31, 2001, the weighted average loan to value ratio at origination for brick and mortar commercial mortgages in our portfolio was in the 65% 68% range and debt service coverage ratios at loan inception in the 1.6 1.7 times range. We have limited exposure to equity risk in our common stock portfolio. Equity securities accounted for only 2% of our U.S. invested assets as of December 31, 2001. Our investment decisions and objectives are a function of the underlying risks and product profiles of each primary business operation. In addition, we diversify our product portfolio offerings to include products that contain features that will protect us against fluctuations in interest rates. Those features include adjustable crediting rates, policy surrender charges and market value adjustments on liquidations. For further information on our management of interest rate risk, see Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk". Overall Composition of U.S. Invested Assets U.S. invested assets as of December 31, 2001, were predominantly of high quality and broadly diversified across asset class, individual credit, industry and geographic location. As shown in the following table, the major categories of U.S. invested assets are fixed maturity securities and commercial mortgages. The remainder is invested in real estate, equity securities and other assets. In addition, policy loans are included in our invested assets. We combined our invested assets in the Closed Block with invested assets outside the Closed Block in view of the similar asset quality characteristics of the two portfolios. The following discussion analyzes the composition of U.S. invested assets, which includes $4,169.1 million in invested assets of the Closed Block as of December 31, 2001, but excludes invested assets of the participating separate accounts. 84 U.S. Invested Assets As of December 31, 2001 2000 Carrying % of Carrying % of Amount Total Amount Total ($ in millions) Fixed maturity securities Public......................................... $ 18,227.6 42% $ 14,263.6 35% Private........................................ 10,800.2 25 11,611.4 28 Equity securities, available for sale............. 808.7 2 666.0 2 Mortgage loans Commercial .................................... 9,740.4 22 10,775.3 26 Residential.................................... 1,144.2 3 550.5 1 Real estate held for sale ........................ 390.7 1 695.4 2 Real estate held for investment................... 783.4 2 696.4 2 Policy loans...................................... 831.9 2 803.6 2 Other investments ................................ 678.4 1 681.2 2 Total invested assets.......................... $ 43,405.5 100% $ 40,743.4 100% Cash and cash equivalents......................... 495.8 750.1 Total invested assets and cash ................ $ 43,901.3 $ 41,493.5 We actively manage public fixed maturity securities, including our portfolio of residential mortgage backed securities, in order to provide liquidity and enhance yield and total return. Our residential mortgage backed securities are managed to ensure that the securities we hold trade close to or below par in order to manage prepayment risk. This active management has resulted in the realization of capital gains and losses with respect to such investments. U.S. Investment Results The yield on U.S. invested assets and on cash and cash equivalents, excluding net realized gains and losses, was 7.6%, 7.5% and 7.4% for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. The following table illustrates the yields on average assets for each of the components of our investment portfolio for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999: 85 U.S. Invested Assets Yields by Asset Type As of or for the year ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount ($ in millions) Fixed maturity securities Gross investment income(1)............... 7.7% $ 2,117.7 7.5% $ 1,813.3 7.4% $ 1,651.4 Net realized capital losses.............. (1.1) (310.2) (0.5) (129.6) (0.5) (104.3) Total.................................. $ 1,807.5 $ 1,683.7 $ 1,547.1 Ending assets (at carrying value)........ $29,027.8 $25,875.0 $22,584.3 Equity securities, available for sale Gross investment income(1)............... 3.7% $ 27.5 10.1% $ 72.1 4.4% $ 39.2 Net realized capital gains (losses)...... (9.6) (70.8) 11.2 80.3 43.2 381.4 Total.................................. $ (43.3) $ 152.4 $ 420.6 Ending assets (at carrying value)........ $ 808.7 $ 666.0 $ 768.1 Mortgage loans Commercial Gross investment income(1)............... 7.8% $ 797.3 8.2% $ 955.6 8.1% $ 1,005.8 Net realized capital gains (losses)...... 0.1 10.7 0.1 8.6 (0.1) (8.4) Total.................................. $ 808.0 $ 964.2 $ 997.4 Ending assets (at carrying value)........ $ 9,740.4 $10,775.3 $12,588.9 Mortgage loans Residential Gross investment income(1)............... 8.1% $ 68.8 9.3% $ 56.1 11.9% $ 98.3 Net realized capital gains (losses)...... Total.................................. $ 68.8 $ 56.1 $ 98.3 Ending assets (at carrying value)........ $ 1,144.2 $ 550.5 $ 651.0 Real estate Gross investment income(1)............... 13.8% $ 177.6 9.5% $ 170.8 7.8% $ 187.1 Net realized capital gains (losses)...... (1.5) (19.0) 4.6 82.3 2.4 56.4 Total.................................. $ 158.6 $ 253.1 $ 243.5 Ending assets (at carrying value)........ $ 1,174.1 $ 1,391.8 $ 2,201.2 Policy loans Gross investment income(1)............... 7.0% $ 57.5 7.0% $ 55.1 6.5% $ 50.2 Net realized capital gains (losses)...... Total.................................. $ 57.5 $ 55.1 $ 50.2 Ending assets (at carrying value)........ $ 831.9 $ 803.6 $ 780.5 Cash and cash equivalents Gross investment income(1)............... 4.5% $ 28.3 4.3% $ 24.0 5.1% $ 20.0 Net realized capital losses.............. (0.1) (0.5) (2.7) (0.1) Total $ 28.2 $ 21.3 $ 19.9 Ending assets (at carrying value)........ $ 495.8 $ 750.1 $ 368.4 Other investments Gross investment income(1)............... 13.8% $ 93.6 9.5% $ 57.0 9.2% $ 39.4 Net realized capital gains (losses)...... (9.5) (64.6) 16.4 98.2 16.6 70.8 Total.................................. $ 29.0 $ 155.2 $ 110.2 Ending assets (at carrying value)........ $ 678.4 $ 681.2 $ 514.0 Total before investment expenses Gross investment income(1)............... 7.9% $ 3,368.3 7.8% $ 3,204.0 7.7% $ 3,091.4 Net realized capital gains (losses)...... (1.1) (454.0) 0.3 137.1 1.0 395.8 Total.................................. $ 2,914.3 $ 3,341.1 $ 3,487.2 Investment expenses........................... 0.2% $ 102.8 0.3% $ 136.7 0.3% $ 113.5 Net investment income......................... 7.6% $ 3,265.5 7.5% $ 3,067.3 7.4% $ 2,977.9 (1) Yields are based on annual average asset carrying values for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000, and 1999. Fixed Maturity Securities We have classified the majority of our fixed maturity securities as available for sale. Accordingly, we mark such securities to market, with unrealized gains and losses excluded from earnings and reported as a separate component of other comprehensive income, net of deferred income taxes and an adjustment for the effect on deferred policy acquisition costs that would have occurred had such gains and losses been realized. We write down to fair value securities whose value is deemed other than temporarily impaired. We record writedowns as realized losses included in earnings and adjust the cost basis of such securities to fair value. The new cost basis is not changed for subsequent recoveries in value. 86 Fixed maturity securities consist of short term investments, publicly traded debt securities, privately placed debt securities and small amounts of redeemable preferred stock, and represented 67% of total U.S. invested assets as of December 31, 2001, and 63% as of December 31, 2000. The fixed maturity securities portfolio was comprised, based on carrying amount, of 63% in publicly traded fixed maturity securities and 37% in privately placed fixed maturity securities as of December 31, 2001, and 55% in publicly traded fixed maturity securities and 45% in privately placed fixed maturity securities as of December 31, 2000. Included in the privately placed category as of December 31, 2001, were $3.5 billion of securities eligible for resale to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933. Fixed maturity securities were diversified by category of issuer as of December 31, 2001, and December 31, 2000, as shown in the following table: U.S. Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities by Type of Issuer As of December 31, 2001 2000 Carrying % of Carrying % of Amount Total Amount Total ($ in millions) U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. Government corporations and agencies.............. $ 15.1 % $ 21.3 % States and political subdivisions.................... 317.5 1 295.7 1 Foreign governments.................................. 603.5 2 604.3 2 Corporate public................................... 13,038.8 45 8,740.8 34 Corporate private.................................. 9,171.1 32 9,796.6 38 Mortgage backed securities and other asset backed securities................................. 5,881.8 20 6,416.3 25 Total fixed maturities............................ $ 29,027.8 100% $ 25,875.0 100% The international exposure in our U.S. invested assets totaled $3,877.4 million, or 13%, of total fixed maturity securities, as of December 31, 2001, comprised of corporate and foreign government fixed maturity securities. Of the $3,877.4 million as of December 31, 2001, investments totaled $1,177.6 million in the United Kingdom, $653.8 million in the continental European Union, $511.0 million in Asia, $383.2 million in South America, $336.8 million in Australia and $25.7 million in Japan. The remaining $789.3 million was invested in 14 other countries. All international fixed maturity securities held by our U.S. operations are either denominated in U.S. dollars or have been swapped into U.S. dollar equivalents. Our international investments are analyzed internally by country and industry credit investment professionals. We control concentrations using issuer and country level exposure benchmarks, which are based on the credit quality of the issuer and the country. Our investment policy limits total international fixed maturity securities investments to 15% of total statutory general account assets with a 4% limit in emerging markets. Exposure to Canada is not included in our international exposure due to its treatment by the NAIC. As of December 31, 2001, our investments in Canada totaled $852.1 million. The Securities Valuation Office of the NAIC evaluates most of the fixed maturity securities that we and other U.S. insurance companies hold. The Securities Valuation Office evaluates the bond investments of insurers for regulatory reporting purposes and assigns securities to one of six investment categories. The NAIC Designations closely mirror the nationally recognized securities rating organizations credit ratings for marketable bonds. NAIC Designations 1 and 2 include bonds considered investment grade by such rating organizations. Bonds are considered investment grade when rated "Baa3" or higher by Moodys, or "BBB " or higher by Standard & Poors. NAIC Designations 3 through 6 are referred to as below investment grade. Bonds are considered below investment grade when rated "Ba1" or lower by Moodys, or "BB+" or lower by Standard & Poors. The following tables present our publicly traded, privately placed and total fixed maturity securities by NAIC Designation and the equivalent ratings of the nationally recognized securities rating organizations as of December 31, 2001, and December 31, 2000, as well as the percentage, based on estimated fair value, that each designation comprises: 87 U.S. Invested Assets Publicly Traded Fixed Maturity Securities by Credit Quality As of December 31, 2001 As of December 31, 2000 % of % of Rating Total Total NAIC Agency Amortized Carrying Carrying Amortized Carrying Carrying Rating Equivalent Cost Amount Amount Cost Amount Amount ($ in millions) 1 Aaa/Aa/A.............. $ 9,955.3 $10,406.5 57% $ 9,029.4 $ 9,283.0 65% 2 Baa................... 6,939.5 7,112.8 39 4,432.3 4,492.8 32 3 Ba.................... 496.3 474.5 3 451.7 434.1 3 4 B..................... 165.3 148.4 1 44.4 21.9 5 Caa and lower......... 28.4 26.5 27.7 27.3 6 In or near default............... 60.6 58.9 14.9 4.5 Total public fixed maturities.. $17,645.4 $18,227.6 100% $14,000.4 $14,263.6 100% U.S. Invested Assets Privately Placed Fixed Maturity Securities by Credit Quality As of December 31, 2001 As of December 31, 2000 % of % of Rating Total Total NAIC Agency Amortized Carrying Carrying Amortized Carrying Carrying Rating Equivalent Cost Amount Amount Cost Amount Amount ($ in millions) 1 Aaa/Aa/A.............. $ 4,184.6 $ 4,349.7 40% $ 5,155.9 $ 5,213.9 45% 2 Baa................... 4,780.5 4,921.8 46 4,749.2 4,822.0 42 3 Ba.................... 1,105.7 1,085.9 10 1,151.3 1,126.5 10 4 B..................... 236.4 223.7 2 349.5 335.4 3 5 Caa and lower......... 64.0 64.3 1 73.3 40.7 6 In or near default............... 180.3 154.8 1 111.0 72.9 Total private fixed maturities.. $10,551.5 $10,800.2 100% $11,590.2 $11,611.4 100% 88 U.S. Invested Assets Total Fixed Maturity Securities by Credit Quality As of December 31, 2001 As of December 31, 2000 % of % of Rating Total Total NAIC Agency Amortized Carrying Carrying Amortized Carrying Carrying Rating Equivalent Cost Amount Amount Cost Amount Amount ($ in millions) 1 Aaa/Aa/A.............. $14,139.9 $14,756.2 51% $14,185.3 $14,496.9 56% 2 Baa................... 11,720.0 12,034.6 42 9,181.5 9,314.8 36 3 Ba.................... 1,602.0 1,560.4 5 1,603.0 1,560.6 6 4 B..................... 401.7 372.1 1 393.9 357.3 2 5 Caa and lower......... 92.4 90.8 101.0 68.0 6 In or near default............... 240.9 213.7 1 125.9 77.4 Total fixed Maturities........ $28,196.9 $29,027.8 100% $25,590.6 $25,875.0 100% We believe that our long term fixed maturity securities portfolio is well diversified among industry types and between publicly traded and privately placed securities. Each year we direct the majority of our net cash inflows into investment grade fixed maturity securities. We typically invest up to 7% of general account cash flow in below investment grade assets. While the general account investment returns have improved due to the below investment grade asset class, we manage its growth strategically by limiting it to 10% of the total fixed maturity securities portfolio. We invest in privately placed fixed maturity securities to enhance the overall value of the portfolio, increase diversification and obtain higher yields than are possible with comparable quality public market securities. Generally, private placements provide broader access to management information, strengthened negotiated protective covenants, call protection features and, where applicable, a higher level of collateral. They are, however, generally not freely tradable because of restrictions imposed by federal and state securities laws and illiquid trading markets. As of December 31, 2001, the percentage, based on estimated fair value, of total publicly traded and privately placed fixed maturity securities that were investment grade with an NAIC Designation 1 or 2 was 93%. The following tables show the carrying amount of our corporate fixed maturity securities by industry category, as well as the percentage of the total corporate portfolio that each industry category comprises as of December 31, 2001, and December 31, 2000. The tables also show by industry category the relative amounts of publicly traded and privately placed securities. U.S. Invested Assets Corporate Fixed Maturity Securities Portfolio by Industry as of December 31, 2001 Publicly Traded Privately Placed Total Carrying % of Carrying % of Carrying % of Amount Total Amount Total Amount Total ($ in millions) Industry Class Transportation and Public Utilities..... $ 5,119.9 39% $ 2,120.7 23% $ 7,240.6 33% Finance, Insurance and Real Estate...... 3,296.0 25 2,107.7 23 5,403.7 24 Manufacturing........................... 2,765.9 21 2,461.9 27 5,227.8 23 Mining.................................. 891.5 7 865.0 9 1,756.5 8 Retail.................................. 484.4 4 738.6 8 1,223.0 5 Services................................ 384.2 3 593.9 7 978.1 4 Public Administration................... 31.8 122.6 1 154.4 1 Construction............................ 1.8 112.5 1 114.3 1 Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing....... 63.3 1 48.2 1 111.5 1 Total............................... $ 13,038.8 100% $ 9,171.1 100% $ 22,209.9 100% 89 U.S. Invested Assets Corporate Fixed Maturity Securities Portfolio by Industry as of December 31, 2000 Publicly Traded Privately Placed Total Carrying % of Carrying % of Carrying % of Amount Total Amount Total Amount Total ($ in millions) Industry Class Transportation and Public Utilities..... $ 3,197.1 37% $ 1,957.9 20% $ 5,155.0 28% Finance, Insurance and Real Estate...... 2,657.1 30 2,300.9 24 4,958.0 27 Manufacturing........................... 1,678.9 19 2,845.9 29 4,524.8 24 Mining.................................. 496.1 6 936.8 10 1,432.9 8 Retail.................................. 295.2 3 795.9 8 1,091.1 6 Services................................ 351.5 4 686.3 7 1,037.8 5 Public Administration................... 20.3 111.4 1 131.7 1 Construction............................ 9.9 120.3 1 130.2 1 Agriculture, Forestry and Fishing....... 34.7 1 41.2 75.9 Total............................... $ 8,740.8 100% $ 9,796.6 100% $ 18,537.4 100% As of December 31, 2001, our largest unaffiliated single concentration of fixed maturity securities consisted of $315.3 million of corporate bonds by Ford Motor Company and its affiliates. This represented approximately 1% of our total U.S. invested assets as of December 31, 2001. No other individual non government issuer represented more than 1% of U.S. invested assets. We held $5,881.8 million of mortgage backed and asset backed securities as of December 31, 2001, and $6,416.3 million as of December 31, 2000. The following table presents the types of mortgage backed securities ("MBSs"), as well as other asset backed securities, held for the years indicated: U.S. Invested Assets Mortgage and Asset Backed Securities Carrying Amount As of December 31, 2001 2000 (in millions) Residential pass through securities......... $ 2,855.5 $ 3,426.5 Commercial MBS.............................. 1,874.1 1,403.4 Asset backed securities..................... 1,152.2 1,586.4 Total MBSs and asset backed securities... $ 5,881.8 $ 6,416.3 We believe that it is desirable to hold residential mortgage backed securities due to their credit quality and liquidity as well as portfolio diversification characteristics. Our portfolio is comprised of GNMA, FNMA and FHLMC pass through securities and is actively managed to ensure that the securities held are trading close to or below par, in order to reduce risk of prepayments. As of December 31, 2001, we held no collateralized mortgage obligations in our U.S. invested asset portfolio. Commercial mortgage backed securities provide high levels of credit protection, diversification, reduced event risk and enhanced liquidity. Commercial mortgage backed securities are predominantly comprised of rated large pool securitizations that are individually and collectively diverse by property type, borrower and geographic dispersion. We purchase asset backed securities, ("ABS"), to diversify the overall credit risks of the fixed maturity securities portfolio and to provide attractive returns. The principal risks in holding asset backed securities are structural and credit risks. Structural risks include the securitys priority in the issuers capital structure, the adequacy of and ability to realize proceeds from the collateral and the potential for prepayments. Credit risks involve issuer/servicer risk where collateral values can become impaired in the event of servicer credit deterioration. 90 Our ABS portfolio is diversified both by type of asset and by issuer. We actively monitor holdings of asset backed securities to ensure that the risk profile of each security improves or remains consistent. If we are not receiving an adequate yield for the risk, relative to other investment opportunities, we will attempt to sell the security. Prepayments in the ABS portfolio are, in general, insensitive to changes in interest rates or are insulated to such changes by call protection features. In the event that we are subject to prepayment risk, we monitor the factors that impact the level of prepayment and prepayment speed for those asset backed securities. To the extent we believe that prepayment risk increases, we may attempt to sell the security and reinvest in another security that offers better yield relative to the risk. In addition, we diversify the risks of asset backed securities by holding a diverse class of securities, which limits our exposure to any one security. U.S. Invested Assets Asset Backed Securities by Type Carrying Amount As of December 31, 2001 2000 (in millions) Credit cards................................ $ 131.2 $ 220.0 Automobile receivables...................... 49.7 72.2 Collateralized debt obligations............. 468.6 579.1 Lease receivables........................... 101.5 198.9 Consumer loans.............................. 126.5 145.0 Other....................................... 274.7 371.2 Total asset backed securities............ $ 1,152.2 $ 1,586.4 In accordance with our asset liability risk management techniques, we manage the expected lives of U.S. invested assets to be similar to the lives of our liabilities. Significant amounts of our liabilities have an expected life of six years or less. Therefore, comparable amounts of assets have a similar expected life. The amortized cost and estimated fair value of fixed maturity securities, by contractual maturity dates, excluding scheduled sinking funds, as of December 31, 2001, and December 31, 2000, as follows: U.S. Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities by Contractual Maturity Dates As of December 31, 2001 2000 Amortized Carrying Amortized Carrying Cost Amount Cost Amount (in millions) Due in one year or less.............................. $ 1,358.2 $ 1,367.3 $ 1,093.6 $ 1,083.8 Due after one year through five years................ 10,484.3 10,815.0 9,691.0 9,687.7 Due after five years through ten years............... 5,535.6 5,722.0 5,058.0 5,135.6 Due after ten years.................................. 5,159.3 5,241.7 3,505.4 3,551.6 Subtotal.......................................... 22,537.4 23,146.0 19,348.0 19,458.7 Mortgage backed and other securities without a single maturity date.............................. 5,659.5 5,881.8 6,242.6 6,416.3 Total........................................... $28,196.9 $29,027.8 $25,590.6 $25,875.0 We monitor any decline in the credit quality of fixed maturity securities through the designation of "problem securities", "potential problem securities" and "restructured securities". We define problem securities in our fixed maturity portfolio as securities: (i) as to which principal and or interest payments are in default or (ii) issued by a company that went into bankruptcy subsequent to the acquisition of such securities. We define potential problem securities in our fixed maturity portfolio as securities included on an internal "watch list" for which management has concerns as to the ability of the issuer to comply with the present debt payment terms and which may result in the security becoming a problem or being restructured. The decision whether to classify a performing fixed maturity security as a potential problem involves significant subjective judgments by our management as to the likely future industry conditions and developments with respect to the issuer. We define 91 restructured securities in our fixed maturity portfolio as securities where a concession has been granted to the borrower related to the borrowers financial difficulties that would not have otherwise been considered. We determine that restructures should occur in those instances where greater economic value will be realized under the new terms than through liquidation or other disposition and may involve a change in contractual cash flows. In December 2001, Enron Corp., along with certain of its subsidiaries, filed voluntary petitions for Chapter 11 reorganization with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court. We recognized realized losses in 2001 for other than temporary impairments and have classified our remaining investment in Enron Corp. and Enron related entities of $45.5 million in our problem fixed maturity securities. The following table presents the total carrying amount of our fixed maturity portfolio, as well as its problem, potential problem and restructured fixed maturities for the years indicated: U.S. Invested Assets Problem, Potential Problem and Restructured Fixed Maturities at Carrying Amount As of December 31, 2001 2000 ($ in millions) Total fixed maturity securities (public and private)......... $ 29,027.8 $ 25,875.0 Problem fixed maturity securities............................ $ 198.8 $ 79.0 Potential problem fixed maturity securities.................. 365.1 132.5 Restructured fixed maturity securities....................... 110.8 48.6 Total problem, potential problem and restructured fixed maturity securities..................................... $ 674.7 $ 260.1 Total problem, potential problem and restructured fixed maturity securities as a percent of total fixed maturity securities.............................................. 2% 1% Equity Securities Our equity securities consist primarily of investments in common stocks. We classify our investment in common stocks as available for sale and report them at fair value. We report unrealized gains and losses on common stocks as a separate component of other comprehensive income, net of deferred income taxes and an adjustment for the effect on deferred acquisition costs that would have occurred if such gains and losses had been realized. Investments in equity securities, totaled $808.7 million and $666.0 million, which represented 2% of U.S. invested assets as of December 31, 2001, and December 31, 2000, respectively. Investments in company sponsored funds totaled $463.3 million, or 57%, of our U.S. equity securities as of December 31, 2001. These sponsored funds are intended to be marketed to our asset management clients. Of company sponsored funds, $313.6 million represented underlying investments in publicly traded equities, $144.0 million represented investments in publicly traded fixed income securities and $5.7 million in balanced funds which represented investments in both publicly traded equities and fixed income securities as of December 31, 2001. The remaining balance of equity securities is a mixture of public and private securities acquired for investment purposes or which were acquired through equity participation features of below investment grade bonds or through recoveries of defaulted securities. Mortgage Loans Mortgage loans comprised 25% of total U.S. invested assets as of December 31, 2001, and 27% as of December 31, 2000. Mortgage loans consist of commercial and residential loans. Commercial mortgage loans comprised $9,740.4 million as of December 31, 2001, and $10,775.3 million as of December 31, 2000, or 89% and 95%, of total mortgage loan investments, respectively. Residential mortgages comprised $1,144.2 million and $550.5 million, or 11% and 5%, of total mortgage loan investments as of December 31, 2001, and December 31, 2000, respectively. Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. and Principal Bank hold the majority of 92 residential loans. Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. holds residential loans as part of its securitization inventory and Principal Bank holds residential loans to comply with federal thrift charter requirements. Commercial Mortgage Loans. Commercial mortgages play an important role in our investment strategy by: o providing strong risk adjusted relative value in comparison to other investment alternatives; o enhancing total returns; and o providing strategic portfolio diversification. As a result, we have focused on constructing a solid, high quality portfolio of mortgages. Our portfolio is generally comprised of mortgages with conservative loan to value ratios, high debt service coverages and general purpose property types with a strong credit tenancy. Our commercial loan portfolio consists of primarily non recourse, fixed rate mortgages on fully or near fully leased properties. The mortgage portfolio is comprised of general purpose industrial properties, manufacturing office properties and credit oriented retail properties. California accounted for 21% of our commercial mortgage loan portfolio as of December 31, 2001. We are, therefore, exposed to potential losses resulting from the risk of catastrophes, such as earthquakes, that may affect the region. Like other lenders, we generally do not require earthquake insurance for properties on which we make commercial mortgage loans. With respect to California properties, however, we obtain an engineering report specific to each property. The report assesses the buildings design specifications, whether it has been upgraded to meet seismic building codes and the maximum loss that is likely to result from a variety of different seismic events. We also obtain a report that assesses by building and geographic fault lines the amount of loss our commercial mortgage loan portfolio might suffer under a variety of seismic events. The following is a summary of our commercial mortgage loans by property type and region as of December 31, 2001, and December 31, 2000: U.S. Invested Assets Commercial Mortgage Loan Distribution by Type As of December 31, 2001 2000 Carrying % of Carrying % of Amount Total Amount Total ($ in millions) Office........................ $ 3,252.5 33% $ 3,273.5 30% Retail........................ 3,106.5 32 3,612.7 34 Industrial.................... 2,948.9 30 3,381.6 31 Apartments.................... 349.8 4 419.7 4 Mixed use/other............... 111.8 1 130.2 1 Hotel......................... 61.6 1 65.6 1 Valuation allowance........... (90.7) (1) (108.0) (1) Total...................... $ 9,740.4 100% $10,775.3 100% 93 U.S. Invested Assets Commercial Mortgage Loan Distribution by Region As of December 31, 2001 2000 Carrying % of Carrying % of Amount Total Amount Total ($ in millions) Pacific................. $ 2,421.3 25% $ 2,774.8 26% South Atlantic.......... 2,403.0 25 2,630.5 24 Middle Atlantic......... 1,606.3 16 1,664.9 15 East North Central...... 930.1 10 1,006.2 9 West South Central...... 769.0 8 886.4 8 Mountain................ 637.7 7 600.2 6 West North Central...... 397.8 4 439.9 4 East South Central...... 338.5 3 384.5 4 New England............. 327.4 3 495.9 5 Valuation allowance..... (90.7) (1) (108.0) (1) Total................ $ 9,740.4 100% $10,775.3 100% Our commercial loan portfolio is highly diversified by borrower. As of December 31, 2001, 43% of the U.S. commercial mortgage loan portfolio was comprised of mortgage loans with principal balances of less than $10.0 million. The following table shows our U.S. commercial mortgage loan portfolio by loan size, for the years indicated: U.S. Invested Assets Commercial Mortgage Loan Portfolio By Loan Size As of December 31, 2001 As of December 31, 2000 Number Principal % of Number Principal % of of Loans Balance Total of Loans Balance Total ($ in millions) Under $5 million........................ 1,102 $ 2,306.7 23% 1,236 $ 2,553.5 24% $5 million but less than $10 million.... 275 1,925.5 20 304 2,116.5 19 $10 million but less than $20 million... 168 2,267.2 23 187 2,515.2 23 $20 million but less than $30 million... 59 1,410.6 14 63 1,495.3 14 $30 million and over.................... 42 1,925.0 20 48 2,204.5 20 Total............................. 1,646 $ 9,835.0 100% 1,838 $ 10,885.0 100% The total number of commercial mortgage loans outstanding as of December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2000 was 1,646 and 1,838, respectively. The average loan size of our commercial mortgage portfolio was $6.0 million as of December 31, 2001. The largest loan on any single property at such dates aggregated $100.0 million for December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively, and represented 0.2% of U.S. invested assets on these dates. Total mortgage loans to the 10 largest borrowers accounted in the aggregate for approximately 7.1% of the total carrying amount of the commercial mortgage loan portfolio as of December 31, 2001, and 7.0% as of December 31, 2000, and 2% of total U.S. invested assets as of December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively. As of such dates, all such loans were performing. The following table presents the disposition of maturities as of December 31, 2001, and December 31, 2000: 94 U.S. Invested Assets Dispositions of Scheduled Maturities of Commercial Mortgage Loans Amortized Cost As of December 31, 2001 2000 (in millions) Paid as scheduled........... $ 434.7 $ 395.0 Extended.................... 138.1 174.8 Refinanced.................. 75.7 82.7 Foreclosed.................. 5.4 Expired maturities.......... 10.6 59.1 Total.................... $ 664.5 $ 711.6 The amortized cost of commercial mortgage loans by contractual maturity dates, excluding scheduled sinking funds as of December 31, 2001, and December 31, 2000, are as follows: U.S. Invested Assets Commercial Mortgage Loan Portfolio Maturity Profile As of December 31, 2001 2000 Amortized % of Amortized % of Cost Total Cost Total ($ in millions) Due in one year or less................ $ 732.6 8% $ 675.8 6% Due after one year through five years.. 3,180.8 32 3,033.4 28 Due after five years through ten years. 2,890.8 29 3,900.7 36 Due after ten years.................... 3,026.9 31 3,273.4 30 Total............................... $ 9,831.1 100% $10,883.3 100% We actively monitor and manage our commercial mortgage loan portfolio. Substantially all loans within the portfolio are analyzed regularly, based on a proprietary risk rating cash flow model, in order to monitor the financial quality of these assets and are internally rated. Based on ongoing monitoring, mortgage loans with a likelihood of becoming delinquent are identified and placed on an internal "watch list". Among criteria which would indicate a potential problem are: imbalances in ratios of loan to value or contract rents to debt service, major tenant vacancies or bankruptcies, borrower sponsorship problems, late payments, delinquent taxes and loan relief/restructuring requests. We state commercial mortgage loans at their unpaid principal balances, net of discount accrual and premium amortization, valuation allowances and writedowns for impairment. We provide a valuation allowance for commercial mortgage loans based on past loan loss experience and for specific loans considered to be impaired. Mortgage loans are considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement may not be collected. When we determine that a loan is impaired, we establish a valuation allowance for loss for the excess of the carrying value of the mortgage loan over its estimated fair value. Estimated fair value is based on either the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loans original effective interest rate, the loans observable market price or the fair value of the collateral. We record increases in such valuation allowances as realized investment losses and, accordingly, we reflect such losses in our consolidated results of operations. Such increases (decreases) in valuation allowances aggregated $(17.3) million for the year ended December 31, 2001, and $(9.8) million for the year ended December 31, 2000. We review our mortgage loan portfolio and analyze the need for a valuation allowance for any loan which is delinquent for 60 days or more, in process of foreclosure, restructured, on the "watch list", or which currently has a valuation allowance. We categorize loans which are delinquent, loans in process of foreclosure and loans to borrowers in bankruptcy as "problem" loans. Potential problem loans are loans placed on an internal "watch list" for which 95 management has concerns as to the ability of the borrower to comply with the present loan payment terms and which may result in the loan becoming a problem or being restructured. The decision whether to classify a performing loan as a potential problem involves significant subjective judgments by management as to the likely future economic conditions and developments with respect to the borrower. We categorize loans for which the original terms of the mortgages have been modified or for which interest or principal payments have been deferred as "restructured" loans. We also consider matured loans that are refinanced at below market rates as restructured. We charge mortgage loans deemed to be uncollectible against the allowance for losses and credit subsequent recoveries to the allowance for losses. We maintain the allowance for losses at a level management believes to be adequate to absorb estimated probable credit losses. Management bases its periodic evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for losses on our past loan loss experience, known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrowers ability to repay, the estimated value of the underlying collateral, composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and other relevant factors. The evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires estimating the amounts and timing of future cash flows expected to be received on impaired loans that may change. The following table represents our commercial mortgage valuation allowance for the years indicated: U.S. Invested Assets Commercial Mortgage Valuation Allowance As of December 31, 2001 2000 ($ in millions) Beginning balance.......................................... $ 108.0 $ 117.8 Provision.................................................. 12.0 3.0 Release due to writedowns, sales and foreclosures.......... (29.3) (12.8) Ending balance............................................. $ 90.7 $ 108.0 Valuation allowance as % of carrying value before reserves. 1% 1% The following table presents the carrying amounts of problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages relative to the carrying amount of all commercial mortgages for the years indicated: U.S. Invested Assets Problem, Potential Problem and Restructured Commercial Mortgages at Carrying Amount As of December 31, 2001 2000 ($ in millions) Total commercial mortgages ................................ $ 9,740.4 $10,775.3 Problem commercial mortgages(1)............................ $ 47.1 $ 8.9 Potential problem commercial mortgages .................... 98.9 58.9 Restructured commercial mortgages ......................... 42.4 92.6 Total problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages .................... $ 188.4 $ 160.4 Total problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages as a percent of total commercial mortgages............................................. 2% 1% (1) Problem commercial mortgages included mortgage loans in foreclosure of $6.0 million as of December 31, 2000. There were no mortgage loans in foreclosure as of December 31, 2001. 96 Equity Real Estate We hold commercial equity real estate as part of our investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2001, and December 31, 2000, the carrying amount of equity real estate investment was $1,174.1 million and $1,391.8 million, or 3% and 4% of U.S. invested assets, respectively. We own real estate, real estate acquired upon foreclosure of commercial mortgage loans and interests, both majority owned and non majority owned, in real estate joint ventures. We continue to focus on a long term strategy of reducing our real estate equity portfolio. Equity real estate is categorized as either "real estate held for investment" or "real estate held for sale". Real estate held for investment totaled $783.4 million as of December 31, 2001, and $696.4 million as of December 31, 2000. The carrying value of real estate held for investment is generally adjusted for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. Such impairment adjustments are recorded as realized investment losses and accordingly, are reflected in our consolidated results of operations. For the years ended December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2000, there were no such impairment adjustments. The carrying amount of real estate held for sale as of December 31, 2001, and December 31, 2000, was $390.7 million and $695.4 million, net of valuation allowances of $19.8 million and $40.8 million, respectively. Once we identify a real estate property to be sold and commence a plan for marketing the property, we classify the property as held for sale. We establish a valuation allowance subject to periodical revisions, if necessary, to adjust the carrying value of the property to reflect the lower of its current carrying value or the fair value, less associated selling costs. We use research, both internal and external, to recommend appropriate product and geographic allocations and changes to the equity real estate portfolio. We monitor product, geographic and industry diversification separately and together to determine the most appropriate mix. Equity real estate is distributed across geographic regions of the country with larger concentrations in the South Atlantic, Pacific, and West South Central regions of the United States as of December 31, 2001. By property type, there is a concentration in office buildings that represented approximately 36% of the equity real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2001. Our largest equity real estate holding as of December 31, 2001 consisted of an office/industrial park located in Durham, North Carolina with an aggregate carrying value of approximately $148.3 million and represented approximately 13% of total U.S. equity real estate assets and 0.3% of U.S. invested assets. The ten largest real estate properties as of December 31, 2001 comprised 47% of total U.S. equity real estate assets and 1% of total U.S. invested assets. In addition, our equity real estate includes our investment in BT Hotels. As of December 31, 2001, BT Hotels was fully consolidated into our financial statements and is reflected in the International region and Hotel/Motel property type in the following investment schedules: 97 U.S. Invested Assets Equity Real Estate by Region(1) As of December 31, 2001 2000 Carrying % of Carrying % of Amount Total Amount Total ($ in millions) South Atlantic............. $ 376.4 32% $ 431.7 31% West South Central......... 236.4 20 362.2 26 International.............. 223.6 19 Pacific.................... 183.8 16 384.6 28 East North Central......... 62.3 5 120.7 9 East South Central......... 32.3 3 21.5 1 West North Central......... 28.0 2 19.0 1 New England................ 14.3 1 14.5 1 Mountain................... 8.8 1 8.9 1 Middle Atlantic............ 8.2 1 28.7 2 Total................... $ 1,174.1 100% $ 1,391.8 100% (1) Regions are defined by the American Council of Life Insurers. U.S. Invested Assets Equity Real Estate by Property Type As of December 31, 2001 2000 Carrying % of Carrying % of Amount Total Amount Total ($ in millions) Office..................... $ 422.9 36% $ 615.5 44% Hotel/Motel................ 223.6 19 Industrial................. 221.6 19 413.6 30 Retail..................... 138.9 12 152.7 11 Service Center............. 63.1 5 120.1 9 Land....................... 53.3 5 89.9 6 Apartments................. 50.7 4 Total................... $ 1,174.1 100% $ 1,391.8 100% Derivatives We use various derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, including interest rate futures and interest rate swaps and swaptions. We use interest rate futures contracts to hedge changes in interest rates subsequent to the issuance of an insurance liability, such as a guaranteed investment contract, but prior to the purchase of a supporting asset, or during periods of holding assets in anticipation of near term liability sales. We use interest rate swaps primarily to more closely match the interest rate characteristics of assets and liabilities. They can be used to change the interest rate characteristics of specific assets and liabilities as well as an entire portfolio. Occasionally, we will sell a callable liability or a liability with attributes similar to a call option. In these cases, we will use interest rate swaptions or similar products to hedge the risk of early liability payment, thereby transforming the callable liability into a fixed term liability. We also seek to reduce call or prepayment risk arising from changes in interest rates in individual investments. We limit our exposure to investments that are prepayable without penalty prior to maturity at the option of the issuer, and we require additional yield on these investments to compensate for the risk that the issuer will exercise such option. An example of an investment we limit because of the option risk is residential mortgage backed securities. We assess option risk in all investments we make and, when we take that risk, we price for it accordingly. 98 Foreign currency risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. This risk arises from our international operations and foreign currency denominated funding agreements issued to non qualified institutional investors in the international market. The notional amount of our currency swap agreements associated with foreign denominated liabilities as of December 31, 2001, was $3,130.9 million. We also have fixed maturity securities that are denominated in foreign currencies. However, we use derivatives to hedge the foreign currency risk of these funding agreements and securities. As of December 31, 2001, the fair value of our foreign currency denominated fixed maturity securities was $304.6 million. We use currency swap agreements of the same currency to hedge the foreign currency exchange risk related to these investments. The notional amount of our currency swap agreements associated with foreign denominated fixed maturity securities as of December 31, 2001, was $296.0 million. In conjunction with the interest rate swaps, interest rate swaptions and other derivatives, we are exposed to counterparty risk, or the risk that counterparty fails to perform the terms of the derivative contract. We actively manage this risk by: o establishing exposure limits which take into account non derivative exposure we have with the counterparty as well as derivative exposure; o performing similar credit analysis prior to approval on each derivatives counterparty that we do when lending money on a long term basis; o limiting exposure to AA credit or better; o conducting stress test analysis to determine the maximum exposure created during the life of a prospective transaction; and o daily monitoring of counterparty credit ratings. All new derivative counterparties are approved by the investment committee. We believe the risk of incurring losses due to nonperformance by our counterparties is remote and that such losses, if any, would not be material. Futures contracts trade on organized exchanges and, therefore, effectively have no credit risk. The notional amounts used to express the extent of our involvement in swap transactions represent a standard measurement of the volume of our swap business. Notional amount is not a quantification of market risk or credit risk and it may not necessarily be recorded on the balance sheet. Notional amounts represent those amounts used to calculate contractual flows to be exchanged and are not paid or received, except for contracts such as currency swaps. Actual credit exposure represents the amount owed to us under derivative contracts as of the valuation date. The following tables present our position in, and credit exposure to, derivative financial instruments as of December 31, 2001, and December 31, 2000: 99 U.S. Invested Assets Derivative Financial Instruments As of December 31, 2001 2000 Notional % of Notional % of Amount Total Amount Total ($ in millions) Mortgage backed forwards and options....... $ 9,250.7 34% $ 1,898.3 18% Foreign currency swaps..................... 4,091.9 15 2,745.0 26 Swaptions ................................. 3,570.0 13 697.7 7 Interest rate floors....................... 3,400.0 13 2,450.0 23 Interest rate swaps........................ 3,272.5 12 2,241.5 22 Interest rate lock commitments............. 2,565.9 9 Currency forwards.......................... 380.0 1 39.4 Bond forwards.............................. 357.4 1 Principal Only swaps....................... 250.0 1 150.0 1 U.S. treasury futures...................... 186.6 1 183.2 2 Treasury rate guarantees................... 88.0 60.0 1 Call options............................... 30.0 30.0 Other...................................... 25.0 Total................................... $ 27,468.0 100% $ 10,495.1 100% U.S. Invested Assets Derivative Financial Instruments As of December 31, 2001 2000 Credit % of Credit % of Exposure Total Exposure Total ($ in millions) Foreign currency swaps................. $ 101.1 33% $ 45.3 42% Interest rate swaps.................... 78.4 25 14.1 13 Currency forwards...................... 55.3 18 5.5 5 Mortgage backed forwards and options... 41.7 14 Interest rate floors................... 13.2 4 20.0 18 Call options........................... 8.9 3 12.3 11 Swaptions ............................. 8.7 3 11.8 11 Other.................................. 0.1 Total............................... $ 307.4 100% $ 109.0 100% Other Investments Our other investments totaled $678.4 million as of December 31, 2001, compared to $681.2 million as of December 31, 2000. Our investment in Coventry is included in other investments as we accounted for it using the equity method. As of December 31, 2001, our carrying value in Coventry was $146.0 million. With the adoption of SFAS 133 on January 1, 2001, derivatives were reflected on our balance sheet and accounted for $116.5 million in other investments as of December 31, 2001. The remaining invested assets include leases and other private equity investments. Securities Lending The terms of our securities lending program, approved in 1999, allow us to lend our securities to major brokerage firms. Our policy requires an initial minimum of 102% of the fair value of the loaned securities as collateral. Our securities on loan as of December 31, 2001, had a fair value of $0.5 million. 100 International Investment Operations As of December 31, 2001, our international investment operations consist of the investments of Principal International and BT Financial Group and comprise $1.4 billion in invested assets, which primarily represent the assets of Principal International. Principal Capital Management works with each Principal International affiliate to develop investment policies and strategies that are consistent with the products they offer. Due to the regulatory constraints in each country, each company maintains its own investment policies which are approved by Principal Capital Management. Each international affiliate is required to submit a compliance report relative to its strategy to Principal Capital Management. A credit committee comprised of Principal Capital Management employees and international affiliate company chief investment officers review each corporate credit annually. In addition, employees from our U.S. operations who serve on the credit committee currently hold investment positions in two of our international affiliates. Principal Capital Management provides credit analysis training to Principal International personnel. Overall Composition of International Invested Assets As shown in the following table, the major categories of international invested assets as of December 31, 2001, and December 31, 2000, were fixed maturity securities and residential mortgage loans: International Invested Assets As of December 31, 2001 2000 Carrying % of Carrying % of Amount Total Amount Total ($ in millions) Fixed maturity securities Public.................................. $ 941.3 69% $ 948.6 70% Private................................. 61.0 4 16.3 1 Equity securities, available for sale...... 24.9 2 76.9 6 Mortgage loans Residential............................. 181.1 13 166.9 12 Real estate held for investment............ 7.7 1 8.7 1 Other investments ......................... 151.4 11 129.8 10 Total invested assets................... $1,367.4 100% $1,347.2 100% Cash and cash equivalents.................. 128.0 176.5 Total invested assets and cash ......... $1,495.4 $1,523.7 International Investment Results The yield on international invested assets and on cash and cash equivalents, excluding net realized gains and losses, was 8.5%, 7.1% and 7.5% for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. The following table illustrates the yields on average assets for each of the components of our investment portfolio for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000 and 1999: 101 International Invested Assets Yields by Asset Type As of or for the year ended December 31, 2001 2000 1999 Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount ($ in millions) Fixed maturity securities Gross investment income(1)............ 9.1% $ 89.3 7.4% $ 67.4 6.9% $ 61.0 Net realized capital gains (losses)... (2.2) (22.0) 0.4 3.7 0.8 7.4 Total............................... $ 67.3 $ 71.1 $ 68.4 Ending assets (at carrying value)..... $ 1,002.3 $ 964.9 $ 859.6 Equity securities, available for sale Gross investment income(1)............ 0.4% $ 0.2 0.6% $ 0.5 6.9% $ 7.0 Net realized capital gains (losses)... 6.5 3.3 (1.3) (1.1) 1.6 1.6 Total............................... $ 3.5 $ (0.6) $ 8.6 Ending assets (at carrying value)..... $ 24.9 $ 76.9 $ 96.1 Mortgage loans Residential Gross investment income(1)............ 10.4% $ 18.1 8.6% $ 11.2 15.2% $ 7.0 Net realized capital gains (losses)... Total............................... $ 18.1 $ 11.2 $ 7.0 Ending assets (at carrying value)..... $ 181.1 $ 166.9 $ 92.3 Real estate Gross investment income(1)............ 7.3% $ 0.6 5.1% $ 0.5 8.6% $ 0.4 Net realized capital gains (losses)... Total............................... $ 0.6 $ 0.5 $ 0.4 Ending assets (at carrying value)..... $ 7.7 $ 8.7 $ 10.8 Cash and cash equivalents Gross investment income(1)............ 2.9% $ 4.4 4.4% $ 8.3 4.8% $ 5.9 Net realized capital gains (losses)... Total............................... $ 4.4 $ 8.3 $ 5.9 Ending assets (at carrying value)..... $ 128.0 $ 176.5 $ 201.1 Other investments Gross investment income(1)............ 12.2% $ 17.1 11.7% $ 19.1 15.4% $ 15.9 Net realized capital gains (losses)... (29.4) (41.3) 0.1 0.2 (0.3) (0.3) Total............................... $ (24.2) $ 19.3 $ 15.6 Ending assets (at carrying value)..... $ 151.4 $ 129.8 $ 196.4 Total before investment expenses Gross investment income(1)............ 8.6% $ 129.7 7.2% $ 107.0 7.7% $ 97.2 Net realized capital gains (losses)... (4.0) (60.0) 0.2 2.8 0.7 8.7 Total............................... $ 69.7 $ 109.8 $ 105.9 Investment expenses........................ % $ 0.7 0.1% $ 2.0 0.2% $ 3.1 Net investment income...................... 8.5% $ 129.0 7.1% $ 105.0 7.5% $ 94.1 (1) Yields are based on annual average asset carrying values for the years ended December 31, 2001, 2000, and 1999. Fixed Maturity Securities Fixed maturity securities consist primarily of publicly traded debt securities and represented 73% of total international invested assets as of December 31, 2001, and 71% as of December 31, 2000. Fixed maturity securities were diversified by type of issuer as of December 31, 2001, and for the year ended December 31, 2000, as shown in the following table: 102 International Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities by Type of Issuer As of December 31, 2001 2000 Carrying % of Carrying % of Amount Total Amount Total ($ in millions) U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. Government corporations and agencies................ $ 0.3 % $ 1.8 % Foreign governments.................................... 322.8 32 313.6 32 Corporate public..................................... 363.6 37 376.5 39 Corporate private.................................... 61.0 6 16.3 2 Mortgage backed securities and other asset Backed securities................................... 254.6 25 256.7 27 Total fixed maturities.............................. $1,002.3 100% $ 964.9 100% The fixed maturity securities held by the international operations have not been rated by external agencies and cannot be presented in a comparable rating agency equivalent. The issuers of the majority of our fixed maturity corporate securities are mainly banks and are categorized in the finance, insurance and real estate category as shown in the following tables: International Invested Assets Corporate Fixed Maturity Securities Portfolio by Industry as of December 31, 2001 Publicly Traded Privately Placed Total Carrying % of Carrying % of Carrying % of Amount Total Amount Total Amount Total ($ in millions) Industry Class Finance, Insurance and Real Estate.... $ 180.2 50% $ 17.5 29% $ 197.7 47% Services.............................. 50.3 14 9.8 16 60.1 14 Construction.......................... 47.6 13 6.0 10 53.6 12 Transportation and Public Utilities... 49.7 14 49.7 12 Retail................................ 35.6 9 1.2 2 36.8 9 Manufacturing......................... 0.1 26.5 43 26.6 6 Public Administration................. 0.1 0.1 Total.............................. $ 363.6 100% $ 61.0 100% $ 424.6 100% International Invested Assets Corporate Fixed Maturity Securities Portfolio by Industry as of December 31, 2000 Publicly Traded Privately Placed Total Carrying % of Carrying % of Carrying % of Amount Total Amount Total Amount Total ($ in millions) Industry Class Finance, Insurance and Real Estate.... $ 240.3 64% $ % $ 240.3 61% Transportation and Public Utilities... 100.6 27 100.6 26 Retail................................ 26.2 7 26.2 7 Manufacturing......................... 0.3 13.3 82 13.6 3 Services.............................. 9.1 2 2.7 17 11.8 3 Construction.......................... 0.3 1 0.3 Total.............................. $ 376.5 100% $ 16.3 100% $ 392.8 100% 103 The international operations held $254.6 million of residential pass through securities as of December 31, 2001, and $256.7 million as of December 31, 2000. The amortized cost and estimated fair value of fixed maturity securities, by contractual maturity dates excluding scheduled sinking funds, as of December 31, 2001, and December 31, 2000, were as follows: International Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities by Contractual Maturity Dates As of December 31, 2001 2000 Amortized Carrying Amortized Carrying Cost Amount Cost Amount (in millions) Due in one year or less.............................. $ 35.5 $ 36.0 $ 31.6 $ 29.2 Due after one year through five years................ 161.7 162.3 91.8 95.3 Due after five years through ten years............... 212.8 211.8 215.6 217.2 Due after ten years.................................. 326.6 337.6 356.4 366.5 Subtotal.......................................... 736.6 747.7 695.4 708.2 Mortgage backed and other securities without a single maturity date.............................. 248.8 254.6 253.5 256.7 Total............................................. $ 985.4 $ 1,002.3 $ 948.9 $ 964.9 The international operations held $20.1 million of restructured government bonds in Argentina, which represented 2% of international fixed maturity securities as of December 31, 2001. Equity Securities Our equity securities represented 2% of international invested assets as of December 31, 2001, and 6% as of December 31, 2000. Our equity securities consisted of $8.2 million in mutual funds and $16.7 million in common stock as of December 31, 2001. Residential Mortgage Loans Our Chilean operations originate and purchase residential mortgage loans. Residential mortgage loans comprised $181.1 million, or 13%, of international invested assets as of December 31, 2001, and $166.9 million, or 12%, as of December 31, 2000. Derivatives The derivative contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2000 related to the 144A debt issued to purchase BT Financial Group in 1999. On December 28, 2001, all obligations of the long term debt were assumed by Principal Financial Services, Inc., and as of that date Principal Financial Group (Australia) Holdings Pty Limiteds obligations ceased. In conjunction with the move of the debt, the outstanding derivative contracts were assigned to PFSI. The following tables present our position in, and credit exposure to, derivative financial instruments as of December 31, 2001, and December 31, 2000. 104 International Invested Assets Derivative Financial Instruments As of December 31, 2001 2000 Notional % of Notional % of Amount Total Amount Total ($ in millions) Foreign currency swaps....... $ 13.4 100% $ 665.0 39% Interest rate swaps.......... 665.0 39 Currency forwards............ 380.0 22 Total..................... $ 13.4 100% $1,710.0 100% International Invested Assets Derivative Financial Instruments As of December 31, 2001 2000 Credit % of Credit % of Exposure Total Exposure Total ($ in millions) Interest rate swaps.......... $ % $ 39.1 42% Foreign currency swaps....... 28.4 30 Currency forwards............ 26.2 28 Total..................... % $ 93.7 100% Other Investments Our other investments totaled $151.4 million as of December 31, 2001, compared to $129.8 million as of December 31, 2000. Of the $151.4 million, $37.8 million is related to subordinated notes in BT Financial Groups margin lending program, $68.2 million represents our investments in unconsolidated subsidiaries in Brazil, Japan, India and Mexico, $25.5 million represents BT Financial Groups investment in unit trusts, $19.5 million represents other invested assets from our Chilean operations and $0.4 million represents other invested assets from our Mexican operations. Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Market Risk Exposures and Risk Management Market risk is the risk that we will incur losses due to adverse fluctuations in market rates and prices. Our primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates, although we also have exposures to changes in equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. The active management of market risk is an integral part of our operations. We manage our overall market risk exposure within established risk tolerance ranges by using the following approaches: o rebalance our existing asset or liability portfolios; o control the risk structure of newly acquired assets and liabilities; or o use derivative instruments to modify the market risk characteristics of existing assets or liabilities or assets expected to be purchased. 105 Interest Rate Risk Interest rate risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse changes in interest rates. Our exposure to interest rate risk stems largely from our substantial holdings of guaranteed fixed rate liabilities in our U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment. We seek to earn returns on investments that enhance our ability to offer competitive rates and prices to customers while contributing to attractive and stable profits and long term capital growth. Accordingly, our investment decisions and objectives are a function of the underlying risks and product profiles of each primary business operation. In addition, we diversify our product portfolio offerings to include products that contain features that will protect us against fluctuations in interest rates. Those features include adjustable crediting rates, policy surrender charges and market value adjustments on liquidations. We manage the interest rate risk inherent in our assets relative to the interest rate risk inherent in our liabilities. One of the measures we use to quantify this exposure is duration. Duration measures the change in the fair value of assets and liabilities for given changes in interest rates. For example, if interest rates increase by a hypothetical 100 basis points, the fair value of an asset with a duration of 5 years is expected to decrease in value by approximately 5%. To calculate duration, we project asset and liability cashflows. These cashflows are discounted to a net present value basis using a spot yield curve, which is a blend of the spot yield curves for each of the asset types in the portfolio. Duration is calculated by re calculating these cashflows and redetermining the net present value based upon an alternative level of interest rates, and determining the percentage change in fair value. As of December 31, 2001, the difference between the asset and liability durations on our primary duration managed portfolio was .02 years. This duration gap indicates that as of this date the sensitivity of the fair value of our assets to interest rate movements is greater than that of the fair value of our liabilities. Our goal is to minimize the duration gap. Currently, our guidelines dictate that total duration gaps between the asset and liability portfolios must be within 0.25 years. The value of the assets in this portfolio was $23,735.5 million as of December 31, 2001. We also manage interest rate risk by employing a partial duration analysis. With this technique, the yield curve is dissected into various term components and a partial duration is calculated for each. Each partial duration represents the potential change in fair value of the asset or liability to interest rate shift in rates in the applicable component of the yield curve. We minimize potential volatility in the fair value of surplus of Principal Life as a result of changes in the yield curve by managing each partial duration gap between the assets and liabilities within established guidelines. With respect to our primary duration managed portfolio, we use several methods to correct any potential total or partial duration gaps that are outside of our established risk tolerance ranges. We can rebalance the existing asset or liability portfolios or we can redirect new asset purchases until the asset portfolio is better aligned with the liabilities and our duration gaps are back within their limits. If a more expedient correction is desired, another method we use is forward interest rate swaps. These swaps are designed to move duration exposure from one specific point on the yield curve to another, and are an efficient way to quickly shift the partial and total duration profile of the asset portfolio so that duration gaps and hence interest rate risk is minimized. For products such as whole life insurance, term life insurance and single premium deferred annuities, the liability cashflow is less predictable, and a duration matching strategy is less reliable and manageable. We do, however, try to manage the duration of these portfolios. For these products, we manage interest rate risk based on a modeling process that considers the target average life, maturities, crediting rates and assumptions of policyholder behavior. As of December 31, 2001, the weighted average difference between the asset and liability durations on these portfolios was 1.2 years. This duration gap indicates that as of this date the sensitivity of the fair value of our assets to interest rate movements is greater than that of the fair value of our liabilities. We attempt to monitor this duration gap consistent with our overall risk/reward tolerances. The value of the assets in these portfolios was $10,225.7 million as of December 31, 2001. We also have a block of participating general account pension business that passes the actual investment performance of the assets to the customer. The investment strategy of this block is to maximize investment return to the customer on a "best efforts" basis, and there is little or no attempt to manage 106 the duration of this portfolio since there is little or no interest rate risk. The value of the assets in these portfolios was $4,886.3 million as of December 31, 2001. Using the assumptions and data in effect as of December 31, 2001, we estimate that a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase in interest rates decreases the net fair value of our portfolio by $127.5 million. The following table details the estimated changes by risk management strategy: As of Risk Management December 31, 2001 Net Fair Value Strategy Value of Total Assets Change (in millions) Primary duration managed...... $ 23,735.5 $ (4.7) Duration monitored............ 10,225.7 (122.8) Non duration managed.......... 4,886.3 Total...................... $ 38,847.5 $(127.5) Our selection of a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase or decrease in interest rates is a hypothetical rate scenario we use to demonstrate potential risk. While a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase does not represent our view of future market changes, it is a near term reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. While these fair value measurements provide a representation of interest rate sensitivity, they are based on our portfolio exposures at a point in time and may not be representative of future market results. These exposures will change as a result of ongoing portfolio transactions in response to new business, managements assessment of changing market conditions and available investment opportunities. We are also exposed to interest rate risk in our Mortgage Banking segment. We manage this risk by striving to balance our loan origination and loan servicing operations, the two of which are generally counter cyclical. In addition, we use various financial instruments, including derivatives contracts, to manage the interest rate risk specifically related to committed loans in the pipeline and mortgage servicing rights. The overall objective of our interest rate risk management policies is to offset changes in the values of these items resulting from changes in interest rates. We do not speculate on the direction of interest rates in our management of interest rate risk. We manage interest rate risk on our mortgage loan pipeline by buying and selling mortgage backed securities in the forward markets, over the counter options on mortgage backed securities, U.S. Treasury and Eurodollar futures contracts and options on futures contracts. We also use interest rate floors, futures contracts, options on futures contracts, swaps and swaptions, mortgage backed securities and principal only strips in hedging a portion of our portfolio of mortgage servicing rights from prepayment risk associated with changes in interest rates. We measure pipeline interest rate risk exposure by adjusting the at risk pipeline in light of the theoretical optionality of each applicants rate/price commitment. The at risk pipeline, which consists of closed loans and rate locks, is then refined at the product type level to express each products sensitivity to changes in market interest rates in terms of a single current coupon MBS duration. Suitable hedges are selected and a similar methodology applied to this hedge position. The variety of hedging instruments allows us to match the behavior of the financial instrument with that of the different types of loans originated. We limit our risk exposure by requiring that the net position value not change by more than $10.0 million given an instantaneous change in the benchmark MBS price of +/ 2.5%. This price sensitivity analysis is performed at least once daily. The value of the loans in the pipeline as of December 31, 2001, was $7.0 billion. Due to the impact of our hedging activities, we estimate that a 100 basis point immediate parallel increase in the interest rates decreases the December 31, 2001, net position value by $12.5 million. The financial risk associated with our mortgage servicing operations is the risk that the market value of the servicing asset falls below its U.S. GAAP book value. To measure this risk, we analyze each servicing risk tranches U.S. GAAP book value in relation to the then current market value for similar servicing rights. We perform this valuation using option adjusted spread valuation techniques applied to each risk tranche. We produce tranche market values at least monthly. The market value of the servicing asset declines as interest rates decrease due to possible mortgage loan servicing rights impairment that may result from increased current and projected future prepayment activity. The change in value of the servicing asset due to interest rate movements is reduced by the use of 107 financial instruments, including derivative contracts, that increase in aggregate value when interest rates decline. Based on values as of December 31, 2001, a 100 basis point parallel decrease in interest rates produces a $191.4 million decline in value of the servicing asset of our Mortgage Banking segment, net of the impact of these hedging vehicles, due to the differences between market values and U.S. GAAP book values. Derivatives. We use various derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, including interest rate swaps, Principal Only swaps, interest rate floors, swaptions, U.S. Treasury futures, Treasury rate guarantees, interest rate lock commitments and mortgage backed forwards and options. We use interest rate futures contracts and mortgage backed forwards to hedge changes in interest rates subsequent to the issuance of an insurance liability, such as a guaranteed investment contract, but prior to the purchase of a supporting asset, or during periods of holding assets in anticipation of near term liability sales. We use interest rate swaps and Principal Only swaps primarily to more closely match the interest rate characteristics of assets and liabilities. They can be used to change the interest rate characteristics of specific assets and liabilities as well as an entire portfolio. Occasionally, we will sell a callable liability or a liability with attributes similar to a call option. In these cases, we will use interest rate swaptions or similar products to hedge the risk of early liability payment thereby transforming the callable liability into a fixed term liability. We also seek to reduce call or prepayment risk arising from changes in interest rates in individual investments. We limit our exposure to investments that are prepayable without penalty prior to maturity at the option of the issuer, and we require additional yield on these investments to compensate for the risk that the issuer will exercise such option. An example of an investment we limit because of the option risk is residential mortgage backed securities. We assess option risk in all investments we make and, when we assume such risk, we seek to price for it accordingly to achieve an appropriate return on our investments. In conjunction with the interest rate swaps, interest rate swaptions and other derivatives, we are exposed to counterparty risk, or the risk that counterparty fails to perform the terms of the derivative contract. We actively manage this risk by: o establishing exposure limits which take into account non derivative exposure we have with the counterparty as well as derivative exposure; o performing similar credit analysis prior to approval on each derivatives counterparty that we do when lending money on a long term basis; o limiting exposure to AA credit or better; o conducting stress test analysis to determine the maximum exposure created during the life of a prospective transaction; and o daily monitoring of counterparty credit ratings. All new derivative counterparties are approved by the investment committee. We believe the risk of incurring losses due to nonperformance by our counterparties is remote and that such losses, if any, would not be material. Futures contracts trade on organized exchanges and, therefore, effectively have no credit risk. The following table shows the interest rate sensitivity of our derivatives measured in terms of fair value. These exposures will change as a result of ongoing portfolio and risk management activities. 108 As of December 31, 2001 Fair Value (no accrued interest) Weighted Notional Average Term 100 Basis +100 Basis Amount (Years) Point Change No Change Point Change ($ in millions) Interest rate swaps.................. $ 3,272.5 5.60(1) $ (51.9) $ 1.8 $ 50.7 Principal Only swaps................. 250.0 2.32(1) 21.6 (5.7) (17.9) Other................................ 25.0 0.30(1) 0.7 0.1 (0.5) Interest rate floors................. 3,400.0 4.50(2) 55.6 49.0 (23.2) U.S. Treasury futures................ 186.6 0.25(3) 3.4 0.9 (1.6) Swaptions............................ 3,570.0 1.61(4) 89.8 51.1 (40.3) Treasury rate guarantees............. 88.0 0.32(5) (6.1) 0.2 6.6 Bond forwards........................ 357.4 1.69(5) 12.0 (9.6) (30.5) Mortgage backed forwards and options. 9,250.7 0.24(5) (205.6) 36.6 254.4 Interest rate lock commitments....... 2,565.9 0.12(6) 64.1 (11.5) (130.0) Total............................. $22,966.1 $ (16.4) $ 112.9 $ 67.7 (1) Based on maturity date of swap. (2) Based on maturity date of floor. (3) Based on maturity date. (4) Based on option date of swaption. (5) Based on settlement date. (6) Based on expiration date. We use U.S. treasury futures to manage our over/under commitment position, and our position in these contracts changes daily. Debt Issued and Outstanding. As of December 31, 2001, the aggregate fair value of debt was $1,447.3 million. A 100 basis point, immediate, parallel decrease in interest rates would increase the fair value of debt by approximately $81.4 million. As of December 31, 2001 Fair Value (no accrued interest) 100 Basis +100 Basis Point Change No Change Point Change (in millions) 7.95% notes payable, due 2004............... $ 222.2 $ 216.9 $ 211.8 8.2% notes payable, due 2009................ 542.1 511.2 482.5 7.875% surplus notes payable, due 2024...... 215.7 193.9 175.4 8% surplus notes payable, due 2044.......... 108.0 95.7 85.7 Non recourse mortgages and notes payable.... 271.6 260.4 249.9 Other mortgages and notes payable........... 169.1 169.2 169.2 Total long term debt..................... $ 1,528.7 $ 1,447.3 $ 1,374.5 Equity Risk Equity risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse fluctuations in a particular common stock. As of December 31, 2001, the fair value of our equity securities was $833.6 million. A 10% decline in the value of the equity securities would result in an unrealized loss of $83.4 million. We also have indirect equity risk exposure with respect to BT Financial Group margin lending operations. Under the terms of this financing arrangement, BT Financial Group margin lending operations allow retail clients and independent financial advisors on behalf of clients, within limits approved by senior management, to borrow funds from BT Financial Group to invest in an approved list of securities and mutual fund investments which serve as security for the loan. The risk of loan default increases as the value of the underlying securities declines. This risk is actively managed through the use of margin calls on loans when the underlying securities fall below established levels. Overall, the margin lending portfolio is limited to a ratio of borrowed funds to market value of securities of an average of 60%. On November 30, 1999, BT 109 Financial Group margin lending operations securitized its margin lending portfolio with Westpac Banking Corporation, an Australian bank. Under the terms of this financing, BT Financial Group margin lending operations are required to allocate capital equal to approximately 7% of the outstanding borrowed amount, as a cushion for loan defaults. As of December 31, 2001, the margin lending portfolio was $539.5 million, or A$1,054.0 million, while the ratio of borrowed funds to market value of securities was 43%, below that of the maximum allowed. Foreign Currency Risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. This risk arises from our international operations and foreign currency denominated funding agreements issued to non qualified institutional investors in the international market. The notional amount of our currency swap agreements associated with foreign denominated liabilities as of December 31, 2001, was $3,130.9 million. We also have fixed maturity securities that are denominated in foreign currencies. However, we use derivatives to hedge the foreign currency risk, both interest payments and the final maturity payment, of these funding agreements and securities. As of December 31, 2001, the fair value of our foreign currency denominated fixed maturity securities was $304.6 million. We use currency swap agreements of the same currency to hedge the foreign currency exchange risk related to these investments. The notional amount of our currency swap agreements associated with foreign denominated fixed maturity securities as of December 31, 2001, was $296.0 million. With regard to our international operations, we attempt to do as much of our business as possible in the functional currency of the country of operation. At times, however, we are unable to do so, and in these cases, we use foreign exchange derivatives to hedge the resulting risks. Additionally, we utilize foreign currency swaps related to $665.0 million of private notes issued in connection with our acquisition of BT Financial Group. The interest payments related to these notes were serviced through operating cash flows of our Australian operations. By utilizing the foreign currency and interest rate swaps, the impact of Australian and U.S. dollar exchange rate fluctuations had a minimal effect on our ability to rely on the cash flows of our Australian operations to service the interest and principal payments related to the notes. On December 28, 2001, all of the long term debt obligations of Principal Financial Group (Australia) Holdings Pty Limited were ceased and were assumed by its parent, PFSI. We estimate that as of December 31, 2001, a 10% immediate unfavorable change in each of the foreign currency exchange rates to which we are exposed would result in no change to the net fair value of our foreign currency denominated instruments identified above, including the currency swap agreements. The selection of a 10% immediate unfavorable change in all currency exchange rates should not be construed as a prediction by us of future market events, but rather as an illustration of the potential impact of such an event. Our largest individual currency exposure is to fluctuations between the Australian dollar and the U.S. dollar. Effects of Inflation We do not believe that inflation, in the United States or in the other countries in which we operate, has had a material effect on our consolidated operations over the past five years. In the future, however, we may be affected by inflation to the extent it causes interest rates to rise. 110 
 
