ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following analysis discusses our financial condition as of December 31, 2002, compared with December 31, 2001, and our consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, and, where appropriate, factors that may affect our future financial performance. The discussion should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes to the financial statements and the other financial information included elsewhere in this Form 10 K. 29 FORWARD LOOKING INFORMATION Our narrative analysis below contains forward looking statements intended to enhance the readers ability to assess our future financial performance. Forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that represent our beliefs concerning future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments, and contain words and phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," and similar expressions. Forward looking statements are made based upon managements current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects on us. Such forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those included in the forward looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to the following: (1) a decline or increased volatility in the securities markets could result in investors withdrawing from the markets or decreasing their rates of investment, either of which could reduce our net income, revenues and assets under management; (2) our investment portfolio is subject to several risks which may diminish the value of our invested assets and affect our sales, profitability and the investment returns credited to our customers; (3) competition from companies that may have greater financial resources, broader arrays of products, higher ratings and stronger financial performance may impair our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers and maintain our profitability; (4) a downgrade in Principal Life Insurance Companys ("Principal Life") financial strength ratings may increase policy surrenders and withdrawals, reduce new sales and terminate relationships with distributors and cause some of our existing liabilities to be subject to acceleration, additional collateral support, changes in terms, or creation of additional financial obligations; (5) our efforts to reduce the impact of interest rate changes on our profitability and surplus may not be effective; (6) if we are unable to attract and retain sales representatives and develop new distribution sources, sales of our products and services may be reduced; (7) our international businesses face political, legal, operational and other risks that could reduce our profitability in those businesses; (8) our reserves established for future policy benefits and claims may prove inadequate, requiring us to increase liabilities; (9) our ability to pay stockholder dividends and meet our obligations may be constrained by the limitations on dividends Iowa insurance laws impose on Principal Life; (10) we may need to fund deficiencies in our closed block ("Closed Block") assets which benefit only the holders of Closed Block policies; (11) changes in regulations or accounting standards may reduce our profitability; (12) litigation and regulatory investigations may harm our financial strength and reduce our profitability; (13) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could reduce our profitability; (14) a challenge to the Insurance Commissioner of the State of Iowas approval of the plan of conversion could put the terms of our demutualization in question and reduce the market price of our common stock; (15) applicable laws and our stockholder rights plan, certificate of incorporation and by laws may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider in their best interests; and (16) a downgrade in our debt ratings may adversely affect our ability to secure funds and cause some of our existing liabilities to be subject to acceleration, additional collateral support, changes in terms, or creation of additional financial obligations. OVERVIEW We are a leading provider of retirement savings, investment and insurance products and services. We have four operating segments: o U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation, which consists of our asset accumulation operations which provide products and services, including retirement savings and related investment products and services, and our asset management operations conducted through Principal Global Investors, formerly known as Principal Capital Management. We provide a comprehensive portfolio of asset accumulation products and services to businesses and individuals in the U.S., with a concentration on small and medium sized businesses, which we define as businesses with fewer than 1,000 employees. We offer to businesses products and services for defined contribution pension plans, including 401(k) and 403(b) plans, defined benefit pension plans and non qualified executive benefit plans. We also offer annuities, mutual funds and bank products and services to the employees of our business customers and other individuals. 30 o International Asset Management and Accumulation, which consists of Principal International, offers retirement products and services, annuities, long term mutual funds and life insurance through subsidiaries in Argentina, Chile, Mexico and Hong Kong and joint ventures in Brazil, Japan, India and Malaysia. Prior to October 31, 2002, the operating segment included BT Financial Group, an Australia based asset manager. We sold substantially all of BT Financial Group, effective October 31, 2002. See "Transactions Affecting Comparability of Results of Operations." o Life and Health Insurance, which provides life insurance, health insurance as well as disability insurance throughout the U.S. Our life insurance products include universal and variable universal life, traditional life, and group life. Our health insurance products include medical insurance, dental and vision insurance, and administrative services. Our disability insurance products include individual and group disability insurance. o Mortgage Banking, which engages in originating, purchasing, selling and servicing residential mortgage loans in the U.S. We also have a Corporate and Other segment which consists of the assets and activities that have not been allocated to any other segment. PROFITABILITY Our profitability depends in large part upon our: o amount of assets under management; o spreads we earn on our policyholders general account balances; o ability to generate fee revenues greater than the amount it costs us to administer pension products, manage investments for retail and institutional clients and provide other administrative services; o ability to price our life and health insurance products at a level that enables us to earn a margin over the cost of providing benefits and the expense of acquiring and administering those products, which is primarily a function of competitive conditions, persistency, our ability to assess and manage trends in mortality and morbidity experience, our ability to generate investment earnings and our ability to maintain expenses in accordance with pricing assumptions; o ability to effectively monitor and price residential mortgage loans we originate, purchase, and sell and to manage the expenses we incur in servicing residential mortgage loans; o ability to effectively hedge the effect of interest rate changes on our residential mortgage servicing rights; o ability to manage our investment portfolio to maximize investment returns and minimize risks such as interest rate changes or defaults or impairments of invested assets; o ability to effectively hedge fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates; and o ability to manage our operating expenses. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES The increasing complexity of the business environment and applicable authoritative accounting guidance requires us to closely monitor our accounting policies. We have identified three critical accounting policies that are complex and require significant judgment. A summary of our critical accounting policies is intended to enhance the readers ability to assess our financial condition and results of operations and the potential volatility due to changes in estimates and changes in guidance. 31 VALUATION OF INVESTED ASSETS VALUATION POLICIES. We classify our investments into one of three categories: held to maturity, available for sale or trading. We determine the appropriate classification of fixed maturity securities at the time of purchase. Fixed maturity securities include bonds, mortgage backed securities and redeemable preferred stock. We classify our fixed maturity securities as either available for sale or trading and, accordingly, carry them at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses related to available for sale securities are reflected in stockholders equity net of related deferred policy acquisition costs and applicable taxes. Unrealized gains and losses related to trading securities are reflected in net income as net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses). The cost of fixed maturity securities is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accrual of discounts, both computed using the interest method. The cost of fixed maturity securities is adjusted for declines in value that are other than temporary. Impairments in value deemed to be other than temporary are reported in net income as a component of net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses). For loan backed and structured securities, we recognize income using a constant effective yield based on currently anticipated prepayments as determined by broker dealer surveys or internal estimates and the estimated lives of the securities. Equity securities include mutual funds, common stock and non redeemable preferred stock. The cost of equity securities is adjusted for declines in value that are other than temporary. Impairments in value deemed to be other than temporary are reported in net income as a component of net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses). Equity securities are classified as available for sale and, accordingly, are carried at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses related to available for sale securities are reflected in stockholders equity net of related deferred policy acquisition costs and applicable taxes. Real estate investments are reported at cost less accumulated depreciation. The initial cost bases of properties acquired through loan foreclosures are the lower of the fair market values of the properties at the time of foreclosure or the outstanding loan balance. Buildings and land improvements are generally depreciated on the straight line method over the estimated useful life of improvements, and tenant improvement costs are depreciated on the straight line method over the term of the related lease. We recognize impairment losses for our properties when indicators of impairment are present and a propertys expected undiscounted cash flows are not sufficient to recover the propertys carrying value. In such cases, the cost bases of the properties are reduced to fair value. Real estate expected to be disposed is carried at the lower of cost or fair value, less cost to sell, with valuation allowances established accordingly and depreciation no longer recognized. Any impairment losses and any changes in valuation allowances are reported in net income as net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses). Commercial and residential mortgage loans are generally reported at cost adjusted for amortization of premiums and accrual of discounts, computed using the interest method, and net of valuation allowances. Residential mortgage loans held for sale and commercial mortgage loans held for sale are carried at lower of cost or fair value, less cost to sell, and reported as mortgage loans in the statements of financial position. Mortgage loans on real estate are considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to contractual terms of the loan agreement. When we determine that a loan is impaired, a provision for loss is established for the difference between the carrying amount of the mortgage loan and the estimated value. Estimated value is based on either the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at the loans effective interest rate, the loans observable market price or fair value of the collateral. The provision for losses is reported as a net realized/unrealized capital loss on our consolidated statements of operations. Mortgage loans deemed to be uncollectible are charged against the allowance for losses, and subsequent recoveries are credited to the allowance for losses. The allowance for losses is maintained at a level believed adequate by us to absorb estimated probable credit losses. Our periodic evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for losses is based on our past loan loss experience, known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrowers ability to repay, the estimated value of the underlying collateral, composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and other relevant factors. The evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires estimating the amounts and timing of future cash flows expected to be received on impaired loans that may change. 32 We sell commercial mortgage loans to an unconsolidated qualified special purpose entity which then issues mortgage backed securities. We may retain immaterial interests in the loans by purchasing portions of the securities from the issuance. Gain or loss on the sales of the mortgages is reported as fees and other revenues and depends in part on the previous carrying amounts of the financial assets involved in the transfer, which is allocated between the assets sold and the retained interests based on their relative fair value at the date of transfer. Fair values are determined by quoted market prices of external buyers of each class of security purchased. The retained interests are thereafter carried at fair value with other fixed maturity investments and classified as available for sale. We also sell residential mortgage loans and retain servicing rights which are retained interests in the sold loans. Gain or loss on the sales of the loans is reported as fees and other revenues and depends in part on the previous carrying amounts of the loans sold and the interests retained based on their relative fair values at the date of the transfer. To obtain fair values, quoted market prices are used if available. However, quotes are generally not available for retained interests, so we estimate fair value based on the present value of the future expected cash flows using our best estimates of assumptions we believe market participants would use to value such interests. Corporate private placement bonds represent a primary area of credit risk exposure. The corporate private placement bond portfolio is diversified by issuer and industry. We monitor the restrictive bond covenants which are intended to regulate the activities of issuers and control their leveraging capabilities. VALUATION MODELS AND ASSUMPTIONS. Since many of the fixed maturity securities that we invest in are private market assets, there are not readily available market quotes available to determine the fair market value of these assets. These assets are valued by discounting future cash flows. The discount rate is based on a Treasury curve sourced from Bloomberg, credit spreads provided by Capital Management Sciences, and a liquidity spread add on determined by us. The spreads used are unique by credit rating for each asset. We also determine the credit ratings used in the process. We must also determine the fair value of our non exchange traded derivative contracts. Many of these values are calculated via models built in Bloomberg and are validated by confirmations with the counterparties and our valuation model. Assumptions including prepayment speeds, defaults, and losses are used in the assessment of both the base case and subsequent testing of yields and valuations of asset backed securities and commercial mortgage backed securities. The assessment of the other than temporary losses and write downs of invested assets (private bonds, mortgages, and real estate) also involves significant judgment. Both the recognition of a triggering event (timing) and the market value of private assets involves subjective assessments by us. In addition, the determination of the calculation and the adequacy of the mortgage loan reserve are also subjective. Our assessment of the adequacy of this reserve is based on our past experience, known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect a borrowers ability to repay, the estimated value of the underlying security, composition of the portfolio, and current economic conditions. INSURANCE RESERVES AND DEFERRED POLICY ACQUISITION COSTS INSURANCE RESERVES. Contractholder and policyholder liabilities (contractholder funds, future policy benefits and claims and other policyholder funds) include reserves for investment contracts and reserves for universal life, limited payment, participating and traditional life insurance policies. Investment contracts are contractholders funds on deposit with us and generally include reserves for pension and annuity contracts. Reserves on investment contracts are equal to the cumulative deposits less any applicable charges plus credited interest. Reserves for universal life insurance contracts are equal to cumulative premiums less charges plus credited interest which represents the account balances that accrue to the benefit of the policyholders. Reserves for non participating term 33 life insurance contracts are computed on a basis of assumed investment yield, mortality, morbidity and expenses, including a provision for adverse deviation, which generally varies by plan, year of issue and policy duration. Investment yield is based on our experience. Mortality, morbidity and withdrawal rate assumptions are based on our experience and are periodically reviewed against both industry standards and experience. Reserves for participating life insurance contracts are based on the net level premium reserve for death and endowment policy benefits. This net level premium reserve is calculated based on dividend fund interest rate and mortality rates guaranteed in calculating the cash surrender values described in the contract. The amount of dividends to policyholders is approved annually by Principal Lifes board of directors. The amount of dividends to be paid to policyholders is determined after consideration of several factors including interest, mortality, morbidity and other expense experience for the year and judgment as to the appropriate level of statutory surplus to be retained by Principal Life. At the end of the reporting period, Principal Life establishes a dividend liability for the pro rata portion of the dividends expected to be paid on or before the next policy anniversary date. Some of our policies and contracts require payment of fees in advance for services that will be rendered over the estimated lives of the policies and contracts. These payments are established as unearned revenue reserves upon receipt and included in other policyholder funds in the consolidated statements of financial position. These unearned revenue reserves are amortized to operations over the estimated lives of these policies and contracts in relation to the emergence of estimated gross profit margins. The liability for unpaid accident and health claims is an estimate of the ultimate net cost of reported and unreported losses not yet settled. This liability is estimated using actuarial analyses and case basis evaluations. Although considerable variability is inherent in such estimates, we believe that the liability for unpaid claims is adequate. These estimates are continually reviewed and, as adjustments to this liability become necessary, such adjustments are reflected in current operations. Reserves are liabilities representing estimates of the amounts that will come due, at some point in our future, to our contractholders. The methods of establishing reserves are prescribed by U.S. GAAP, allowing for some degree of managerial judgment. As a basis for making management decisions, we conduct studies of our experience: mortality, morbidity, investment and expense. We compare our results to that of the industry to ensure actuarial credibility. Once this information is gathered, following common industry practices, the reserves are set. Our reserve levels are reviewed throughout the year using internal analysis, the annual audit, and statutory asset adequacy analysis. To the extent experience indicates a potential redundancy/deficiency, reserves would be released/increased. DEFERRED POLICY ACQUISITION COSTS. Commissions and other costs (underwriting, issuance and agency expenses and first year bonus interest) that vary with and are primarily related to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance policies and investment contract business are capitalized to the extent recoverable. Maintenance costs and acquisition costs that are not deferrable are charged to operations as incurred. Deferred policy acquisition costs for universal life type insurance contracts and participating life insurance policies and investment contracts are being amortized over the lives of the policies and contracts in relation to the emergence of estimated gross profit margins. This amortization is adjusted retrospectively when estimates of current or future gross profits and margins to be realized from a group of products and contracts are revised. The deferred policy acquisition costs of non participating term life insurance policies are being amortized over the premium paying period of the related policies using assumptions consistent with those used in computing policyholder liabilities. Deferred policy acquisition costs are subject to recoverability testing at the time of policy issue and loss recognition testing at the end of each accounting period. Deferred policy acquisition costs would be written off to the extent that it is determined that future policy premiums and investment income or gross profit margins would not be adequate to cover related losses and expenses. 34 Excluding non participating term life insurance policies, the deferred policy acquisition cost asset is amortized in relation to the gross profits of the underlying policies, over the expected lifetime of these policies. At issue, the pattern of expected gross profits is established based on our expectation of future profit margins. These profit margins contain assumptions relating to mortality, morbidity, investment yield and expenses. As actual experience emerges, the profit margins may vary from those expected either in magnitude or timing. For our universal life and investment contracts, we are required by accounting practice to reflect the actual gross profits of the underlying policies. In addition, we are required to revise our assumptions regarding future experience as soon as the current assumptions become no longer actuarially credible. Both actions, reflecting actual experience and changing future estimates, can cause changes in the amount of the asset and the pattern of future amortization. MORTGAGE LOAN SERVICING RIGHTS Mortgage loan servicing rights represent the cost of purchasing or originating the right to receive cash flows from servicing mortgage loans. Servicing rights are recorded at the time of sale of the underlying mortgage loans where the servicing is retained. The total cost of the mortgage loans, which includes the cost to acquire the servicing rights, is allocated to the mortgage loans and the servicing rights based on their relative fair values at the date of sale. Cost basis also includes adjustments resulting from the application of hedge accounting. Capitalized servicing rights are carried at the lower of cost or market value. The capitalized value is amortized in proportion to, and over the period of, estimated net servicing income. Capitalized mortgage loan servicing rights are periodically assessed for impairment based on the estimated fair value of those rights. Fair values are estimated using estimates of discounted future net cash flows over the expected life using loan prepayment, discount rate, ancillary fee income and other economic factors we believe market participants would use to value such assets. For purposes of performing our impairment evaluation, we stratify the servicing portfolio on the basis of certain predominant risk characteristics, including loan type and note rate. To the extent that the carrying value of the servicing rights exceeds fair value for any stratum, a valuation allowance is established, which may be adjusted in the future as the value of the servicing rights increase or decrease. This valuation allowance is recognized in the consolidated statements of operations during the period in which impairment occurs. We must exercise certain judgments and make estimates in the application of this policy. We have some discretion in determining interest rate assumptions to use in its estimates, but we are guided by the benchmark curve of LIBOR/Swap term structure, the volatility of interest rates derived from historical volatility in LIBOR/Swap rates, and the addition of mortgage spread to the modeled 10 year swap rate to derive the mortgage refinancing rate. We develop prepayment models internally by examining the historical prepayment experience of our portfolio, given the historical interest rate environment. Servicing cost assumptions are derived from budgeted costs, interest differential, and foreclosure losses based on historical evidence, and amortization based on expected non discounted cash flows. Servicing revenue assumptions are derived from historical experience and include principal and interest float, escrow float, prepayment float, late charges collected, and ancillary income. TRANSACTIONS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ACQUISITIONS We acquired the following businesses, among others, during the past three years: AFORE TEPEYAC S.A. DE C.V. On November 8, 2002, we signed an agreement to acquire AFORE Tepeyac S.A. de C.V. in Mexico from Mapfre American Vida, Caja Madrid and Mapfre Tepeyac for MX$590.0 million Mexican Pesos ("MX$")(approximately U.S. $58.0 million). We expect this transaction to be completed in the first half of 2003 when the operations will be integrated into Principal International, Inc., as a part of our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment. 35 ZURICH AFORE S.A. DE C.V. On May 31, 2002, we purchased a 100% ownership of Zurich AFORE S.A. de C.V. ("Zurich AFORE") in Mexico from Zurich Financial Services for MX$480.5 million (approximately U.S. $49.0 million). The operations of Zurich AFORE have been integrated into Principal International, Inc., as a part of our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment. SPECTRUM ASSET MANAGEMENT. On October 1, 2001, Spectrum Asset Management ("Spectrum") became an affiliate of Principal Global Investors. The acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method and the results of operations of the acquired business have been included in our financial statements from the date of acquisition. In October 2002, we purchased the remaining 20% of Spectrum. We included revenues of $5.9 million and $0.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, in our consolidated results of operations. DISPOSITIONS We entered into disposition agreements or disposed of the following businesses, among others, during the past three years: BT FINANCIAL GROUP. On October 31, 2002, we sold substantially all of BT Financial Group to Westpac Banking Corporation ("Westpac") for proceeds of A$900.0 million Australian dollars ("A$") (U.S. $499.4 million), and future contingent proceeds in 2004 of up to A$150.0 million (approximately U.S. $80.0 million). The contingent proceeds will be based on Westpacs future success in growing retail funds under management. Excluding contingent proceeds, our estimated after tax proceeds from the sale are expected to be approximately U.S. $938.4 million. This amount includes cash proceeds, expected tax benefits, and gain from unwinding the hedged asset associated with debt used to acquire BT Financial Group in 1999. We have accrued for an estimated after tax loss on disposal of $208.7 million as of December 31, 2002. This loss is recorded in the loss from discontinued operations in the consolidated statement of operations. Future adjustments to the estimated loss are expected to be recorded through the first half of 2003, as the proceeds from the sale are finalized. BT Financial Group is accounted for as a discontinued operation and therefore, the results of operations (excluding corporate overhead) and cash flows have been removed from our results of continuing operations for all periods presented. Corporate overhead allocated to BT Financial Group does not qualify for discontinued operations treatment under SFAS 144, ACCOUNTING FOR THE IMPAIRMENT OR DISPOSAL OF LONG LIVED ASSETS, and therefore is still included in the our results of continuing operations. Assets and liabilities related to BT Financial Group have been reclassified to assets of discontinued operations and liabilities of discontinued operations on our consolidated statements of financial position for all periods presented. Additionally, the results of operations (excluding corporate overhead) for BT Financial Group are reported as non recurring items in our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment. Selected financial information for the discontinued operations is as follows: 36 FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 2000 (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT AS INDICATED) Total assets under management ($ in billions)....................$ $ 21.6 $ 25.4 Total revenues ....................$ 139.7 $ 220.9 $ 285.5 Loss from continuing operations corporate overhead) ..............$ (2.6) $ (3.6) $ (2.0) Income (loss) from discontinued operations: Income (loss) before income taxes.. 17.7 (15.6) 20.2 Income taxes (benefits)............ 5.7 (4.4) 11.7 Income (loss) from discontinued operations........................ 12.0 (11.2) 8.5 Income (loss) on disposal, net of related income taxes.............. (208.7) Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of related income taxes............................. (196.7) (11.2) 8.5 Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of related income taxes............................. (255.4) Net income (loss)..................$(454.7) $ (14.8) $ 6.5 COVENTRY HEALTH CARE. On February 1, 2002, we sold our remaining stake of 15.1 million shares of Coventry Health Care, Inc. ("Coventry") common stock and a warrant, exercisable for 3.1 million shares of Coventry common stock. We received proceeds of $325.4 million, resulting in a net realized capital gain of $183.0 million, or $114.5 million net of income taxes. We reported our investment in Coventry in our Corporate and Other segment and accounted for it using the equity method prior to its sale. Our share of Coventrys net income was $2.1 million, $20.2 million and $20.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. PT ASURANSI JIWA PRINCIPAL INDONESIA. On September 25, 2001, we disposed of all the stock of PT Asuransi Jiwa Principal Indonesia, our subsidiary in Indonesia. We currently have no business operations in Indonesia. We received nominal proceeds, which resulted in a realized capital loss of $6.7 million. We included nominal revenues and net loss from our operations in Indonesia in our consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000. PRINCIPAL INTERNATIONAL ESPANA, S.A. DE SEGUROS DE VIDA. On February 15, 2001, we disposed of all of the stock of Principal International Espana, S.A. de Seguros de Vida, our subsidiary in Spain, for nominal proceeds, resulting in a realized capital loss of $38.4 million, or $21.0 million net of income tax, ceasing our business operations in Spain. We did not include revenues or net income from our operations in Spain in our consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. We included revenues of $49.4 million and net loss of $1.2 million from our operations in Spain in our consolidated results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2000. OTHER TRANSACTIONS 37 SALE OF RETAIL MORTGAGE LENDING BRANCH OFFICES. On January 29, 2003, Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. ("Principal Residential Mortgage"), announced the decision to focus its retail consumer loan origination business within its Mortgage Direct operation, which originates loans across the nation via phone and online. The company will also continue to concentrate on growing its Correspondent Lending, Wholesale and Servicing businesses. On February 5, 2003, Principal Residential Mortgage announced it had signed a definitive agreement to sell the retail mortgage lending branches to American Home Mortgage, Inc. ("American Home Mortgage"), an independent retail mortgage banking company. American Home Mortgage will pay Principal Residential Mortgage a guaranteed profit margin on its current application pipeline, purchase the assets of the branch network and assume related liabilities. The sale is expected to close in the first quarter of 2003, pending regulatory approvals and other normal closing conditions. KEYCORP. On June 12, 2002, we announced we had entered into an agreement with KeyCorp (through affiliates Victory Capital Management and KeyBank National Association) to offer transition of servicing of KeyCorps 1,400 employer defined contribution clients with up to $8.0 billion in assets under management. KeyCorp transitioned out of the bundled defined contribution business and will recommend our servicing to its full service defined contribution clients nationwide. MEDICARE SUPPLEMENT REINSURANCE TRANSACTION. Effective July 1, 2000, we entered into a reinsurance agreement with General & Cologne Life Re of America to reinsure 100% of our Medicare supplement insurance business. Medicare supplement insurance premiums were $98.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. FLUCTUATIONS IN FOREIGN CURRENCY TO U.S. DOLLAR EXCHANGE RATES Fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates for countries in which we have operations can affect reported financial results. In years when foreign currencies weaken against the U.S. dollar, translating foreign currencies into U.S. dollars results in fewer U.S. dollars to be reported. When foreign currencies strengthen, translating foreign currencies into U.S. dollars results in more U.S. dollars to be reported. In January 2002, the Argentine government ended its tie of the Argentine peso to the U.S. dollar, creating a dual currency system with an official fixed exchange rate of 1.4 pesos to 1.0 U.S. dollar for import and export transactions and a "free" floating exchange rate for other transactions, subsequently floating the Argentine peso in February. The devaluation did not materially impact our consolidated results of operations. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations create variances in our financial statement line items but have not had a material impact on our consolidated operating earnings and net income. Our consolidated operating earnings were negatively impacted $4.1 million and $1.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 and positively impacted $0.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2000, respectively, as a result of fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates. For a discussion of our approaches to foreign currency exchange rate risk, see Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk." DEMUTUALIZATION AND INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING Effective October 26, 2001, Principal Mutual Holding Company converted from a mutual insurance holding company to a stock company. All membership interests in Principal Mutual Holding Company were extinguished on that date and eligible policyholders received, in aggregate, 260.8 million shares of common stock, $1,177.5 million of cash and $472.6 million of policy credits as compensation. In addition, on October 26, 2001, we completed our initial public offering ("IPO") in which we issued 100.0 million shares of common stock at a price of $18.50 per share, prior to the underwriters exercise of the overallotment option. Net proceeds from the IPO were $1,753.9 million, of which $64.2 million 38 was retained by Principal Financial Group, Inc., and $1,689.7 million was contributed to Principal Life. Proceeds were net of offering costs of $96.5 million and a related tax benefit of $0.4 million. Costs relating to the demutualization, excluding costs relating to the IPO were $2.0 million, $18.6 million and $7.2 million, net of income taxes, in 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. Demutualization expenses consist primarily of printing and mailing costs and our aggregate cost of engaging independent accounting, actuarial, financial, investment banking, legal and other consultants to advise us on the demutualization. In addition, our costs include the costs of the advisors of the Insurance Commissioner of the State of Iowa and the New York State Insurance Department, other regulatory authorities and internal allocated costs for staff and related costs associated with the demutualization. PENSION EXPENSE The 2003 pension expense for substantially all of our employees and certain agents is expected to be approximately $60.2 million. This is an increase of $53.7 million over the 2002 pension expense of $6.5 million. This increase is primarily due to the impact of low interest rates and the equity market downturn. The discount rate used to value the liabilities was lowered to 6.5% from the 2002 discount rate of 7.5% and the return on assets assumption was lowered to 8.5% from the 2002 return on assets assumption of 9.0%. RECENT ACCOUNTING CHANGES The Derivative Implementation Group has recently released Statement 133 Implementation Issue No. 36, "Embedded Derivatives: Bifurcation of a Debt Instrument that Incorporates Both Interest Rate Risk and Credit Rate Risk Exposures that are Unrelated or Only Partially Related to the Creditworthiness of the Issuer of that Instrument" ("DIG B36"). DIG B36 addresses whether SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities ("SFAS 133") requires bifurcation of a debt instrument into a debt host contract and an embedded derivative if the debt instrument incorporates both interest rate risk and credit risk exposures that are unrelated or only partially related to the creditworthiness of the issuer of that instrument. DIG 36 has been exposed for comment by the FASB. It is not expected to be finalized by the FASB until sometime in the second quarter of 2003. We are currently reviewing our contracts and assessing the impact of the emerging guidance. We do not anticipate that this will result in a material impact to our financial results, financial position or cash flows. In January 2003, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities ("FIN 46"), which provides guidance related to identifying variable interest entities and determining whether such entities should be consolidated. FIN 46 is effective immediately for variable interest entities created after January 31, 2003 and effective 3rd quarter 2003 for any variable interest entities existing on or before January 31, 2003. We have initiated an assessment and are currently evaluating interests in entities that may be considered variable interest entities. We have currently identified one variable interest entity, which meets the definition of FIN 46 and was created before January 31, 2003. The impact would be the consolidation of $4.1 billion in assets and $4.1 billion of liabilities, unless the current structure is modified. The ultimate impact of adopting FIN 46 on the consolidated financial statements is still being reviewed. In November 2002, the FASB issued Interpretation No. 45, Guarantors Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others ("FIN 45") which requires certain guarantees to be recorded at fair value instead of when a loss is probable and reasonably estimated. FIN 45 also requires disclosures even when the likelihood of making any payments under the guarantee is remote. Although liability recognition only applies to guarantees issued or amended after January 1, 2003, disclosure requirements are effective for year end 2002. See "Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 14, Commitments and Contingencies." 39 RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table presents summary consolidated financial information for the years indicated: FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 2000 INCOME STATEMENT DATA: (IN MILLIONS) Revenues: Premiums and other considerations...$ 3,881.8 $ 4,122.3 $ 3,996.4 Fees and other revenues............. 1,990.8 1,600.7 1,300.6 Net investment income............... 3,304.7 3,383.6 3,157.6 Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses).................... (354.8) (514.0) 139.6 Total revenues....................... 8,822.5 8,592.6 8,594.2 Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses.......................... 5,216.9 5,482.1 5,232.3 Dividends to policyholders.......... 316.6 313.7 312.7 Operating expenses.................. 2,623.2 2,332.7 2,209.0 Total expenses........................ 8,156.7 8,128.5 7,754.0 Income from continuing operations before income taxes.............. 665.8 464.1 840.2 Income taxes.......................... 45.9 83.4 228.5 Income from continuing operations, net of related income taxes......... 619.9 380.7 611.7 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of related income taxes............................. (196.7) (11.2) 8.5 Income before cumulative effect of accounting changes................ 423.2 369.5 620.2 Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of related income taxes............................. (280.9) (10.7) Net income..........................$ 142.3 $ 358.8 $ 620.2 OTHER DATA: Net income............................$ 142.3 $ 358.8 $ 620.2 Less: Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses), as adjusted....................... (243.9) (321.0) 93.0 Non recurring items................ (363.2) (42.3) (92.5) Operating earnings....................$ 749.4 $ 722.1 $ 619.7 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 Premiums and other considerations decreased $240.5 million, or 6%, to $3,881.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $4,122.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The decrease reflected a $183.0 million decrease from the International Asset Management and Accumulation segment primarily resulting from decreased sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies due to the sale of a large group annuity contract in 2001 and to a lesser extent, prolonged government retention of potential annuitants in 2002 in Mexico. In addition, the decrease reflected a $37.7 million decrease from the Life and Health Insurance segment, primarily related to the reclassification of revenues from our group universal life insurance product from premiums to fee revenues and the shift in customer preference from individual traditional life insurance products to individual universal and variable universal life insurance products, partially offset by strong disability insurance sales in 2002. The decrease also reflected a $19.8 million decrease from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily a result of a decrease in premiums from single premium group annuities with life contingencies, which are typically used to fund defined benefit pension plan terminations. The premium income we receive from these contracts fluctuates due to the variability in the number and size of pension plan terminations in the market, the interest rate environment and our ability to attract new sales. Fees and other revenues increased $390.1 million, or 24%, to $1,990.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $1,600.7 million for the year ended 40 December 31, 2001. The increase was primarily due to a $326.9 million increase from the Mortgage Banking segment primarily resulting from mortgage loan production fee revenues, reflecting the increase in mortgage loan production volume. The increase was also due to a $56.5 million increase from the Life and Health Insurance segment, primarily related to the reclassification of revenues from our group universal life insurance product and growth in our individual universal and variable universal life insurance business. The increase also related to a $15.7 million increase from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment primarily related to higher fee income from improved cash flows and a reduction in losses from market value fee adjustments on our participating business from pension products. In addition, the increases reflected a $10.3 million increase from the International Asset Management and Accumulation segment primarily as a result of an increase in the number of retirement plan participants due to the acquisition of Zurich AFORE in Mexico. Net investment income decreased $78.9 million, or 2%, to $3,304.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $3,383.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The decrease was primarily related to a decrease in investment yields. The yield on average invested assets and cash was 6.9% for the year ended December 31, 2002, compared to 7.7% for the year ended December 31, 2001. This reflects a decrease in investment gains on real estate due to lower sales of certain real estate held for sale, compared to an unusually high volume of sales during 2001. In addition, the decrease reflects lower average investment yields due in part to a lower interest rate environment and to a lesser extent, due to a decrease in commercial mortgage loan prepayment fee income. The decrease was partially offset by a $3,565.1 million, or 8%, increase in average invested assets and cash. Net realized/unrealized capital losses decreased $159.2 million, or 31%, to $354.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $514.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The decrease was due to the $183.0 million capital gain realized as the result of the sale of our investment in Coventry in February 2002 and the $38.4 million loss on the sale of our operations in Spain in 2001, a $79.7 million decrease in losses on fixed maturity securities sales, and a $58.5 million decrease in losses on equity securities sales. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $109.9 million in other than temporary impairments of fixed maturity securities, a $19.7 million increase in the other than temporary declines in the value of equity securities, an increase of $54.1 million in mark to market losses on certain seed money investments, and an increase of $28.0 million in losses on derivatives. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $265.2 million, or 5%, to $5,216.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $5,482.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The decrease was partially due to a $149.5 million decrease from the International Asset Management and Accumulation segment due to higher reserve changes and policy and contract benefit payments recognized in 2001 due to the sale of a large group annuity contract, and to a lesser extent, prolonged government retention of potential annuitants in 2002 in Mexico. The decrease was also due to a $57.6 million decrease from the Life and Health Insurance segment, primarily due to amounts received from a reinsurer and lower death claims. In addition, the decrease was due to a $52.8 million decrease from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily reflecting a decrease in interest credited to customers and a decrease in sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies. Dividends to policyholders increased $2.9 million to $316.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $313.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The increase was attributable to a $2.9 million increase from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment, resulting from an increase in dividends for our pension full service accumulation products. Operating expenses increased $290.5 million, or 12%, to $2,623.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $2,332.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The increase was largely due to a $355.9 million increase from the Mortgage Banking segment primarily resulting from growth in the mortgage loan servicing portfolio, an increase in impairment of capitalized mortgage servicing rights net of servicing hedge activity and an increase in the mortgage loan production volume. The increase was partially offset by a $43.1 million decrease from the Corporate and Other segment, primarily due to expenses recognized in 2001 related to our demutualization, federal income tax interest related to the settlement of an IRS audit issue in 2002, offset partially by an increase to a loss contingency reserve established for sales practices litigation in 2002. In addition, the increases were partially offset by a $13.7 million decrease from 41 the International Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily related to the weakening of the Argentine peso versus the U.S. dollar and of the general economic environment in Argentina. A decrease of $10.4 million from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment primarily reflected operational efficiencies including lower staffing levels and an increase in capitalization of deferred policy acquisition costs ("DPAC") from increased sales of selected pension products. Income taxes decreased $37.5 million, or 45%, to $45.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $83.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The effective income tax rate was 7% for the year ended December 31, 2002, and 18% for the year ended December 31, 2001. The effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 were lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35% primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received. Our effective income tax rate was also reduced in 2001 due to additional tax benefits related to excess tax over book capital losses realized from the sales of our operations in Spain and Indonesia. The effective tax rate decreased to 7% in 2002 from 18% in 2001 primarily due to the favorable settlement of an IRS audit issue in 2002. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of loss from discontinued operations and the cumulative effect of accounting changes, net of related income taxes, net income decreased $216.5 million, or 60%, to $142.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $358.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The loss from discontinued operations was related to our sale of BT Financial Group. The cumulative effect of accounting changes were related to our implementation of SFAS No. 142, GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS ("SFAS 142") in 2002 and SFAS 133 in 2001. For the year ended December 31, 2002, non recurring items of $363.2 million, net of income taxes, included (1) the negative effects of: (a) a cumulative effect of accounting change related to our implementation of SFAS 142 ($280.9 million); (b) the loss on discontinued operations of BT Financial Group ($196.7 million); (c) an increase to a loss contingency reserve established for sales practices litigation ($21.6 million); and (d) expenses related to our demutualization ($2.0 million) and (2) the positive effect of the settlement of an IRS audit issue ($138.0 million). For the year ended December 31, 2001, non recurring items of $42.3 million, net of income taxes, included (1) the negative effects of: (a) expenses related to our demutualization ($18.6 million); (b) the loss from discontinued operations of BT Financial Group ($11.2 million); (c) a cumulative effect of accounting change related to our implementation of SFAS 133 ($10.7 million); and (d) an increase to a loss contingency reserve established for sales practices litigation ($5.9 million) and (2) the positive effect of investment income generated from the proceeds of our IPO ($4.1 million). As a result of the foregoing factors and the exclusion of net realized/unrealized capital losses, as adjusted and nonrecurring items, operating earnings increased $27.3 million, or 4%, to $749.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $722.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The increase resulted from a $31.9 million increase from the Life and Health Insurance segment, primarily a result of improved medical and dental loss ratios. The increase was also due to a $17.2 million increase from the International Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily related to improved earnings of Principal International. In addition, the increase was due to a $17.1 million increase from the U.S Asset Management and Accumulation segment primarily reflecting higher fees from improved cash flows and a decrease in expenses resulting from a decrease in interest credited to customers. An increase of $16.2 million from the Mortgage Banking segment was primarily due to an increase in mortgage loan production volume. The increases were partially offset by a $55.1 million decrease from the Corporate and Other segment, primarily related to a decrease in investment gains on real estate due to lower sales of certain real estate held for sale, compared to an unusually high volume of sales experienced in 2001 and due to a decrease of average investment yields for the segment. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000 Premiums and other considerations increased $125.9 million, or 3%, to $4,122.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $3,996.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The increase reflected a $240.9 million increase from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily a result of an 42 increase in premiums from single premium group annuities with life contingencies, which are typically used to fund defined benefit pension plan terminations. The premium income we receive from these contracts fluctuates due to the variability in the number and size of pension plan terminations in the market, the interest rate environment and our ability to attract new sales. In addition, a $124.4 million increase from the International Asset Management and Accumulation segment primarily resulting from increased sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies due to the sale of a large group annuity contract in Mexico. The increases were partially offset by a $239.4 million decrease from the Life and Health Insurance segment, related to our decision to reinsure 100% of our group Medicare supplement insurance business effective July 1, 2000. Life and Health Insurance segment premiums also decreased due to group medical premium rate increases in 2000, which led to increased lapses and lower sales in 2001. Fees and other revenues increased $300.1 million, or 23%, to $1,600.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $1,300.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The increase was primarily due to a $350.8 million increase from the Mortgage Banking segment primarily resulting from mortgage loan production fee revenues, reflecting the increase in mortgage loan production volume. The increase was also due to a $26.7 million increase from the Life and Health Insurance segment, primarily related to an increase in group health fee for service fee revenues, a result of growth in the business and fee rate increases, and an increase in universal and variable universal life insurance fee revenues, a result of growth in that block of business. In addition, the increase was related to a $16.6 million increase from the International Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily a result of an increase in the number of retirement plan participants in Mexico. The increases were partially offset by an $85.8 million decrease from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment primarily related to a decrease in surrender charge and market value fee adjustments from pension products, primarily due to a declining interest rate environment and a decrease in the recognition of front end fee revenues, a result of changes in assumptions consistent with unlocking of deferred policy acquisition costs in 2001. Net investment income increased $226.0 million, or 7%, to $3,383.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $3,157.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The increase was primarily a result of a $1,846.2 million, or 4%, increase in average invested assets and cash and also from an increase in investment yields, primarily resulting from our investment policy during 2000 to reposition the investment portfolio to maximize investment returns by selling lower yielding fixed income securities to allow for reinvestment in higher yielding fixed income securities. The yield on average invested assets and cash was 7.7% for the year ended December 31, 2001, compared to 7.5% for the year ended December 31, 2000. Net realized/unrealized capital losses increased $653.6 million to $514.0 million of net realized/unrealized capital losses for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $139.6 million of net realized/unrealized capital gains for the year ended December 31, 2000. Realized capital losses of $137.7 million related to sales and impairments of our investment in Enron and related entities in 2001. These entities are in the process of bankruptcy proceedings. We sold our investment in United Payors and United Providers, and realized a capital gain of $90.6 million during the year ended December 31, 2000. We realized a capital loss of $38.4 million on the sale of our operations in Spain in 2001. We realized $22.0 million in losses in our international operations from the restructuring of government bonds in Argentina and $6.7 million of realized losses in our U.S. operations related to Argentine based bonds in 2001. The decrease also related to permanent impairments of other fixed maturity and equity securities which were $152.6 million, during the year ended December 31, 2001. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $249.8 million, or 5%, to $5,482.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $5,232.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The increase was primarily due to a $272.5 million increase from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily reflecting the increase in reserves resulting from an increase in sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies. The increase was also due to a $145.3 million increase from the International Asset Management and Accumulation segment due to an increase in the change in reserves and policy and contract benefit payments, primarily the result of the sale of a large group annuity contract with life contingencies in Mexico. The increases were partially offset by a $168.4 million decrease from the Life and Health Insurance segment, due to a reduction in group medical insurance business, 43 improved group medical insurance claim experience and our decision to reinsure 100% of our group Medicare supplement insurance business effective July 1, 2000. Dividends to policyholders increased $1.0 million to $313.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $312.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The increase was attributable to a $2.1 million increase from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment, resulting from an increase in dividends for our pension full service accumulation products. The increase was offset by a $1.1 million decrease from the Life and Health Insurance segment due to a change in methodology of estimating dividends. Additionally, the dividends in the Closed Block were reduced due to accumulated experience losses. Operating expenses increased $123.7 million, or 6%, to $2,332.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $2,209.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The increase was primarily due to a $269.6 million increase from the Mortgage Banking segment primarily resulting from an impairment of mortgage loan servicing rights and, to a lesser extent, due to growth in the mortgage loan servicing portfolio and an increase in the mortgage loan production volume. The increase also reflected a $22.0 million increase from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily reflecting an increase in Principal Bank operating expenses related to growth in bank operations and an increase in Principal Global Investors operating expenses related to increases in compensation and recruiting costs and depreciation and securitization expenses. The increases were partially offset by an $89.3 million decrease from the Corporate and Other segment, primarily related to a non recurring loss contingency reserve established during the year ended December 31, 2000, for sales practices litigation. The increases were also partially offset by a $79.0 million decrease from the Life and Health Insurance segment due to our decision to reinsure 100% of our group Medicare supplement insurance business effective July 1, 2000. Income taxes decreased $145.1 million, or 64%, to $83.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $228.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The effective income tax rate was 18% for the year ended December 31, 2001, and 27% for the year ended December 31, 2000. The effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, were lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35% primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received. Our effective income tax rate was also reduced in 2001 due to additional tax benefits related to excess tax over book capital losses realized from the sales of our operations in Spain and Indonesia. The decrease in the effective tax rate to 18% in 2001 from 27% in 2000 was primarily due to the decrease in net income before income taxes relative to our permanent tax differences, which did not decrease. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of loss or income from discontinued operations and the cumulative effect of accounting change, net of related income taxes, net income decreased $261.4 million, or 42%, to $358.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $620.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The loss or income from discontinued operations was related to our sale of BT Financial Group. The cumulative effect of accounting change was related to our implementation of SFAS 133. For the year ended December 31, 2001, we excluded $42.3 million of non recurring items, net of income taxes, from net income for our presentation of consolidated operating earnings. The non recurring items included the (1) negative effects of: (a) expenses related to our demutualization ($18.6 million); (b) the loss from discontinued operations of BT Financial Group ($11.2 million); (c) a cumulative effect of change in accounting related to our implementation of SFAS 133 ($10.7 million); and (d) an increase to our loss contingency reserve for sales practices litigation ($5.9 million) and (2) the positive effect of investment income generated from the proceeds of our IPO ($4.1 million). For the year ended December 31, 2000, non recurring items of $92.5 million, net of income taxes, included the (1) negative effects of: (a) a loss contingency reserve established for sales practices litigation ($93.8 million); and (b) expenses related to our demutualization ($7.2 million) and (2) the positive effect of the income from the discontinued operations of BT Financial Group ($8.5 million). As a result of the foregoing factors and the exclusion of net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses), as adjusted and nonrecurring items, operating earnings increased $102.4 million, or 17%, to $722.1 million for the 44 year ended December 31, 2001, from $619.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The increase resulted from a $76.7 million increase from the Mortgage Banking segment, primarily due to an increase in mortgage loan production volume. The increase was also due to a $38.9 million increase from the Life and Health Insurance segment, primarily a result of individual disability insurance reserve strengthening during 2000, and improved margins on individual life insurance business resulting from higher investment yields. In addition, the increase reflects a $19.2 million increase from the International Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily related to improved earnings of Principal International. The increases were partially offset by a $29.6 million decrease from the Corporate and Other segment, primarily due to a net recovery in 2000 of previously paid interest related to a successful tax audit appeal. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BY SEGMENT We evaluate segment performance by segment operating earnings, which excludes the effect of net realized/unrealized capital gains and losses, as adjusted, and non recurring events and transactions. Segment operating earnings are determined by adjusting U.S. GAAP net income for net realized/unrealized capital gains and losses, as adjusted, and non recurring items that we believe are not indicative of overall operating trends. While these items may be significant components in understanding and assessing our consolidated financial performance, we believe the presentation of segment operating earnings enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting earnings attributable to the normal, recurring operations of our businesses. However, segment operating earnings are not a substitute for net income determined in accordance with U.S. GAAP. The following table presents segment information as of or for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000: 45 AS OF OR FOR YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 2000 (IN MILLIONS) OPERATING REVENUES BY SEGMENT: U.S. Asset Management and..............$ 3,780.5 $ 3,799.8 $ 3,533.9 Accumulation International Asset Management and Accumulation..................... 357.9 508.4 339.2 Life and Health Insurance.............. 3,946.8 3,946.4 4,122.6 Mortgage Banking....................... 1,153.0 757.4 359.8 Corporate and Other(1)................. (15.1) 101.7 98.2 Total operating revenues............... 9,223.1 9,113.7 8,453.7 Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses), including recognition of front end fee revenues and certain market valuue adjustments to fee revenues.................. (400.6) (527.4) 140.5 Non recurring interest income(2)....... 6.3 Total consolidated revenues......$ 8,822.5 $ 8,592.6 $ 8,594.2 OPERATING EARNINGS (LOSS) BY SEGMENT: U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation ....................$ 370.9 $ 353.8 $ 356.6 International Asset Management and Accumulation..................... 19.5 2.3 (16.9) Life and Health Insurance................ 233.1 201.2 162.3 Mortgage Banking......................... 142.9 126.7 50.0 Corporate and Other ..................... (17.0) 38.1 67.7 Total operating earnings......... 749.4 722.1 619.7 Net realized/unrealized capital gains losses as adjusted(3)............ (243.9) (321.0) 93.0 Non recurring items(4)................... (363.2) (42.3) (92.5) U.S. GAAP REPORTED: Net income.......................$ 142.3 $ 358.8 $ 620.2 U.S. GAAP REPORTED NET INCOME (LOSS) BY SEGMENT: U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation ....................$ 120.4 $ 178.3 $ 320.7 International Asset Management and Accumulation..................... (441.1) (38.1) (7.1) Life and Health Insurance................ 178.5 167.5 209.6 Mortgage Banking......................... 142.9 126.7 50.0 Corporate and Other ..................... 141.6 (75.6) 47.0 Total net income..................$ 142.3 $ 358.8 $ 620.2 TOTAL ASSETS BY SEGMENT: U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation(5).................$70,371.9 $68,543.8 $65,795.9 International Asset Management and Accumulation..................... 2,202.5 4,956.9 5,525.9 Life and Health Insurance................ 11,356.3 10,776.2 10,569.0 Mortgage Banking......................... 3,740.1 2,718.8 1,556.3 Corporate and Other(6)................... 2,190.5 1,354.8 957.8 Total assets.....................$89,861.3 $88,350.5 $84,404.9 (1) Includes inter segment eliminations primarily related to internal investment management fee revenues, commission fee revenues paid to U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation agents for selling Life and Health Insurance segment insurance products, internal interest paid to our Mortgage Banking segment for escrow accounts deposited with our U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment and real estate joint venture rental income. In 2001, the Corporate and Other segment reported rental income from real estate joint ventures for office space used by other segments. (2) For the year ended December 31, 2001, non recurring interest income included the positive effect of investment income generated from the proceeds of our IPO. (3) Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses) include unrealized gains (losses) on mark to market changes of certain seed money investments as well as unrealized gains on certain derivatives. Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses), as adjusted, are net of income taxes, net realized capital gains distributed to customers, related changes in the amortization 46 pattern of deferred policy acquisition costs, recognition of front end fee revenues for sales charges on pension products and services and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues. FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 2000 (IN MILLIONS) Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses)..$ (354.8) $ (514.0) $ 139.6 Certain market value adjustments to fee revenues................ (31.8) (14.9) Recognition of front end fee revenues............ (14.0) 1.5 0.9 Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses), including recognition of front end fee revenues and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues................ (400.6) (527.4) 140.5 Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs related to net realized capital gains (losses)................ 35.4 18.6 (0.3) Capital gains distributed to customers............... (12.7) Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses), including recognition of front end fee revenues and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues, net of related amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and capital gains distributed to customers............... (377.9) (508.8) 140.2 Income tax effect............... 134.0 187.8 (47.2) Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses), as adjusted.....$ (243.9) $ (321.0) $ 93.0 (4) For the year ended December 31, 2002, non recurring items of $363.2 million, net of income taxes, included (1) the negative effects of: (a) a cumulative effect of accounting change related to our implementation of SFAS 142 ($280.9 million); (b) the loss on discontinued operations of BT Financial Group ($196.7 million); (c) an increase to a loss contingency reserve established for sales practices litigation ($21.6 million); and (d) expenses related to our demutualization ($2.0 million) and (2) the positive effect of the settlement of an IRS audit issue ($138.0 million). For the year ended December 31, 2001, non recurring items of $42.3 million, net of income taxes, included (1) the negative effects of: (a) expenses related to our demutualization ($18.6 million); (b) the loss on discontinued operations of BT Financial Group ($11.2 million); (c) a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle related to our implementation of SFAS 133 ($10.7 million); and (d) an increase to our loss contingency reserve for sales practices litigation ($5.9 million) and (2) the positive effect of investment income generated from the proceeds of our IPO ($4.1 million). For the year ended December 31, 2000, non recurring items of $92.5 million, net of income taxes, included (1) the negative effects of: (a) a loss contingency reserve established for sales practices litigation ($93.8 million) and (b) expenses related to our demutualization ($7.2 million) and (2) the positive effect of the income from discontinued operations of BT Financial Group ($8.5 million). (5) U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation assets increased $1.3 billion at December 31, 2001, primarily due to shares of the Principal Financial Group stock allocated to a separate account, a result of our demutualization. Activity of the separate account was reflected in both separate account assets and separate account liabilities and did not impact our results of operations. 47 (6) Includes inter segment elimination amounts related to internally generated mortgage loans and an internal line of credit. The U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment and Life and Health Insurance segment reported mortgage loan assets issued for real estate joint ventures. These mortgage loans were reported as liabilities in the Corporate and Other segment. In addition, the Corporate and Other segment managed a revolving line of credit used by other segments. U.S. ASSET MANAGEMENT AND ACCUMULATION SEGMENT ASSET ACCUMULATION TRENDS Our sales of pension and other asset accumulation products and services in the U.S. have been affected by overall trends in the U.S. retirement services industry, as our customers have begun to rely less on defined benefit retirement plans, social security and other government programs. Recent trends in the work environment include a more mobile workforce and the desire of employers to shift the market risk of retirement investments to employees by offering defined contribution plans rather than defined benefit plans. These trends are increasing the demand for defined contribution pension arrangements such as 401(k) plans, mutual funds or variable annuities. The "baby boom" generation of U.S. workers has reached an age at which saving for retirement is critical and it continues to seek tax advantaged investment products for retirement. Also, the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 had many of its provisions become effective in 2002, which increased allowed contribution limits and a number of other opportunities to save for retirement. Considering these trends, asset accumulation account values increased as of December 31, 2002, primarily due to significant additional gross new deposits and retention of assets from existing clients. The declining interest rate environment and poor performance in the equity markets in 2002 and 2001 have slowed our recent growth in asset accumulation account values. The following table provides a summary of U.S. Asset Accumulation account values as of December 31, 2002 and 2001: U.S. ASSET ACCUMULATION AS OF TOTAL ACCOUNT VALUES (IN BILLIONS) December 31, 2002 ......... $ 73.8 December 31, 2001 ......... 71.0 ASSET MANAGEMENT TRENDS Asset management services have been among the most profitable and rapidly growing sectors of the financial services industry, at both the retail and institutional level. We seek to take advantage of current trends, which indicate that both retail and institutional investors embrace specialization, providing increased fees to successful active managers with expertise in specialty and niche areas. Our U.S. third party assets under management increased $6.7 billion during 2002. The following table provides a summary of Principal Global Investors affiliated and third party assets under management as of December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000: PRINCIPAL GLOBAL INVESTORS AFFILATED THIRD PARTY ASSETS ASSETS TOTAL ASSETS UNDER UNDER UNDER AS OF MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT (IN BILLIONS) December 31, 2002 $77.7 $14.6 $92.3 December 31, 2001 77.8 7.9 85.7 December 31, 2000 76.5 6.7 83.2 U.S. ASSET MANAGEMENT AND ACCUMULATION SEGMENT SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment for the years indicated: 48 FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 2000 (IN MILLIONS) OPERATING EARNINGS DATA: Operating revenues(1): Premiums and other considerations............. $ 746.5 $ 766.3 $ 525.4 Fees and other revenues................... 681.2 633.1 704.6 Net investment income....... 2,352.8 2,400.4 2,303.9 Total operating revenues................... 3,780.5 3,799.8 3,533.9 Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses, including dividends to policyholders........... 2,539.9 2,589.8 2,315.2 Operating expenses.......... 773.4 773.7 740.9 Total expenses............. 3,313.3 3,363.5 3,056.1 Pre tax operating earnings................... 467.2 436.3 477.8 Income taxes................. 96.3 82.5 121.2 Operating earnings........... 370.9 353.8 356.6 Net realized/unrealized capital losses, as adjusted................... (250.5) (164.7) (35.9) Non recurring items......... (10.8) U.S. GAAP REPORTED: Net income................... $ 120.4 $ 178.3 $ 320.7 (1) Excludes net realized/unrealized capital losses and their impact on recognition of front end fee revenues and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 Premiums and other considerations decreased $19.8 million, or 3%, to $746.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $766.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The decrease primarily resulted from a $59.5 million decrease in pension full service payout sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies, which are typically used to fund defined benefit plan terminations. The premium income received from these contracts fluctuates due to the variability in the number and size of pension plan terminations, the interest rate environment, and the ability to attract new sales. Partially offsetting this decrease was a $39.7 million increase in premium primarily resulting from higher individual payout annuity sales. Fees and other revenues increased $48.1 million, or 8%, to $681.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $633.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Pension fees and other revenues increased $27.2 million. The increase primarily resulted from higher fee income generated from improved net cash flows in 2002 and a reduction of losses due to market value fee adjustments on our participating business recognized in the prior year. The increase also resulted from netting the change in unearned revenue for selected products with the related unlocking of DPAC in operating expenses. Prior to the third quarter of 2002, the impact was reported separately in fees and other revenue and operating expenses. In addition, Principal Global Investors recognized a $19.3 million increase in fees and other revenue. This increase was primarily due to a reclassification of market value and hedging activities from net investment income to fees and other revenue and an increase in investment management and transaction fees. Net investment income decreased $47.6 million, or 2%, to $2,352.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $2,400.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in the average yield on invested assets and cash, which was 6.7% for the year ended December 49 31, 2002, compared to 7.3% for the year ended December 31, 2001. The decrease was partially offset by a $2,129.3 million, or 6%, increase in average invested assets and cash. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses, including dividends to policyholders, decreased $49.9 million, or 2%, to $2,539.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $2,589.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The decrease primarily resulted from a $97.0 million decrease in pension benefits, claims and settlement expenses. This decrease was largely due a decrease in interest credited to customers from our full service accumulation and investment only businesses resulting from a lower interest rate environment in 2002. Also contributing to the overall decrease was a decrease in full service payout sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies. Partially offsetting this decrease was a $44.2 million increase, which primarily resulted from an increase in reserves resulting from higher individual payout annuity sales. Operating expenses decreased $0.3 million to $773.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $773.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The decrease was primarily due to a $22.5 million decrease in pension operating expenses. This decrease was largely due to operational efficiencies including lower staff levels in addition to an increase in capitalization of DPAC resulting from an increase in sales of selected products. Offsetting the overall decrease was a $12.9 million increase in Principal Global Investors operating expenses due to an increase in employee costs resulting from the acquisition of Spectrum in the fourth quarter of 2001 and higher incentive compensation accruals in 2002. In addition, individual annuity operating expenses increased $7.3 million mainly due to an increase in DPAC amortization resulting from the decline in the stock market and an increase in corporate expense allocations in 2002. Also contributing to the increase was a $6.4 million increase in our mutual fund operating expenses. This increase primarily relates to increased commission expense generated from sales of variable life and annuity contracts. Of this increase, $2.6 million relates to sales within the segment and is eliminated at an operating segment level. Income taxes increased $13.8 million, or 17%, to $96.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $82.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The effective income tax rate for this segment was 21% for the year ended December 31, 2002, and 19% for the year ended December 31, 2001. The effective income tax rates for the year ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, were lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35% primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received and other tax exempt income. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings increased $17.1 million, or 5%, to $370.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $353.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Net realized/unrealized capital losses, as adjusted, increased $85.8 million, or 52%, to $250.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $164.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The increase includes capital losses related to other than temporary declines in the value of certain fixed maturity securities for the year ended December 31, 2002. As a result of the foregoing factors, net income decreased $57.9 million, or 32%, to $120.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $178.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. For the year ended December 31, 2001, net income included the negative effect of non recurring items totaling $10.8 million, net of income taxes, related to a cumulative effect of accounting change related to our implementation of SFAS 133. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000 Premiums and other considerations increased $240.9 million, or 46%, to $766.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $525.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The increase primarily resulted from a $236.5 million increase in premiums from single premium group annuities with life contingencies, which are typically used to fund defined benefit pension plan terminations. Despite a less attractive economic environment in late 2001, strong sales early in 2001 resulted in increased premiums for the year. Sales were not as strong late in the year due to poor economic conditions. The premium income we receive from these contracts fluctuates due to the variability in the 50 number and size of pension plan terminations in the market, the interest rate environment and our ability to attract new sales. Fees and other revenues decreased $71.5 million, or 10%, to $633.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $704.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. A decrease of $83.4 million related to a decrease in surrender charge and market value adjustment revenues from pension products, primarily due to the declining interest rate environment; a decrease in recognition of front end fee revenues due to changes in assumptions consistent with unlocking of deferred policy acquisition costs during 2001; and a decrease in fee revenues due to generally poor performance in the equity markets, resulting in a lower asset base in 2001. A decrease of $7.6 million resulted from intra segment eliminations. In addition, a $7.4 million decrease reflected lower commission fee revenues primarily from sales of variable products and third party mutual funds and lower mutual fund fee revenues from a decrease in mutual fund assets under management. The decreases were partially offset by an increase of $27.8 million from Principal Global Investors due to commercial mortgage backed securitizations. Net investment income increased $96.5 million, or 4%, to $2,400.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $2,303.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The increase reflects a $1,425.0 million, or 5%, increase in average invested assets and cash for the segment. The yield on average invested assets and cash was 7.3% for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses, including dividends to policyholders, increased $274.6 million, or 12%, to $2,589.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $2,315.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. An increase of $272.4 million in our pension full service payout business reflected the increase in reserves resulting from an increase in sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies. An additional $23.2 million increase from our pension investment only business related to an increase in interest credited due to growth in our investment only business. Partially offsetting the increases was a $30.7 million decrease in our pension full service accumulation business reflecting a decrease in interest credited, primarily a result of a declining interest rate environment. Operating expenses increased $32.8 million, or 4%, to $773.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $740.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. An increase of $36.8 million from Principal Bank resulted primarily from growth in bank operations. Additionally, an increase of $27.0 million from Principal Global Investors resulted primarily from an increase in compensation and recruiting costs due to growth in operations, an increase in depreciation expense of capitalized system implementation costs, and an increase in securitization expenses due to an increase in the number of securitization transactions closed in 2001. The increases were partially offset by an $18.8 million decrease from our pension business due to a decrease in the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs from unlocking to reflect changes in assumptions for equity market performance. The pension expense decrease was partially offset by increases in expenses for sales and marketing initiatives; write off of the remaining goodwill for Trustar, our pension administration only subsidiary; general growth in operations and amortization of software costs. The increase in segment operating expenses was also partially offset by a $7.6 million decrease from intra segment eliminations. Also offsetting the increases was a $4.6 million decrease from our individual annuity business reflecting decreases in non deferrable expenses and amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs. The amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs was lower in 2001 as the impact of unlocking the amortization for actual experience was less in 2001 than in 2000. Income taxes decreased $38.7 million, or 32%, to $82.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $121.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The effective income tax rate for this segment was 19% for the year ended December 31, 2001, and 25% for the year ended December 31, 2000. The effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, were lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35%, as a result of income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received, for which an estimated benefit recognition rate increased during 2001 compared to 2000, and other tax exempt income. 51 As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings decreased $2.8 million, or 1%, to $353.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $356.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Net realized/unrealized capital losses, as adjusted, increased $128.8 million to $164.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $35.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The increase includes realized capital losses of $62.3 million related to sales and impairments of our investment in Enron and related entities. Other permanent impairments of certain fixed maturity securities were $92.1 million during the year ended December 31, 2001. The increase also reflects the current period impact of SFAS 133 for derivatives and fewer real estate sales in the year ended December 31, 2001, compared to the year ended December 31, 2000. The increases were partially offset by the positive effects of a change in the mortgage loan valuation allowance, primarily reflecting the decrease in the amount invested in commercial mortgage loans. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of non recurring items for the year ended December 31, 2001, net income decreased $142.4 million, or 44%, to $178.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $320.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Non recurring items for the year ended December 31, 2001, had a negative impact on net income of $10.8 million, net of income taxes, due to the cumulative effect of accounting change, net of income taxes, related to our implementation of SFAS 133. INTERNATIONAL ASSET MANAGEMENT AND ACCUMULATION SEGMENT ASSET ACCUMULATION TRENDS Our international asset management and accumulation businesses focus on countries with a trend toward privatization of public retirement pension systems requiring employees who join the labor force to contribute to a private pension plan. With variations depending upon the specific country, we have targeted these markets for sales of retirement and related products and services, including defined contribution pension plans, annuities and long term mutual funds to individuals and businesses. In several of our international markets, we complement our sales of these products with sales of life insurance products. We have pursued our international strategy through a combination of start ups, acquisitions and joint ventures, which require infusions of capital consistent with our strategy of long term growth and profitability. The following table provides a summary of Principal International assets under management as of December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000: PRINCIPAL INTERNATIONAL AS OF TOTAL ASSETS UNDER MANAGEMENT (IN BILLIONS) December 31, 2002 ......... $ 4.4 December 31, 2001 ......... 3.7 December 31, 2000 ......... 3.0 52 INTERNATIONAL ASSET MANAGEMENT AND ACCUMULATION SEGMENT SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the International Asset Management and Accumulation segment for the years indicated: FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 2000 (IN MILLIONS) OPERATING EARNINGS DATA: Operating revenues (1): Premiums and other considerations............. $ 161.9 $ 344.9 $ 220.5 Fees and other revenues..... 56.4 46.1 29.5 Net investment income....... 139.6 117.4 89.2 Total operating revenues................... 357.9 508.4 339.2 Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses........ 243.8 407.5 262.2 Operating expenses.......... 87.5 101.2 100.8 Total expenses.......... 331.3 508.7 363.0 Pre tax operating earnings (loss).............. 26.6 (0.3) (23.8) Income taxes (benefits)....... 7.1 (2.6) (6.9) Operating earnings (loss)..... 19.5 2.3 (16.9) Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses), as adjusted.................. 12.4 (29.2) 1.3 Non recurring items........... (473.0) (11.2) 8.5 U.S. GAAP REPORTED: Net loss...................... $ (441.1) $ (38.1) $ (7.1) OTHER DATA: Operating earnings (loss): Principal International.............. $ 22.1 $ 5.9 $ (14.8) BT Financial Group...................... (2.6) (3.6) (2.1) Net income (loss): Principal International............. $ 13.6 $ (23.3) $ (13.6) BT Financial Group........ (454.7) (14.8) 6.5 (1) Excludes net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses) and their impact on recognition of front end fee revenues and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 Premiums and other considerations decreased $183.0 million, or 53%, to $161.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $344.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. A decrease of $145.0 million in Mexico was the result of decreased sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies primarily due to the sale of a large group annuity contract in 2001 and to a lesser extent prolonged government retention of potential annuitants in 2002. A decrease of $23.9 million in Argentina was primarily due to the weakening of the Argentine peso versus the U.S. dollar and of the general economic environment. In addition, a decrease of $13.5 million in Chile was primarily a result of the weakening of the Chilean peso versus the U.S. dollar and to a lesser extent decreased sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies due to market contraction. 53 Fees and other revenues increased $10.3 million, or 22%, to $56.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $46.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. An increase of $9.5 million in Mexico was a result of an increase in the number of retirement plan participants due to the acquisition of Zurich AFORE. In addition, an increase of $1.9 million in Hong Kong was primarily due to an increase in assets under management. Net investment income increased $22.2 million, or 19%, to $139.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $117.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The increase was primarily related to a $217.3 million, or 18%, increase in average invested assets and cash, excluding our equity investment in subsidiaries. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in investment yields. The yield on average invested assets and cash, excluding our equity investment in subsidiaries, was 9.5% for the year ended December 31, 2002, compared to 9.6% for the year ended December 31, 2001. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $163.7 million, or 40%, to $243.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $407.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. A $134.5 million decrease in Mexico was the result of higher reserve changes and policy and contract benefit payments recognized in 2001 due to the sale of a large group annuity contract with life contingencies and to a lesser extent prolonged government retention of potential annuitants in 2002. A decrease of $20.4 million in Argentina was primarily related to the weakening of the Argentine peso versus the U.S. dollar and of the general economic environment. In addition, a decrease of $8.1 million in Chile was primarily a result of the weakening of the Chilean peso versus the U.S. dollar, partially offset by higher interest credited to customers. Operating expenses decreased $13.7 million, or 14%, to $87.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $101.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. An $11.0 million decrease in Argentina was primarily related to the weakening of the Argentine peso versus the U.S. dollar and of the general economic environment. Operating expenses incurred by BT Financial Group were $4.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 and $5.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. These expenses represent corporate overhead allocated to BT Financial Group and do not qualify for discontinued operations treatment. Income tax expense increased $9.7 million to $7.1 million of income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2002, from a $2.6 million income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2001. The increase was primarily a result of an increase in pre tax operating earnings. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings increased $17.2 million to $19.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $2.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Net realized/unrealized capital gains, as adjusted, increased $41.6 million to $12.4 million of net realized capital gains for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $29.2 million of net realized capital losses for the year ended December 31, 2001. The increase was primarily due to a $21.0 million after tax net realized capital loss on the February 2001 sale of our operations in Spain. In addition, a $17.7 million increase was primarily related to losses resulting from the permanent impairment of certain fixed maturity securities in Argentina in 2001. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of non recurring items for the year ended December 31, 2002, net loss increased $403.0 million to $441.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $38.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. For the year ended December 31, 2002, net loss included the negative effect of non recurring items totaling $473.0 million, net of income taxes, related to: (1) the cumulative effect of accounting change, a result of our implementation of SFAS 142 ($276.3 million) and (2) the loss from discontinued operations of BT Financial Group ($196.7 million). For the year ended December 31, 2001, net loss included the negative effect of non recurring items totaling $11.2 million, net of income taxes, related to the loss from discontinued operations of BT Financial Group. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000 54 Premiums and other considerations increased $124.4 million, or 56%, to $344.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $220.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. An increase of $166.4 million in Mexico was the result of increased sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies, primarily resulting from the sale of a large group annuity contract. The increase was partially offset by the loss of $36.4 million of premiums and other considerations due to the February 2001 divestiture of our operations in Spain. Fees and other revenues increased $16.6 million, or 56%, to $46.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $29.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. An increase of $10.3 million in Mexico was a result of an increase in the number of retirement plan participants. In addition, an increase of $4.3 million in Hong Kong was primarily due to deposits growth resulting from sales to plans established under the new Mandatory Provident Fund that started in December 2000. Net investment income increased $28.2 million, or 32%, to $117.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $89.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The increase was primarily related to a $209.3 million, or 21%, increase in average invested assets and cash and an increase in investment yields, excluding our equity investment in subsidiaries. The yield on average invested assets and cash, excluding our equity investment in subsidiaries, was 9.6% for the year ended December 31, 2001, compared to 8.0% for the year ended December 31, 2000. The increase in investment yields was primarily due to the impact of inflation on nominal yields in Chile, which was offset by a corresponding increase in reserve changes. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $145.3 million, or 55%, to $407.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $262.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. An increase in reserve changes and policy and contract benefit payments of $171.6 million in Mexico was primarily the result of the sale of a large group annuity contract with life contingencies. An increase of $15.1 million in Chile primarily related to an increase in reserve changes to reflect the impact of inflation adjustments. The increases were partially offset by the loss of $43.8 million of benefits, claims and settlement expenses resulting from the divestiture of our operations in Spain. Operating expenses increased $0.4 million to $101.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $100.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Operating expenses incurred by BT Financial Group were $5.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2001 and $3.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. These expenses represent corporate overhead allocated to BT Financial Group and do not qualify for discontinued operations treatment. Income tax benefits decreased $4.3 million, or 62%, to $2.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $6.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The decrease was primarily a result of a decrease in pre tax operating loss. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings increased $19.2 million to $2.3 million of operating earnings for the year ended December 31, 2001, from a $16.9 million operating loss for the year ended December 31, 2000. Net realized/unrealized capital losses, as adjusted, increased $30.5 million to $29.2 million of net realized capital losses for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $1.3 million of net realized capital gains for the year ended December 31, 2000. The increase was primarily due to a $21.0 million after tax net realized capital loss on the February 2001 sale of our operations in Spain. In addition, a $13.9 million increase related to losses resulting from the permanent impairment of certain fixed maturity securities in Argentina. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of non recurring items for the year ended December 31, 2001, net loss increased $31.0 million to $38.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $7.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. For the year ended December 31, 2001, net loss included the negative effect of non recurring items totaling $11.2 million, net of income taxes, related to the loss from discontinued operations of BT Financial Group. For the year ended December 31, 2000, net loss included the positive effect of 55 non recurring items totaling $8.5 million, net of income taxes, related to the income from discontinued operations of BT Financial Group. LIFE AND HEALTH INSURANCE SEGMENT INDIVIDUAL AND GROUP LIFE INSURANCE TRENDS Our life insurance premiums have been influenced by both economic and industry trends. We are seeing a shift in sales from traditional life insurance products with premiums to universal and variable universal products with deposits and fees. Premiums related to our individual traditional life insurance products have declined due to the shift in customer preference. Our group life insurance premiums declined in 2001 due largely to the loss of two large customers. The following table provides a summary of our life insurance fee revenues, premiums, premium equivalents, and policyholder liabilities as of or for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000: LIFE INSURANCE INDIVIDUAL UNIVERSAL AND VARIABLE UNIVERSAL LIFE INDIVIDUAL GROUP LIFE INSURANCE TRADITIONAL LIFE INSURANCE INSURANCE PREMIUMS AND AS OF OR FOR THE YEAR FEE POLICYHOLDER POLICYHOLDER PREMIUM ENDED REVENUES LIABILITIES(1) PREMIUMS LIABILITIES EQUIVALENTS (IN MILLIONS) December 31, 2002....... $129.5 $1,900.9 $ 737.2 $ 5,851.4 $ 217.6 December 31, 2001....... 99.6 1,748.5 766.2 5,712.7 221.8 December 31, 2000....... 89.1 1,567.5 772.8 5,522.7 277.7 (1) Includes separate account liabilities for policies with variable investment options. HEALTH INSURANCE TRENDS Improved pricing discipline in our group medical insurance business has affected premium growth during the past few years. In general, we reacted faster than the industry in 2000 to rising healthcare costs by raising our prices. That action depressed sales and increased lapses, causing a loss of membership and total premiums that continued into 2001. Our price increases have subsided to match cost trends, and competitors have increased their pricing more recently. While sales and lapses improved in 2001 and 2002, inforce covered members continued to decline but at a much slower pace. Decreases in premium due to loss of membership were offset by increased premium per member. Some of the decline in members during the past few years was due to strategic decisions to exit under performing and non strategic businesses and markets. Effective January 1, 2000, we ceased new sales of our Medicare supplement insurance product and effective July 1, 2000, reinsured all existing Medicare supplement business. More recently, we began to exit the small case medical business in Florida. We continue to sell group medical business in 35 states plus the District of Columbia. We also offer dental business in 50 states plus the District of Columbia, vision coverage in 49 states plus the District of Columbia, and administrative services only business in all 50 states plus the District of Columbia. Our health insurance premiums and premium equivalents for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 were as follows: 56 PREMIUMS AND PREMIUM EQUIVALENTS GROUP MEDICAL GROUP DENTAL AND FOR THE YEAR ENDED INSURANCE(1) VISION INSURANCE FEE FOR SERVICE (IN MILLIONS) December 31, 2002........... $ 1,620.5 $ 343.5 $ 2,108.7 December 31, 2001........... 1,610.3 351.1 1,828.2 December 31, 2000........... 1,815.6 340.4 1,502.2 (1) Effective January 1, 2000, we ceased new sales of our Medicare supplement insurance and effective July 1, 2000, reinsured all existing Medicare supplement business. Beginning September 1, 2002, we began non renewing small group medical business in the state of Florida. INDIVIDUAL AND GROUP DISABILITY INSURANCE TRENDS Premium growth for our group and individual disability business in 2002 and 2001 is being driven by growing sales and stable persistency. This has been a result of more focused distribution on these product lines. The following table provides a summary of our disability insurance premiums, premium equivalents, and policyholder liabilities as of or for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000: DISABILITY INSURANCE GROUP DISABILITY INDIVIDUAL DISABILITY INSURANCE INSURANCE POLICYHOLDER PREMIUMS AND PREMIUM AS OF OR FOR THE YEAR ENDED PREMIUMS LIABILITIES EQUIVALENTS (IN MILLIONS) December 31, 2002........... $ 93.5 $ 426.8 $ 111.0 December 31, 2001........... 83.2 381.5 98.2 December 31, 2000........... 74.2 338.9 94.5 57 LIFE AND HEALTH INSURANCE SEGMENT SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the Life and Health Insurance segment for the years indicated: FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 2000 (IN MILLIONS) OPERATING EARNINGS DATA: Operating Revenues (1): Premiums and other considerations............. $2,973.4 $ 3,011.1 $ 3,250.5 Fees and other revenues..... 313.2 256.7 230.0 Net investment income....... 660.2 678.6 642.1 Total operating revenues................... 3,946.8 3,946.4 4,122.6 Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses........ 2,433.4 2,491.0 2,659.4 Dividends to policyholders.. 307.0 307.0 308.1 Operating expenses.......... 851.2 842.7 913.6 Total expenses.......... 3,591.6 3,640.7 3,881.1 Pre tax operating earnings.... 355.2 305.7 241.5 Income taxes.................. 122.1 104.5 79.2 Operating earnings............ 233.1 201.2 162.3 Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses), as adjusted.................. (50.0) (33.8) 47.3 Non recurring items........... (4.6) 0.1 U.S. GAAP REPORTED: Net income.................... $ 178.5 $ 167.5 $ 209.6 (1) Excludes net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses) and their impact on recognition of front end fee revenues and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 Premiums and other considerations decreased $37.7 million, or 1%, to $2,973.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $3,011.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Life insurance premiums decreased $63.2 million, primarily resulting from the reclassification of revenues from our group universal life insurance product from premium to fee revenues and the continued shift of customer preference from traditional life insurance products to fee based universal and variable universal life insurance products. Partially offsetting the decrease was a $23.1 million increase in disability insurance premiums due to strong sales in 2002. Fees and other revenues increased $56.5 million, or 22%, to $313.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $256.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Fee revenues from our life insurance business increased $50.2 million, primarily due to the reclassification of revenues from our group universal life product to fee revenues from premium and the continued shift in customer preference, as previously mentioned. Fee revenues from our health insurance business increased $6.3 million, primarily a result of selling additional services to existing fee for service customers and related price increases. Net investment income decreased $18.4 million, or 3%, to $660.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $678.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The decrease primarily reflects lower average investment yields due in part to an overall lower interest rate environment. The yield on average 58 invested assets and cash was 7.1% for the year ended December 31, 2002, compared to 7.6% for the year ended December 31, 2001. Partially offsetting the decrease was a $357.8 million, or 4%, increase in average invested assets and cash for the segment. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $57.6 million, or 2%, to $2,433.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $2,491.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Health insurance benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $40.8 million, primarily due to amounts received from a reinsurer. Life insurance benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $27.9 million primarily due to lower death claims and a lower reserve increase related to a decrease in premium. Partially offsetting these decreases was an $11.1 million increase in disability insurance benefits, claims and settlement expenses, primarily a result of growth in the business. Operating expenses increased $8.5 million, or 1%, to $851.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $842.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Disability insurance operating expenses increased $4.8 million due to expenses associated with higher sales, increased commissions on higher premiums, and increased amortization of DPAC on a growing block of business. Life insurance operating expenses increased $2.5 million primarily due to an increase in compensation costs partially offset by an increase in the capitalization of DPAC related to higher sales and the reclassifying of fees received from reinsurance ceded from fee revenue to operating expenses. In addition, Health operating expenses increased $1.2 million, primarily a result of increased commissions partially offset by several one time expenses in 2001. Income taxes increased $17.6 million, or 17%, to $122.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $104.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The effective income tax rate for the segment was 34% for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001. The effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, were lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35% primarily due to tax exempt income. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings increased $31.9 million, or 16%, to $233.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $201.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Net realized/unrealized capital losses, as adjusted, increased $16.2 million to $50.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $33.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The increase includes an increase in realized capital losses related to other than temporary declines in the value of certain fixed maturity securities partially offset by lower capital losses on the sales of fixed maturity securities. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of non recurring items for the year ended December 31, 2002, net income increased $11.0 million, or 7%, to $178.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $167.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Non recurring items for the year ended December 31, 2002, had a negative impact on net income of $4.6 million, net of income taxes, due to the cumulative effect of accounting change, a result of our implementation of SFAS 142. Non recurring items for the year ended December 31, 2001, had a positive impact on net income of $0.1 million, net of income taxes, due to the cumulative effect of accounting change, a result of our implementation of SFAS 133. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000 Premiums and other considerations decreased $239.4 million, or 7%, to $3,011.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $3,250.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Health insurance premiums decreased $181.0 million, primarily resulting from our decision to reinsure 100% of the group Medicare supplement business effective July 1, 2000 and group medical premium rate increases in 2000, which led to increased lapses and lower sales. Life insurance premiums decreased $71.3 million, primarily due to the loss of two large group life customers and, to a lesser extent, a result of the continued shift from individual traditional life insurance products to individual universal and variable universal life insurance products. Group life sales also decreased as a result of pricing actions on our group medical business, as these products are often sold together. 59 Fees and other revenues increased $26.7 million, or 12%, to $256.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $230.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Fee revenues from our health insurance business increased $24.4 million, primarily due to growth in the group fee for service business and, to a lesser extent, increases in fee rates. Fee revenues from the life insurance business increased $3.5 million, a result of continued growth from the individual universal and variable universal life insurance product partially offset by a decrease in individual traditional life insurance fee revenues related to classifying fees from reinsurance ceded for traditional life insurance as operating expenses. The fees from reinsurance were previously reported as fee revenues. Net investment income increased $36.5 million, or 6%, to $678.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $642.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The increase was primarily due to a $265.1 million, or 3%, increase in average invested assets and cash for the segment. Net investment income also increased due to an increase in average investment yields for the segment. The yield on average invested assets and cash was 7.6% for the year ended December 31, 2001, compared to 7.4% for the year ended December 31, 2000. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $168.4 million, or 6%, to $2,491.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $2,659.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Health insurance benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $114.1 million primarily due to a reduction in group medical business and our decision to reinsure 100% of the group Medicare supplement business effective July 1, 2000. In general, health insurance benefits as a percentage of premiums decreased due to improved pricing, resulting in lower loss ratios. These decreases were partially offset by reserve releases during the year ended December 31, 2000. Life insurance benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $32.9 million primarily due to the loss of two large group life customers and an overall decline in group life business. Disability insurance benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $21.4 million, primarily a result of claim reserve strengthening during 2000. Dividends to policyholders decreased $1.1 million to $307.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $308.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The decrease was primarily a result of a change in methodology of estimating dividends. Additionally, the dividends in the Closed Block were reduced due to accumulated experience losses. Operating expenses decreased $70.9 million, or 8%, to $842.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $913.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Health insurance operating expenses decreased $51.5 million, primarily due to our decision to reinsure 100% of our group Medicare supplement insurance business effective July 1, 2000 and due to expense management in response to an overall decline in health insurance business. Life insurance operating expenses decreased $11.8 million primarily due to a decrease in commission expense resulting from classifying fees from reinsurance ceded for traditional life insurance as operating expenses rather than fee revenues, a decrease in company sponsored benefit plan expenses, and a decrease in commissions resulting from lower sales. The decreases in life insurance operating expenses were partially offset by lower capitalization of deferred policy acquisition costs related to lower sales of individual life insurance. Disability insurance operating expenses decreased $7.6 million due to unlocking of individual disability insurance deferred policy acquisition costs in 2000, a result of changes in profitability assumptions. Income taxes increased $25.3 million, or 32%, to $104.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $79.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The effective income tax rate for the segment was 34% for the year ended December 31, 2001, and 33% for the year ended December 31, 2000. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2001, was lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35% primarily due to tax exempt income. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2000, was lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35%, primarily due to tax exempt income and a reduction in a tax reserve as a result of a favorable IRS audit event. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings increased $38.9 million, or 24%, to $201.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $162.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. 60 Net realized/unrealized capital losses, as adjusted, increased $81.1 million to $33.8 million of net realized/unrealized capital losses for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $47.3 million of net realized/unrealized capital gains for the year ended December 31, 2000. The decrease primarily related to the sale of our investment in United Payors and United Providers. In 2000, we sold our remaining investment and realized an after tax capital gain of $58.9 million. To a lesser extent, the decrease was due to an increase in losses from permanent impairments of fixed maturity securities during 2001, including $16.6 million of net realized capital losses related to our investment in Enron and related entities. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of non recurring items for the year ended December 31, 2001, net income decreased $42.1 million, or 20%, to $167.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $209.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Non recurring items for the year ended December 31, 2001, had a positive impact on net income of $0.1 million, net of income taxes, due to the cumulative effect of accounting change, a result of our implementation of SFAS 133. MORTGAGE BANKING SEGMENT MORTGAGE BANKING TRENDS We believe residential mortgages play a central role in the financial planning activities of individuals in the U.S. As a result, our mortgage banking operations complement our portfolio of market driven financial products and services. Interest rate trends significantly impact our residential mortgage business. Starting in early 2001 interest rates declined resulting in increases in the production of both purchase and refinance mortgage loans throughout the industry. This trend continued through all of 2002. We manage growth in the mortgage loan servicing portfolio through retention of mortgage loan production and the acquisition, and occasional sale, of mortgage servicing rights. Our servicing portfolio grew at a compound annual rate of 39% between December 31, 2000 and December 31, 2002. Growth was steady during this period and resulted from strong mortgage loan production net of servicing portfolio prepayments, strong servicing acquisitions and very few servicing sales. Our residential mortgage loan production and the unpaid principal balances in our residential mortgage loan servicing portfolio as of or for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000 were as follows: RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE AS OF OR FOR THE YEAR ENDED LOAN PRODUCTION LOAN SERVICING PORTFOLIO (IN MILLIONS) December 31, 2002................ $ 46,811.2 $ 107,745.3 December 31, 2001................ 37,771.3 80,530.5 December 31, 2000................ 8,311.8 55,987.4 MORTGAGE BANKING SEGMENT SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the Mortgage Banking segment for the years indicated: 61 FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 2000 (IN MILLIONS) OPERATING EARNINGS DATA: Operating Revenues(1): Loan servicing................ $ 590.1 $ 403.0 $ 313.8 Loan production............... 562.9 354.4 46.0 Total operating revenues.. 1,153.0 757.4 359.8 Expenses: Loan servicing................ 711.8 407.3 215.3 Loan production............... 196.4 145.0 67.4 Total expenses............ 908.2 552.3 282.7 Pre tax operating earnings......... 244.8 205.1 77.1 Income taxes....................... 101.9 78.4 27.1 Operating earnings................. 142.9 126.7 50.0 Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses), as adjusted..... Non recurring items................ U.S. GAAP REPORTED: Net income......................... $ 142.9 $ 126.7 $ 50.0 (1) Excludes net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses) and their impact on recognition of front end fee revenues and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 Total operating revenues increased $395.6 million, or 52%, to $1,153.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $757.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Residential mortgage loan production revenues increased $208.5 million primarily due to an increase in mortgage loan production, which increased to $46.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2002, compared to $37.8 billion for the same period a year ago. A $187.1 million increase in residential mortgage loan servicing revenues reflects an increase in the residential mortgage loan servicing portfolio. The average balance of the servicing portfolio was $95.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2002, compared to $65.8 billion for the same period a year ago. In addition, mortgage loan servicing revenues increased due to a gain on the sale of approximately $300.0 million of delinquent Government National Mortgage Association ("GNMA") loans during the second quarter of 2002. This sale generated revenues of $15.0 million in 2002 with no corresponding sale of loans in 2001. Total expenses increased $355.9 million, or 64%, to $908.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $552.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. A $304.5 million increase in residential mortgage loan servicing expenses resulted from increased expenses related to growth in the servicing portfolio and a $137.3 million increase in impairment of capitalized mortgage servicing rights net of servicing hedge activity. Residential mortgage loan production expenses increased $51.4 million reflecting the increase in residential mortgage loan production volume. Income taxes increased $23.5 million, or 30%, to $101.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $78.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The increase in income taxes primarily resulted from an increase in pre tax operating earnings. The effective income tax rate for this segment was 42% for the year ended December 31, 2002, and 38% for the year ended December 31, 2001. The increase in the effective tax rate to 42% for the year ended December 31, 2002, from 38% for the year ended December 31, 2001, was primarily due to the cumulative effect of increasing deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax expense for a change in the state income tax apportionment factor, a result of our sale of substantially all of BT Financial Group. 62 As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings and net income increased $16.2 million, or 13%, to $142.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $126.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000 Total operating revenues increased $397.6 million to $757.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $359.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. A $308.4 million increase in mortgage loan production revenues reflects the increase in mortgage loan production volume during the year ended December 31, 2001. In addition, an increase of $89.2 million in mortgage loan servicing revenues reflects the growth in the mortgage loan servicing portfolio. The decline in interest rates in 2001 resulted in mortgage loan production of $37.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2001, compared to $8.3 billion for the same period a year ago. The average balance of the servicing portfolio was $65.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2001, compared to $52.6 billion for the same period a year ago. Total expenses increased $269.6 million, or 95%, to $552.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $282.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. A $192.0 million increase in mortgage loan servicing expenses was primarily a result of an impairment of capitalized mortgage loan servicing rights and, to a lesser extent, due to growth in the mortgage loan servicing portfolio. The impairment was partially offset by an increase in net gains on servicing hedge activity recognized in the year ended December 31, 2001, compared to the year ended December 31, 2000. Mortgage loan production expenses increased $77.6 million, reflecting the increase in mortgage loan production volume. Income taxes increased $51.3 million to $78.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $27.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The effective income tax rate for this segment was 38% for the year ended December 31, 2001, and 35% for the year ended December 31, 2000. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2001, was higher that the corporate income tax rate of 35% due to the allocation of deferred state taxes, relating to both current and prior years, recorded in 2001. This allocation will increase the effective income tax rate for this segment in future reporting periods. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings and net income increased $76.7 million to $126.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $50.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. CORPORATE AND OTHER SEGMENT CORPORATE AND OTHER SEGMENT SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the Corporate and Other segment for the years indicated: 63 FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 2000 (IN MILLIONS) OPERATING EARNINGS DATA: Operating Revenues (1): Total operating revenues.... $ (15.1) $ 101.7 $ 98.2 Expenses: Total expenses.............. 33.4 44.2 15.5 Pre tax operating earnings (loss)...................... (48.5) 57.5 82.7 Income taxes (benefits)...... (31.5) 19.4 15.0 Operating earnings (loss).... (17.0) 38.1 67.7 Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses), as adjusted.................... 44.2 (93.3) 80.3 Non recurring items.......... 114.4 (20.4) (101.0) U.S. GAAP REPORTED: Net income (loss)............ $ 141.6 $ (75.6) $ 47.0 (1) Excludes net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses) and their impact on recognition of front end fee revenues and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 Total operating revenues decreased $116.8 million to a negative $15.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from a positive $101.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Net investment income decreased $62.8 million, reflecting a decrease in investment gains on real estate due to lower sales of certain real estate held for sale, compared to an unusually high volume of sales experienced in 2001. In addition, net investment income decreased $39.3 million due to a decrease of average investment yields for the segment. The decrease in total revenues was also partially due to a $21.9 million increase in inter segment eliminations included in this segment, which was primarily offset by a corresponding change in total expenses. Total expenses decreased $10.8 million, or 24%, to $33.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $44.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Inter segment eliminations included in this segment increased $21.0 million, resulting in a decrease in total expenses. In addition, a $6.8 million decrease related to a prior year write off of a non invested asset. These decreases were partially offset by an $11.0 million increase in interest expense, primarily due to interest related to federal income tax audit activities as well as a $6.8 million increase due to costs associated with operating as a public company. Income tax benefits increased $50.9 million to a $31.5 million income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $19.4 million of income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2001. The increase was primarily a result of a decrease in pre tax operating earnings. The increase was also due to a decrease in income tax reserves established for contested IRS tax audit matters. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings decreased $55.1 million to $17.0 million of operating loss for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $38.1 million of operating earnings for the year ended December 31, 2001. Net realized/unrealized capital gains, as adjusted, increased $137.5 million to $44.2 million of net realized/unrealized capital gains for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $93.3 million of net realized/unrealized capital losses for the year ended December 31, 2001. The increase was primarily due to realized capital gains related to the sale of our investment in Coventry in February 64 2002, and to a lesser extent, other sales of invested assets. The increases were partially offset by the mark to market of certain seed money investments. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of non recurring items, net income increased $217.2 million to $141.6 million of net income for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $75.6 million of net loss for the year ended December 31, 2001. For the year ended December 31, 2002, net income included the effect of non recurring items totaling $114.4 million, net of income taxes, related to: (1) the positive effect of the settlement of an IRS audit issue ($138.0 million) and (2) the negative effects of (a) an increase in our loss contingency reserve for sales practices litigation ($21.6 million) and (b) expenses related to our demutualization ($2.0 million). For the year ended December 31, 2001, net loss included the effect of non recurring items totaling $20.4 million, net of income taxes, related to: (1) the negative effects of (a) expenses related to our demutualization ($18.6 million) and (b) an increase in our loss contingency reserve for sales practices litigation ($5.9 million) and (2) the positive effect of investment income generated from the proceeds of our IPO ($4.1 million). YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000 Total operating revenues increased $3.5 million, or 4%, to $101.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $98.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Net investment income increased $14.0 million, reflecting an increase in average invested assets and cash. The increase in total revenues was also partially due to a $1.7 million decrease in inter segment eliminations included in this segment, which was offset by a corresponding change in total expenses. The increases were partially offset by an $11.2 million decrease in net investment income due to a decrease in average investment yields for the segment. Total expenses increased $28.7 million to $44.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $15.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Interest expense increased $32.3 million, primarily due to a net recovery in 2000 of previously paid interest related to a successful tax audit appeal. An increase of $6.8 million related to the write off of a non invested asset. Interest expense on short term borrowings increased $3.1 million. The increase in total expenses was also partially due to a $1.7 million decrease in inter segment eliminations included in this segment. The increases were partially offset by a $9.3 million decrease of interest expense as a result of extinguishment of commercial real estate debt on home office properties. In addition, interest expense on private debt securities and commercial paper issued in connection with the acquisition of BT Financial Group decreased $5.9 million, a result of the impact of the weakening of the Australian dollar versus the U.S. dollar and repayment of the commercial paper. Income tax expense increased $4.4 million, or 29%, to $19.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $15.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. The increase was primarily due to tax exempt income in 2000, and, to a lesser extent, due to a decrease in income tax reserves established for contested IRS tax audit matters in 2000. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings decreased $29.6 million, or 44%, to $38.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $67.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2000. Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses), as adjusted, decreased $173.6 million to $93.3 million of net realized/unrealized capital losses for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $80.3 million of net realized/unrealized capital gains for the year ended December 31, 2000. The decrease was primarily due to an increase in net realized capital losses for the year ended December 31, 2001, on sales of equity securities and real estate. The decrease included $10.5 million of net realized capital losses related to our investment in Enron and related entities. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of non recurring items, net loss increased $122.6 million to a net loss of $75.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2001, from $47.0 million of net income for the year ended December 31, 2000. For the year ended December 31, 2001, net income included the effect of non recurring items totaling $20.4 million, net of income taxes, related to: (1) the negative effects of (a) expenses related to our demutualization ($18.6 million) and (b) an increase in our loss contingency reserve for sales practices litigation ($5.9 million) and (2) the positive effect of investment income generated from the proceeds of our IPO ($4.1 65 million). For the year ended December 31, 2000, net income included the negative effects of non recurring items totaling $101.0 million, net of income taxes, related to: (1) a loss contingency reserve established for sales practices litigation ($93.8 million) and (2) expenses related to our demutualization ($7.2 million). LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES THE HOLDING COMPANIES Liquidity describes the ability of a company to generate sufficient cash flows to meet the cash requirements of business operations. Our parent holding company, Principal Financial Group, Inc., is a Delaware business corporation, whose assets primarily consist of the outstanding capital stock of its subsidiaries. As a holding company, Principal Financial Group Inc.s ability to meet cash requirements, including the payments of dividends on common stock and the repurchase of stock, substantially depends upon dividends from subsidiaries, primarily Principal Life. The payment of stockholder dividends by Principal Life to its parent company is limited by Iowa laws. Under Iowa laws, Principal Life may pay dividends only from the earned surplus arising from its business and must receive the prior approval of the Insurance Commissioner of the State of Iowa ("the Commissioner") to pay a stockholder dividend if such a stockholder dividend would exceed certain statutory limitations. The current statutory limitation is the greater of: o 10% of Principal Lifes statutory policyholder surplus as of the previous year end; or o the statutory net gain from operations from the previous calendar year. Iowa law gives the Commissioner discretion to disapprove requests for dividends in excess of these limits. Based on this limitation and 2002 statutory results, Principal Life could pay approximately $746.6 million in stockholder dividends in 2003 without exceeding the statutory limitation. Principal Life was able to pay approximately $640.3 million in statutory dividends in 2002 based on its 2001 statutory financial results without being subject to the restrictions on payment of extraordinary stockholder dividends. Total stockholder dividends paid by Principal Life to its parent company in 2002 and 2001 were $590.2 million and $734.7 million, respectively. Another source of liquidity is issuance of our common stock. In 2002, proceeds from the issuance of our common stock were $22.0 million. In 2001, net proceeds from our IPO totaled $1,753.9 million, of which we retained $64.2 million for working capital, payment of dividends, and other general corporate purposes. The remaining $1,689.7 million was contributed to Principal Life principally to fund demutualization compensation to policyholders in the form of policy credits and cash, and to cover certain expenses related to our demutualization. In addition, net proceeds from the issuance of additional shares for the exercise of the over allotment options granted to the underwriters in the IPO, totaled $265.4 million, all of which we retained for repurchase of shares issued in the exercise of the over allotment options. In 2002, we paid $83.8 million in dividends to shareholders. We paid a dividend of $0.25 per share on December 9, 2002, to shareholders of record as of November 8, 2002. In the last two years, our board of directors has authorized various repurchase programs under which we are allowed to purchase shares of our outstanding common stock. Shares repurchased under these programs are accounted for as treasury stock, carried at cost and reflected as a reduction to stockholders equity. On November 26, 2002, our board of directors authorized a third repurchase program of up to $300.0 million of our outstanding common stock. The repurchases will be made in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions, from time to time, depending on market conditions. No purchases were made under this program as of December 31, 2002. 66 Earlier in 2002, our board of directors authorized two repurchase programs that were completed with the purchase of 27.0 million shares in the open market at an aggregate cost of $750.0 million. On November 27, 2001, our board of directors authorized a repurchase program of up to 15.3 million shares of our outstanding common stock. This program was completed by December 31, 2001, with the purchase of 13.0 million shares through an accelerated share repurchase program and 2.3 million shares through the open market and privately negotiated transactions at an aggregate cost of $367.7 million. The 13.0 million shares purchased under the accelerated share repurchase program were subject to a future contingent purchase price adjustment. The adjustment was based upon the difference between the market price of our common stock as of December 14, 2001, and its volume weighted average price over an extended trading period as outlined in the forward stock purchase contract. Settlement of this contract occurred in February 2002 with a cash payment of $0.4 million. Sources of liquidity also include facilities for short term and long term borrowing as needed, arranged through our intermediate holding company, Principal Financial Services Inc. ("PFSI"), and its subsidiaries. See "Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments" below. PRINCIPAL LIFE Historically, the principal cash flow sources for Principal Life have been premiums from life and health insurance products, pension and annuity deposits, asset management fee revenues, administrative services fee revenues, income from investments, proceeds from the sales or maturity of investments, long term debt and short term borrowings. Cash outflows consist primarily of payment of benefits to policyholders and beneficiaries, income and other taxes, current operating expenses, payment of dividends to policyholders, payments in connection with investments acquired, payments made to acquire subsidiaries, payment of dividends to parent, and payments relating to policy and contract surrenders, withdrawals, policy loans, interest expense and repayment of short term borrowings and long term debt. Principal Life maintains investment strategies generally intended to provide adequate funds to pay benefits without forced sales of investments. Products having liabilities with longer lives, such as life insurance and full service payout pension products, are matched with assets having similar estimated lives such as mortgage loans, long term bonds and private placement bonds. Shorter term liabilities are matched with investments such as short and medium term fixed maturities. In addition, highly liquid, high quality short term investments are held to fund anticipated operating expenses, surrenders, withdrawals and development and maintenance expenses associated with new products and technologies. Our privately placed fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage loans and real estate investments are generally less liquid than our publicly traded fixed maturity securities. As of December 31, 2002 and 2001, these asset classes represented approximately 43% and 49%, respectively, of the value of our consolidated invested assets. See Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rate Risk" for a discussion of duration matching. Life insurance companies generally produce a positive cash flow from operations, as measured by the amount by which cash inflows are adequate to meet benefit obligations to policyholders and normal operating expenses as they are incurred. The remaining cash flow is generally used to increase the asset base to provide funds to meet the need for future policy benefit payments and for writing and acquiring new business. It is important to match the investment portfolio maturities to the cash flow demands of the type of annuity, investment or insurance product being provided. Principal Life continuously monitors benefits, surrenders and maturities to provide projections of future cash requirements. As part of this monitoring process, Principal Life performs cash flow testing of many of its assets and liabilities under various scenarios to evaluate the adequacy of reserves. In developing its investment strategy, Principal Life establishes a level of cash and securities which, combined with expected net cash inflows from operations, maturities of fixed maturity investments and principal payments on mortgage backed securities and commercial mortgage loans, are believed adequate to meet anticipated short term and long term benefit and expense payment obligations. There can be no assurance that future experience regarding benefits and surrenders will be similar to historic experience since 67 withdrawal and surrender levels are influenced by such factors as the interest rate environment and the claims paying ability and financial strength ratings of Principal Life. Principal Life takes into account asset liability management considerations in the product development and design process. Contract terms of 95% and 96% of Principal Lifes universal and variable universal life insurance products as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively, include surrender and withdrawal provisions which mitigate the risk of losses due to early withdrawals. These provisions generally do one or more of the following: limit the amount of penalty free withdrawals; limit the circumstances under which withdrawals are permitted; or assess a surrender charge or market value adjustment relating to the underlying assets. The market value adjustment feature in Principal Lifes fixed annuity products adjusts the surrender value of a contract in the event of surrender prior to the end of the contract period to protect Principal Life against losses due to higher interest rates at the time of surrender. Our GICs and funding agreements contain provisions limiting early surrenders, including penalties for early surrenders and minimum notice requirements. Put provisions give customers the option to terminate a contract prior to maturity, provided they give a minimum notice period. The following table presents U.S. GAAP reserves for guaranteed investment contracts and funding agreements by withdrawal provisions as of December 31, 2002 and 2001: AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 (IN MILLIONS) BOOK VALUE OUT(1) Puttable: Less than 30 days put................... $ $ 30 to 89 days put....................... 90 to 180 days put...................... More than 180 days put.................. 55.1 55.1 No active put provision(2)............... Total puttable........................ 55.1 55.1 Surrenderable: Book value out without surrender charge.................................. 9.5 22.9 Book value out with surrender charge..... 869.5 396.3 Total surrenderable................... 879.0 419.2 Total book value out.............. 934.1 474.3 MARKET VALUE OUT(3) Less than 30 days notice.................. 8.4 26.9 30 to 89 days notice...................... 116.3 281.9 90 to 180 days notice..................... 981.2 1,133.6 More than 180 days notice................. 4,623.8 4,795.6 No active surrender provision.............. 71.0 238.5 Total market value out................ 5,800.7 6,476.5 Not puttable or surrenderable.............. 13,405.9 11,502.1 Total GICs and funding agreements..... $ 20,140.7 $18,452.9 (1) Book Value Out: The amount equal to the sum of deposits less withdrawals with interest accrued at the contractual interest rate. (2) Contracts currently in initial lock out period but which will become puttable with 90 days notice at some time in the future. 68 (3) Market Value Out: The amount equal to the book value out plus a market value adjustment to adjust for changes in interest rates. INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS We expect to receive approximately $938.4 million of proceeds from our sale of substantially all of BT Financial Group to Westpac. This amount includes cash proceeds, expected tax benefits, and a gain from unwinding the hedged asset associated with debt used to acquire BT Financial Group in 1999. An additional future contingent receipt of $80.0 million may by received in 2004, if Westpac experiences growth in their retail assets under management. As of December 31, 2002, we have received $667.5 million of the expected proceeds. Our Brazilian and Chilean operations, along with one of our Mexican companies, produced positive cash flow from operations for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001. These cash flows have been historically maintained at the local country level for strategic expansion purposes. Our international operations have required an infusion of capital of $95.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, primarily to fund our acquisitions of Zurich AFORE and AFORE Tepeyac in Mexico. We have also required infusions of capital of $44.7 million and $75.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively, primarily to meet the cash outflow requirements of our international operations. These other international operations are primarily in the start up stage or are expanding in the short term. Our capital funding of these operations is consistent with our long term strategy to establish viable companies that can sustain future growth from internally generated sources. SOURCES AND USES OF CASH OF CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS Net cash provided by operating activities was $5,564.0 million, $4,057.4 million and $2,792.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The increase in 2002 compared to 2001 is primarily related to an increase in mortgage banking servicing and production fees, an increase in funds collected on behalf of investors, related to mortgage banking services, increases in bank deposits, as well as decreases in income tax payments and cash paid for benefits, claims and settlement expenses. The increase in 2001 compared to 2000 resulted primarily from increases in mortgage banking servicing and production fees, increases in single premium annuity sales, in addition to increases in funds collected on behalf of investors, related to mortgage banking services. Net cash used in investing activities was $4,078.1 million, $3,738.0 million and $1,393.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The increase in cash used in 2002 compared to 2001 was primarily due to an increase during 2002 in the volume of net mortgage loans purchased and sold. Also contributing to the increase in cash used was the decline in real estate sales from the prior year. Offsetting these increases in cash used was the sale of substantially all of BT Financial Group, as well as the sale of our shares of Coventry stock. The increase in cash used in 2001 compared to 2000 resulted from an increase in the volume of mortgage loans purchased and sold in 2001 as well as an increase in net mortgage loan servicing rights purchased, as a result of increased mortgage loan production in 2001. Net cash used in financing activities was $1,008.5 million, $549.2 million and $1,006.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The increase in net cash used in 2002 compared to 2001 is primarily from the non recurrence of the impact from the prior years IPO, in addition to the repurchase of shares or our common stock and payments of dividends in 2002. Partially offsetting the increases in cash used was an increase in investment contract deposits, net of withdrawals. The decrease in cash used in 2001 compared to 2000 was primarily due to the receipt of net proceeds from issuance of common stock in conjunction with our IPO. Partially offsetting this decrease in cash used were payments made to eligible policyholders as part of our demutualization and the repurchase of shares of our common stock. Given the historical cash flow of our subsidiaries and the financial results of these subsidiaries, we believe the cash flow from our consolidated operating activities over the next year will provide sufficient liquidity for our operations, as well as satisfy interest payments and any payments related to debt servicing. 69 CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS The following tables present payments due by period for contractual obligations as of December 31, 2002 and 2001: AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2002 LESS THAN 1 4 5 AFTER 5 CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS TOTAL YEAR 1 3 YEARS YEARS YEARS (IN MILLIONS) Long term debt(1)............... $1,332.5 $ 116.9 $ 326.3 $ 117.7 $ 771.6 Operating leases(2)............. 153.3 51.6 55.9 22.5 23.3 Non recourse medium term notes(3)...................... 3,583.5 573.3 1,357.9 133.0 1,519.3 Total contractual cash obligations................ $5,069.3 $ 741.8 $1,740.1 $ 273.2 $ 2,314.2 AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2001 LESS THAN 1 4 5 AFTER 5 CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS TOTAL YEAR 1 3 YEARS YEARS YEARS (IN MILLIONS) Long term debt(1)............... $1,378.4 $ 165.1 $ 288.8 $ 5.4 $ 919.1 Operating leases(2)............. 205.2 57.3 81.3 42.4 24.2 Non recourse medium term notes(3)...................... 3,298.4 160.2 966.3 813.4 1,358.5 Total contractual cash obligations................ $4,882.0 $ 382.6 $ 866.2 $ 518.0 $ 3,115.2 (1) The following are included in long term debt: On August 25, 1999, we issued $665.0 million of unsecured redeemable long term debt ($200.0 million of 7.95% notes due August 15, 2004, and $465.0 million in 8.2% notes due August 15, 2009). Interest on the notes is payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 of each year, commencing February 15, 2000. We used the net proceeds from the notes to partially fund the purchase of the outstanding stock of several companies affiliated with Bankers Trust Australia Group. The long term debt resides in our wholly owned subsidiary, PFSI. On March 10, 1994, Principal Life issued $300.0 million of surplus notes, including $200.0 million due March 1, 2024, at a 7.875% annual interest rate and the remaining $100.0 million due March 1, 2044, at an 8% annual interest rate. No affiliates of ours hold any portion of the notes. Each payment of interest and principal on the notes, however, may be made only with the prior approval of the Commissioner and only to the extent that Principal Life has sufficient surplus earnings to make such payments. For each of the years ended December 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, interest of $23.8 million was approved by the Commissioner, paid and charged to expense. Long term debt also includes mortgages and other notes payable related to real estate developments. Along with certain subsidiaries, we had $378.0 million in credit facilities with various financial institutions, in addition to obtaining loans with various lenders to finance real estate developments. Outstanding principal balances as of December 31, 2002, range from $0.2 million to $100.9 million per development with interest rates generally ranging from 6.0% to 8.6%. Outstanding principal balances as of 70 December 31, 2001, range from $0.1 million to $101.9 million per development with interest rates generally ranging from 7.2% to 8.6%. (2) As a lessee, we lease office space, data processing equipment, corporate aircraft and office furniture and equipment under various operating leases. (3) Non recourse medium term notes represent claims under funding agreements issued to institutional investors in international markets. Principal Life has a $4.0 billion European medium term note program, under which a consolidated offshore special purpose entity was created to issue nonrecourse medium term notes. Under the program, the proceeds of each note issuance are used to purchase a funding agreement from Principal Life, which is used to secure that particular series of notes. The payment terms of any particular series of notes match the payment terms of the funding agreement that secures that series. Claims for principal and interest under those international funding agreements are afforded equal priority of claims of life insurance and annuity policyholders under insolvency provisions of Iowa Insurance Laws and, accordingly, are reported as contractholder funds liabilities in Principal Lifes consolidated statement of financial position. The components of short term debt as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, are as follows: AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 (IN MILLIONS) Commercial paper..................... $ 157.5 $ 199.9 Other recourse short term debt....... 38.6 22.0 Non recourse short term debt......... 368.7 289.7 Total short term debt............. $ 564.8 $ 511.6 Short term debt consists primarily of commercial paper and outstanding balances on revolving credit facilities with various financial institutions. As of December 31, 2002, we had credit facilities with various financial institutions in an aggregate amount of $1.4 billion. These credit facilities include $700.0 million in credit facilities to finance a commercial mortgage backed securities ("CMBS") pipeline, and $100.0 million in credit facilities to purchase certain CMBS securities for investment purposes. In addition, we may borrow up to $600.0 million on a back stop facility to support our $1.0 billion commercial paper program, of which there were no outstanding balances as of December 31, 2002. The weighted average interest rates on short term borrowings as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, were 1.80% and 2.30%, respectively. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS We have entered into certain contracts to: 1) fund residential mortgage loan production, and 2) sell qualifying delinquent residential mortgage loans. As appropriate under U.S. GAAP, the contracts involve special purpose entities ("SPEs") or trusts that are not reported on our consolidated statement of financial position. RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE LOAN PRODUCTION. In June 2000, our mortgage banking segment created a special purpose bankruptcy remote entity, Principal Residential Mortgage Capital Resources, LLC ("PRMCR"), to provide an off balance sheet source of funding for our residential mortgage loan production. We sell eligible residential mortgage loans to PRMCR, where they are warehoused until sold to the final investor. We sold approximately $47.1 billion and $38.0 billion in mortgage loans to PRMCR in 2002 and 2001, respectively. The maximum amount of mortgage loans, which can be warehoused in PRMCR, has increased from $1.0 billion at inception to $4.0 billion as of December 31, 2002. PRMCR held $4.0 billion and $3.0 billion in mortgage loans held for sale as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The portfolio of loans held for sale by PRMCR must meet portfolio criteria, eligibility representations, and portfolio aging limitations. Based on these eligibility representations, we are required to 71 repurchase ineligible loans from PRMCR. During 2002, we repurchased $51.9 million of ineligible loans from PRMCR. PRMCR is capitalized by equity certificates owned by third party investors not affiliated with us or our affiliates, directors, or officers and thus, is not consolidated. The equity holders bear the risk of loss on defaulted mortgages. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, PRMCR had outstanding equity certificates of $193.0 million. PRMCR also issues short term secured liquidity notes as well as medium term notes to provide funds for its purchase of mortgage loans from us. At December 31, 2002, PRMCR had outstanding secured liquidity notes of $2.2 billion, three year fixed term notes of $800.0 million and five year variable term notes of $800.0 million. At December 31, 2001, PRMCR had outstanding secured liquidity notes of $1.3 billion, three year fixed term notes of $800.0 million and five year variable term notes of $800.0 million. All borrowings are collateralized by the assets of PRMCR. We paid a commitment fee to PRMCR based on the overall warehouse limit. PRMCR used a portion of the fee to fund a cash collateral account maintained at PRMCR. These funds are available as additional collateral to cover credit related losses on defaulted mortgage loans. The balance in the account was $24.0 million at December 31, 2002 and 2001, and is reflected in other assets on our consolidated statements of financial position. We maintain a right to the servicing of the mortgage loans held by PRMCR and retain servicing upon the sale of the majority of the mortgage loans to the final investors. As the servicer, we receive a monthly servicing fee and may earn additional incentive servicing fees upon successful completion of our servicing responsibilities. We received $23.3 million and $12.6 million in servicing and incentive servicing fees from PRMCR in 2002 and 2001, respectively. Any unpaid and earned incentive fees as well as any remaining amounts in the cash collateral account will be returned to us upon the termination of PRMCR. Additionally, as the servicer, we are required to advance to PRMCR those payments due from borrowers, but not received, as of specified cutoff dates. In addition, we perform certain secondary marketing, accounting and various administrative functions on behalf of PRMCR. In order to hedge interest rate risk and non credit related market value risk associated with its inventory of mortgage loans held for sale, PRMCR entered into swaps with counterparties not affiliated with us or PRMCR. The swap counterparties are required to maintain certain minimum ratings as approved by the rating agencies. Through separate swap agreements with the swap counterparties that mirror the original swaps with PRMCR, the interest rate risk and non credit related market value components are swapped back to us. DELINQUENT RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE LOAN FUNDING. In October 2000, our mortgage banking segment created a wholly owned, unconsolidated qualifying special purpose entity, Principal Residential Mortgage Funding, LLC ("PRMF"), to provide an off balance sheet source of funding for up to $250.0 million of qualifying delinquent mortgage loans. The limit was increased to $550.0 million in December 2002. We sell qualifying delinquent FHA and VA mortgage loans to PRMF which then transfers the loans to Principal Residential Mortgage EBO Trust ("Trust"), an unaffiliated Delaware business trust. The Trust funds its acquisitions of mortgage loans by selling participation certificates, representing an undivided interest in the Trust, to commercial paper conduit purchasers, who are not affiliated with us or any of our affiliates, directors or officers. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, the Trust held $405.1 million and $273.5 million in mortgage loans, respectively. and had outstanding participation certificates of $382.8 million and $256.9 million, respectively. Residential mortgage loans typically remain in the Trust until they are processed through the foreclosure claim process, are paid off or reinstate. Mortgage loans that reinstate are no longer eligible to remain in the Trust and are required to be removed at fair market value by us at the monthly settlement date following reinstatement. We are retained as the servicer of the mortgage loans and also perform accounting and various administrative functions on behalf of PRMF, in our capacity as the managing member of PRMF. As the servicer, we receive a servicing fee pursuant to the pooling and servicing agreement. We may also receive a successful servicing fee only after all other conditions in the monthly cash flow distribution are met. We received $23.4 million and $8.5 million in servicing and successful servicing fees from PRMF in 2002 and 2001, respectively. At December 31, 2002 and 2001, our residual interest in such cash flows was $32.7 million and $21.5 million, respectively, and was recorded in 72 other assets on the consolidated statements of financial position. The value of the residual interest was based on the net present value of expected cash flows from PRMF, reduced by estimates of foreclosure losses associated with the related loans. We are required to advance funds for payment of interest on the participation certificates and other carrying costs, if sufficient cash is not available in the trust collection account to meet this obligation. We and the Trust are parties to a cost of funds hedge agreement. We pay the weighted average cost of funds on the participation certificates plus fees and expenses and receive weighted average coupon of mortgage loans in the Trust less a spread. GUARANTEES AND INDEMNIFICATIONS Our fundamental business approach is to avoid guarantees or other commitments to or on behalf of affiliated companies of Principal Financial Group, Inc. Affiliates are encouraged to operate as autonomously as possible; however, there are instances where a rated entity within Principal Financial Group, Inc. provides a guarantee to or on behalf of an affiliate. The guarantees typically supplement a partially secured transaction, but require the additional enhancement provided by the guarantee to make the transaction more economical for our organization. Various businesses throughout our organization have a range of standard guarantees and commitments to or on behalf of affiliated entities within the organization in connection with managing the risks of these businesses. We continually manage liabilities that have any acceleration, additional collateral support, changes in terms, or creation of additional financial obligations in our regular liquidity analysis. We have found all of these obligations to be manageable and do not believe they materially impact our liquidity or capital resources. In the normal course of business, we have provided guarantees to third parties primarily on behalf of real estate associates, a former subsidiary and joint ventures. These agreements generally expire from 2003 through 2015. The estimated maximum exposure under these agreements is approximately $155.0 million; however, we believe the likelihood is remote that material payments will be required and therefore have not accrued for a liability on our consolidated statement of financial position. Should we be required to perform under these guarantees, we could recover a portion of the loss from third parties through recourse provisions included in agreements with such parties, the sale of assets held as collateral that can be liquidated in the event that performance is required under the guarantees or other recourse available to us, minimizing the impact to our results of operations. We are also subject to certain indemnification obligations under agreements with previously sold subsidiaries and other transactions arising under the normal course of business. While we are unable to estimate with certainty the ultimate legal and financial liability with respect to these indemnifications, we believe the likelihood is remote that material payments would be required under such indemnifications and therefore would not result in a material adverse affect on our business, financial position or results of operations. INVESTMENTS We had total consolidated assets as of December 31, 2002, of $89.9 billion, of which $49.0 billion were invested assets. The rest of our total consolidated assets are comprised primarily of separate account assets for which we do not bear investment risk. Because we generally do not bear any investment risk on assets held in separate accounts, the discussion and financial information below does not include such assets. Of our invested assets, $47.5 billion were held by our U.S. operations and the remaining $1.5 billion were held by our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment. U.S. INVESTMENT OPERATIONS Our U.S. invested assets are managed by Principal Global Investors, a subsidiary of Principal Life. Our primary investment objective is to maximize after tax returns consistent with acceptable risk parameters. We seek to protect 73 policyholders benefits by optimizing the risk/return relationship on an ongoing basis, through asset/liability matching, reducing the credit risk, avoiding high levels of investments that may be redeemed by the issuer, maintaining sufficiently liquid investments and avoiding undue asset concentrations through diversification. We are exposed to three primary sources of investment risk: o credit risk, relating to the uncertainty associated with the continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments of principal and interest; o interest rate risk, relating to the market price and or cash flow variability associated with changes in market yield curves; and o equity risk, relating to adverse fluctuations in a particular common stock. Our ability to manage credit risk is essential to our business and our profitability. We devote considerable resources to the credit analysis of each new investment. We manage credit risk through industry, issuer and asset class diversification. Our Investment Committee, appointed by our board of directors, establishes all investment policies and reviews and approves all investments. As of December 31, 2002, there are eleven members on the Investment Committee, one of whom is a member of our board of directors. The remaining members are senior management members representing various areas of our company. We also seek to reduce call or prepayment risk arising from changes in interest rates in individual investments. We limit our exposure to investments that are prepayable without penalty prior to maturity at the option of the issuer, and we require additional yield on these investments to compensate for the risk that the issuer will exercise such option. We assess option risk in all investments we make and, when we take that risk, we price for it accordingly. Our Fixed Income Securities Committee, consisting of fixed income securities senior management members, approves the credit rating for the fixed maturity securities we purchase. Teams of security analysts organized by industry focus either on the public or private markets and analyze and monitor these investments. In addition, we have teams who specialize in residential mortgage backed securities, commercial mortgage backed securities and public below investment grade securities. We establish a credit reviewed list of approved public issuers to provide an efficient way for our portfolio managers to purchase liquid bonds for which credit review has already been completed. Issuers remain on the list for six months unless removed by our analyst. Our analysts monitor issuers on the list on a continuous basis with a formal review documented every six months or more frequently if material events affect the issuer. The analysis includes both fundamental and technical factors. The fundamental analysis encompasses both quantitative and qualitative analysis of the issuer. The qualitative analysis includes an assessment of both accounting and management aggressiveness. In addition, technical indicators such as stock price volatility and credit default swap levels are monitored. Our Fixed Income Securities Committee also reviews private transactions on a continuous basis to assess the quality ratings of our privately placed investments. We regularly review our investments to determine whether we should re rate them, employing the following criteria: o material declines in the issuers revenues or margins; o significant management or organizational changes; o significant uncertainty regarding the issuers industry; o debt service coverage or cash flow ratios that fall below industry specific thresholds; o violation of financial covenants; and o other business factors that relate to the issuer. 74 A dedicated risk management team is responsible for centralized monitoring of the commercial mortgage portfolio. We apply a variety of strategies to minimize credit risk in our commercial mortgage loan portfolio. When considering the origination of new commercial mortgage loans, we review the cash flow fundamentals of the property, make a physical assessment of the underlying security, conduct a comprehensive market analysis and compare against industry lending practices. We use a proprietary risk rating model to evaluate all new and a majority of existing loans within the portfolio. The proprietary risk model is designed to stress projected cash flows under simulated economic and market downturns. Our lending guidelines are designed to encourage 75% or less loan to value ratios and a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.2 times. We analyze investments outside of these guidelines based on cash flow quality, tenancy and other factors. The weighted average loan to value ratio at origination for brick and mortar commercial mortgages in our portfolio was 67% and the debt service coverage ratio at loan inception was 1.9 times as of December 31, 2002. We have limited exposure to equity risk in our common stock portfolio. Equity securities accounted for only 1% of our U.S. invested assets as of December 31, 2002. Our investment decisions and objectives are a function of the underlying risks and product profiles of each primary business operation. In addition, we diversify our product portfolio offerings to include products that contain features that will protect us against fluctuations in interest rates. Those features include adjustable crediting rates, policy surrender charges and market value adjustments on liquidations. For further information on our management of interest rate risk, see Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk". OVERALL COMPOSITION OF U.S. INVESTED ASSETS U.S. invested assets as of December 31, 2002, were predominantly of high quality and broadly diversified across asset class, individual credit, industry and geographic location. As shown in the following table, the major categories of U.S. invested assets are fixed maturity securities and commercial mortgages. The remainder is invested in real estate, equity securities and other assets. In addition, policy loans are included in our invested assets. The following discussion analyzes the composition of U.S. invested assets, but excludes invested assets of the participating separate accounts. U.S. INVESTED ASSETS AS OF DECEMBER 31, AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 CARRYING % OF CARRYING % OF AMOUNT TOTAL AMOUNT TOTAL ($ IN MILLIONS) Fixed maturity securities Public......................................... $ 22,766.8 48% $ 18,227.6 42% Private........................................ 10,440.3 22 10,800.2 25 Equity securities................................. 358.1 1 812.3 2 Mortgage loans Commercial .................................... 9,365.8 20 9,740.4 22 Residential.................................... 1,463.6 3 1,144.2 3 Real estate held for sale ........................ 179.5 390.7 1 Real estate held for investment................... 1,042.1 2 783.4 2 Policy loans...................................... 818.5 2 831.9 2 Other investments ................................ 1,075.5 2 663.7 1 Total invested assets.......................... $ 47,510.2 100% $ 43,394.4 100% Cash and cash equivalents......................... 941.5 495.8 Total invested assets and cash ................ $ 48,451.7 $ 43,890.2 75 We actively manage public fixed maturity securities, including our portfolio of residential mortgage backed securities, in order to provide liquidity and enhance yield and total return. Our residential mortgage backed securities are managed to reduce the risk of prepayment by holding securities that trade close to par. This active management has resulted in the realization of capital gains and losses with respect to such investments. FIXED MATURITY SECURITIES Fixed maturity securities consist of short term investments, publicly traded debt securities, privately placed debt securities and redeemable preferred stock, and represented 70% of total U.S. invested assets as of December 31, 2002 and 67% as of December 31, 2001. The fixed maturity securities portfolio was comprised, based on carrying amount, of 69% in publicly traded fixed maturity securities and 31% in privately placed fixed maturity securities as of December 31, 2002, and 63% in publicly traded fixed maturity securities and 37% in privately placed fixed maturity securities as of December 31, 2001. Included in the privately placed category as of December 31, 2002, were $3.8 billion of securities eligible for resale to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933. Fixed maturity securities were diversified by category of issuer as of December 31, 2002, and December 31, 2001, as shown in the following table: U.S. INVESTED ASSETS FIXED MATURITY SECURITIES BY TYPE OF ISSUER AS OF DECEMBER 31, AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 CARRYING % OF CARRYING % OF AMOUNT TOTAL AMOUNT TOTAL ($ IN MILLIONS) U.S. Treasury securities and obligations of U.S. Government corporations and agencies................ $ 518.6 2% $ 15.1 % States and political subdivisions...................... 426.3 1 317.5 1 Foreign governments.................................... 380.5 1 603.5 2 Corporate public..................................... 17,061.2 52 13,038.8 45 Corporate private.................................... 8,777.5 26 9,171.1 32 Residential pass through securities.................... 2,327.0 7 2,855.5 10 Commercial MBS......................................... 2,476.4 7 1,874.1 6 Asset backed securities................................ 1,239.6 4 1,152.2 4 Total fixed maturities............................. $ 33,207.1 100% $ 29,027.8 100% We held $6,043.0 million of mortgage backed and asset backed securities as of December 31, 2002, and $5,881.8 million as of December 31, 2001. We believe that it is desirable to hold residential mortgage backed securities due to their credit quality and liquidity as well as portfolio diversification characteristics. Our portfolio is comprised of GNMA, FNMA and FHLMC pass through securities and is actively managed to reduce the risk of prepayment by holding securities that are trading close to par. Commercial mortgage backed securities provide high levels of credit protection, diversification, reduced event risk and enhanced liquidity. Commercial mortgage backed securities are predominantly comprised of rated large pool securitizations that are individually and collectively diverse by property type, borrower and geographic dispersion. We purchase asset backed securities, ("ABS"), to diversify the overall credit risks of the fixed maturity securities portfolio and to provide attractive returns. The principal risks in holding asset backed securities are structural and credit risks. Structural risks include the securitys priority in the issuers capital structure, the adequacy of and ability to realize proceeds from the collateral and the potential for prepayments. Credit risks involve 76 issuer/servicer risk where collateral values can become impaired in the event of servicer credit deterioration. Our ABS portfolio is diversified both by type of asset and by issuer. We actively monitor holdings of asset backed securities to ensure that the risk profile of each security improves or remains consistent. If we are not receiving an adequate yield for the risk, relative to other investment opportunities, we will attempt to sell the security. Prepayments in the ABS portfolio are, in general, insensitive to changes in interest rates or are insulated to such changes by call protection features. In the event that we are subject to prepayment risk, we monitor the factors that impact the level of prepayment and prepayment speed for those asset backed securities. To the extent we believe that prepayment risk increases, we may attempt to sell the security and reinvest in another security that offers better yield relative to the risk. In addition, we diversify the risks of asset backed securities by holding a diverse class of securities, which limits our exposure to any one security. In accordance with our asset liability risk management techniques, we manage the expected lives of U.S. invested assets to be similar to the lives of our liabilities. Significant amounts of our liabilities have an expected life of six years or less. Therefore, comparable amounts of assets have a similar expected life. The international exposure in our U.S. invested assets totaled $4,259.7 million, or 13%, of total fixed maturity securities, as of December 31, 2002, comprised of corporate and foreign government fixed maturity securities. Of the $4,259.7 million as of December 31, 2002, investments totaled $1,259.3 million in the United Kingdom, $849.7 million in the continental European Union, $550.7 million in Asia, $354.9 million in Australia, $353.0 million in South America and $21.3 million in Japan. The remaining $870.8 million was invested in 12 other countries. All international fixed maturity securities held by our U.S. operations are either denominated in U.S. dollars or have been swapped into U.S. dollar equivalents. Our international investments are analyzed internally by country and industry credit investment professionals. We control concentrations using issuer and country level exposure benchmarks, which are based on the credit quality of the issuer and the country. Our investment policy limits total international fixed maturity securities investments to 15% of total statutory general account assets with a 4% limit in emerging markets. Exposure to Canada is not included in our international exposure due to its treatment by the NAIC. As of December 31, 2002, our investments in Canada totaled $1,261.1 million. As of December 31, 2002, no individual non government issuer represented more than 1% of U.S. invested assets. The Securities Valuation Office of the NAIC evaluates most of the fixed maturity securities that we and other U.S. insurance companies hold. The Securities Valuation Office evaluates the bond investments of insurers for regulatory reporting purposes and assigns securities to one of six investment categories. The NAIC Designations closely mirror the nationally recognized securities rating organizations credit ratings for marketable bonds. NAIC Designations 1 and 2 include bonds considered investment grade by such rating organizations. Bonds are considered investment grade when rated "Baa3" or higher by Moodys, or "BBB " or higher by Standard & Poors. NAIC Designations 3 through 6 are referred to as below investment grade. Bonds are considered below investment grade when rated "Ba1" or lower by Moodys, or "BB+" or lower by Standard & Poors. We also monitor the credit drift of our corporate fixed maturity securities portfolio. Credit drift is defined as the ratio of the percentage of rating downgrades, including defaults, divided by the percentage of rating upgrades. We measure credit drift once each fiscal year, assessing the changes in our internally developed credit ratings that have occurred during the year. Standard & Poors annual credit ratings drift ratio measures the credit rating change, within a specific year, of companies that have been assigned ratings by Standard & Poors. The annual internal credit drift ratio on corporate fixed maturity securities we held in our general account was 3.48 times compared to the Standard & Poors drift ratio of 4.14 times, as of December 31, 2002. 77 The following table presents our total fixed maturity securities by NAIC Designation and the equivalent ratings of the nationally recognized securities rating organizations as of December 31, 2002, and December 31, 2001, as well as the percentage, based on estimated fair value, that each designation comprises: U.S. INVESTED ASSETS TOTAL FIXED MATURITY SECURITIES BY CREDIT QUALITY AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2002 AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2001 % OF % OF RATING TOTAL TOTAL NAIC AGENCY AMORTIZED CARRYING CARRYING AMORTIZED CARRYING CARRYING RATING EQUIVALENT COST AMOUNT AMOUNT COST AMOUNT AMOUNT ($ IN MILLIONS) 1 Aaa/Aa/A............. $ 15,377.5 $16,539.9 50% $14,139.9 $ 14,756.2 51% 2 Baa.................. 12,921.8 13,657.4 41 11,720.0 12,034.6 42 3 Ba................... 2,168.8 2,080.8 6 1,602.0 1,560.4 5 4 B.................... 506.2 434.5 1 401.7 372.1 1 5 Caa and lower........ 215.6 162.5 1 92.4 90.8 6 In or near default.............. 371.0 332.0 1 240.9 213.7 1 Total fixed maturities....... $ 31,560.9 $33,207.1 100% $28,196.9 $ 29,027.8 100% We believe that our long term fixed maturity securities portfolio is well diversified among industry types and between publicly traded and privately placed securities. Each year we direct the majority of our net cash inflows into investment grade fixed maturity securities. Our current policy is to limit the percentage of cash flow invested in below investment grade assets to 7% of cash flow. As of December 31, 2002, we had invested 5% of new cash flow for the year in below investment grade assets. While the general account investment returns have improved due to the below investment grade asset class, we manage its growth strategically by limiting it to 10% of the total fixed maturity securities portfolios. We invest in privately placed fixed maturity securities to enhance the overall value of the portfolio, increase diversification and obtain higher yields than are possible with comparable quality public market securities. Generally, private placements provide broader access to management information, strengthened negotiated protective covenants, call protection features and, where applicable, a higher level of collateral. They are, however, generally not freely tradable because of restrictions imposed by federal and state securities laws and illiquid trading markets. As of December 31, 2002, the percentage, based on estimated fair value, of total publicly traded and privately placed fixed maturity securities that were investment grade with an NAIC Designation 1 or 2 was 91%. The following tables show the carrying amount of our corporate fixed maturity securities by Salomon industry category, as well as the percentage of the total corporate portfolio that each Salomon industry category comprises as of December 31, 2002, and December 31, 2001. 78 U.S. INVESTED ASSETS CORPORATE FIXED MATURITY SECURITIES PORTFOLIO BY SALOMON INDUSTRY AS OF DECEMBER 31, AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 % OF % OF CARRYING AMOUNT TOTAL CARRYING AMOUNT TOTAL ($ IN MILLIONS) INDUSTRY CLASS Finance Bank.......................... $ 2,431.5 9% $ 1,663.7 8% Finance Insurance..................... 1,006.8 4 356.9 2 Finance Other......................... 3,199.0 12 2,820.0 13 Industrial Construction............... 958.2 4 619.7 3 Industrial Energy..................... 2,959.5 11 2,486.1 11 Industrial Manufacturing.............. 5,882.5 23 4,767.7 21 Industrial Other...................... 133.1 1 85.6 Industrial Service.................... 3,932.7 15 3,137.0 14 Industrial Transport.................. 1,058.9 4 1,357.7 6 Utility Electric...................... 2,539.4 10 2,727.0 12 Utility Other......................... 161.4 1 172.5 1 Utility Telecom....................... 1,575.7 6 2,016.0 9 Total............................... $ 25,838.7 100% $ 22,209.9 100% We monitor any decline in the credit quality of fixed maturity securities through the designation of "problem securities", "potential problem securities" and "restructured securities". We define problem securities in our fixed maturity portfolio as securities: (i) as to which principal and or interest payments are in default or (ii) issued by a company that went into bankruptcy subsequent to the acquisition of such securities. We define potential problem securities in our fixed maturity portfolio as securities included on an internal "watch list" for which management has concerns as to the ability of the issuer to comply with the present debt payment terms and which may result in the security becoming a problem or being restructured. The decision whether to classify a performing fixed maturity security as a potential problem involves significant subjective judgments by our management as to the likely future industry conditions and developments with respect to the issuer. We define restructured securities in our fixed maturity portfolio as securities where a concession has been granted to the borrower related to the borrowers financial difficulties that would not have otherwise been considered. We determine that restructures should occur in those instances where greater economic value will be realized under the new terms than through liquidation or other disposition and may involve a change in contractual cash flows. In July 2002, WorldCom Inc. filed a voluntary petition for Chapter 11 reorganization with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court. We recognized realized losses for other than temporary impairments during the second quarter of 2002. Our remaining investment in WorldCom Inc. is classified in our problem fixed maturity securities portfolio in the amount of $13.4 million as of December 31, 2002. In December 2001, Enron Corp., along with certain of its subsidiaries, filed voluntary petitions for Chapter 11 reorganization with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court. We recognized realized losses in 2001 for other than temporary impairments and have classified our remaining investment in Enron Corp. and Enron related entities in our problem fixed maturity securities in the amount of $47.2 million as of December 31, 2002. The following table presents the total carrying amount of our fixed maturity portfolio, as well as its problem, potential problem and restructured fixed maturities for the years indicated: 79 U.S. INVESTED ASSETS PROBLEM, POTENTIAL PROBLEM AND RESTRUCTURED FIXED MATURITIES AT CARRYING AMOUNT AS OF DECEMBER 31, AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 ($ IN MILLIONS) Total fixed maturity securities (public and private)............ $ 33,207.1 $ 29,027.8 Problem fixed maturity securities............................... $ 262.0 $ 198.8 Potential problem fixed maturity securities..................... 508.4 365.1 Restructured fixed maturity securities.......................... 103.9 110.8 Total problem, potential problem and restructured fixed maturity securities........................................ $ 874.3 $ 674.7 Total problem, potential problem and restructured fixed maturity securities as a percent of total fixed maturity securities................................................. 3% 2% MORTGAGE LOANS Mortgage loans comprised 23% and 25% of total U.S. invested assets as of December 31, 2002, and December 31, 2001, respectively. Mortgage loans consist of commercial and residential loans. Commercial mortgage loans comprised $9,365.8 million as of December 31, 2002, and $9,740.4 million as of December 31, 2001, or 86% and 89%, of total mortgage loan investments, respectively. Residential mortgages comprised $1,463.6 million and $1,144.2 million, or 14% and 11%, of total mortgage loan investments as of December 31, 2002, and December 31, 2001, respectively. Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. and Principal Bank hold the majority of residential loans. Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. holds residential loans as part of its securitization inventory and Principal Bank holds residential loans to comply with federal thrift charter requirements. COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE LOANS. Commercial mortgages play an important role in our investment strategy by: o providing strong risk adjusted relative value in comparison to other investment alternatives; o enhancing total returns; and o providing strategic portfolio diversification. As a result, we have focused on constructing a solid, high quality portfolio of mortgages. Our portfolio is generally comprised of mortgages with conservative loan to value ratios, high debt service coverages and general purpose property types with a strong credit tenancy. Our commercial loan portfolio consists of primarily non recourse, fixed rate mortgages on fully or near fully leased properties. The mortgage portfolio is comprised of general purpose industrial properties, manufacturing office properties and credit oriented retail properties. California accounted for 21% of our commercial mortgage loan portfolio as of December 31, 2002. We are, therefore, exposed to potential losses resulting from the risk of catastrophes, such as earthquakes, that may affect the region. Like other lenders, we generally do not require earthquake insurance for properties on which we make commercial mortgage loans. With respect to California properties, however, we obtain an engineering report specific to each property. The report assesses the buildings design specifications, whether it has been upgraded to meet seismic building codes and the maximum loss that is likely to result from a variety of different seismic events. We also obtain a report that assesses by building and geographic fault lines the amount of loss our 80 commercial mortgage loan portfolio might suffer under a variety of seismic events. Our commercial loan portfolio is highly diversified by borrower. As of December 31, 2002, 43% of the U.S. commercial mortgage loan portfolio was comprised of mortgage loans with principal balances of less than $10.0 million. The total number of commercial mortgage loans outstanding as of December 31, 2002 and December 31, 2001 was 1,529 and 1,646, respectively. The average loan size of our commercial mortgage portfolio was $6.2 million as of December 31, 2002. As of such dates, all such loans were performing. We actively monitor and manage our commercial mortgage loan portfolio. Substantially all loans within the portfolio are analyzed regularly, based on a proprietary risk rating cash flow model, in order to monitor the financial quality of these assets and are internally rated. Based on ongoing monitoring, mortgage loans with a likelihood of becoming delinquent are identified and placed on an internal "watch list". Among criteria which would indicate a potential problem are: imbalances in ratios of loan to value or contract rents to debt service, major tenant vacancies or bankruptcies, borrower sponsorship problems, late payments, delinquent taxes and loan relief/restructuring requests. We state commercial mortgage loans at their unpaid principal balances, net of discount accrual and premium amortization, valuation allowances and write downs for impairment. We provide a valuation allowance for commercial mortgage loans based on past loan loss experience and for specific loans considered to be impaired. Mortgage loans are considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement may not be collected. When we determine that a loan is impaired, we establish a valuation allowance for loss for the excess of the carrying value of the mortgage loan over its estimated fair value. Estimated fair value is based on either the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loans original effective interest rate, the loans observable market price or the fair value of the collateral. We record increases in such valuation allowances as realized investment losses and, accordingly, we reflect such losses in our consolidated results of operations. Such increases (decreases) in valuation allowances aggregated $(7.1) million for the year ended December 31, 2002 and $(17.3) million for the year ended December 31, 2001. We review our mortgage loan portfolio and analyze the need for a valuation allowance for any loan which is delinquent for 60 days or more, in process of foreclosure, restructured, on the "watch list", or which currently has a valuation allowance. We categorize loans, which are delinquent, loans in process of foreclosure and loans to borrowers in bankruptcy as "problem" loans. Potential problem loans are loans placed on an internal "watch list" for which management has concerns as to the ability of the borrower to comply with the present loan payment terms and which may result in the loan becoming a problem or being restructured. The decision whether to classify a performing loan as a potential problem involves significant subjective judgments by management as to the likely future economic conditions and developments with respect to the borrower. We categorize loans for which the original terms of the mortgages have been modified or for which interest or principal payments have been deferred as "restructured" loans. We also consider matured loans that are refinanced at below market rates as restructured. We charge mortgage loans deemed to be uncollectible against the allowance for losses and credit subsequent recoveries to the allowance for losses. We maintain the allowance for losses at a level management believes to be adequate to absorb estimated probable credit losses. Management bases its periodic evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for losses on our past loan loss experience, known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrowers ability to repay, the estimated value of the underlying collateral, composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and other relevant factors. The evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires estimating the amounts and timing of future cash flows expected to be received on impaired loans that may change. 81 The following table represents our commercial mortgage valuation allowance for the years indicated: U.S. INVESTED ASSETS COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE VALUATION ALLOWANCE AS OF DECEMBER 31, AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 ($ IN MILLIONS) Beginning balance.......................................... $ 90.7 $ 108.0 Provision.................................................. 33.5 12.0 Release due to write downs, sales and foreclosures......... (40.6) (29.3) Ending balance....................................... $ 83.6 $ 90.7 Valuation allowance as % of carrying value before reserves. 1% 1% The following table presents the carrying amounts of problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages relative to the carrying amount of all commercial mortgages for the years indicated: U.S. INVESTED ASSETS PROBLEM, POTENTIAL PROBLEM AND RESTRUCTURED COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES AT CARRYING AMOUNT AS OF DECEMBER 31, AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 ($ IN MILLIONS) Total commercial mortgages ................................ $ 9,365.8 $ 9,740.4 Problem commercial mortgages(1)............................ $ 77.2 $ 47.1 Potential problem commercial mortgages .................... 50.4 98.9 Restructured commercial mortgages ......................... 46.9 42.4 Total problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages .................... $ 174.5 $ 188.4 Total problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages as a percent of total commercial 2% 2% (1) Problem commercial mortgages included mortgage loans in foreclosure of $0.4 million as of December 31, 2002. There were no mortgage loans in foreclosure as of December 31, 2001. 82 EQUITY REAL ESTATE We hold commercial equity real estate as part of our investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2002, and December 31, 2001, the carrying amount of equity real estate investment was $1,221.6 million and $1,174.1 million, or 2% and 3% of U.S. invested assets, respectively. We own real estate, real estate acquired upon foreclosure of commercial mortgage loans and interests, both majority owned and non majority owned, in real estate joint ventures. Equity real estate is categorized as either "real estate held for investment" or "real estate held for sale". Real estate held for investment totaled $1,042.1 million as of December 31, 2002, and $783.4 million as of December 31, 2001. The carrying value of real estate held for investment is generally adjusted for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. Such impairment adjustments are recorded as realized investment losses and accordingly, are reflected in our consolidated results of operations. For the years ended December 31, 2002 and December 31, 2001, there were no such impairment adjustments. The carrying amount of real estate held for sale as of December 31, 2002, and December 31, 2001, was $179.5 million and $390.7 million, net of valuation allowances of $19.3 million and $19.8 million, respectively. Once we identify a real estate property to be sold and commence a plan for marketing the property, we classify the property as held for sale. We establish a valuation allowance subject to periodical revisions, if necessary, to adjust the carrying value of the property to reflect the lower of its current carrying value or the fair value, less associated selling costs. We use research, both internal and external, to recommend appropriate product and geographic allocations and changes to the equity real estate portfolio. We monitor product, geographic and industry diversification separately and together to determine the most appropriate mix. Equity real estate is distributed across geographic regions of the country with larger concentrations in the South Atlantic, West South Central and Pacific regions of the United States as of December 31, 2002. By property type, there is a concentration in office buildings that represented approximately 31% of the equity real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2002. OTHER INVESTMENTS Our other investments totaled $1,075.5 million as of December 31, 2002, compared to $663.7 million as of December 31, 2001. With the adoption of SFAS 133 on January 1, 2001, derivatives were reflected on our balance sheet and accounted for $348.8 million in other investments as of December 31, 2002. The remaining invested assets include minority interests in unconsolidated entities and properties owned jointly with venture partners and operated by the partners. Our investment in Coventry is also included in other investments as we account for it using the equity method. As of December 31, 2001, our carrying value in Coventry was $146.0 million. On February 1, 2002, we sold our remaining investment in Coventry for a net realized gain. SECURITIES LENDING The terms of our securities lending program, approved in 1999, allow us to lend our securities to major brokerage firms. Our policy requires an initial minimum of 102% of the fair value of the loaned securities as collateral. Although we lend from time to time during the financial reporting quarters, we have no securities on loan as of December 31, 2002. INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENT OPERATIONS As of December 31, 2002, our international investment operations consist of the investments of Principal International comprised of $1.5 billion in invested assets. Invested assets related to BT Financial Group have been reclassified to assets of discontinued operations on our consolidated statements of financial 83 position. Principal Global Investors works with each Principal International affiliate to develop investment policies and strategies that are consistent with the products they offer. Due to the regulatory constraints in each country, each company maintains its own investment policies, which are approved by Principal Global Investors. Each international affiliate is required to submit a compliance report relative to its strategy to Principal Global Investors. Principal Global Investors employees and international affiliate company credit analysts jointly review each corporate credit annually. OVERALL COMPOSITION OF INTERNATIONAL INVESTED ASSETS As shown in the following table, the major categories of international invested assets as of December 31, 2002, and December 31, 2001, were fixed maturity securities and residential mortgage loans: INTERNATIONAL INVESTED ASSETS AS OF DECEMBER 31, AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 CARRYING % OF CARRYING % OF AMOUNT TOTAL AMOUNT TOTAL ($ IN MILLIONS) Fixed maturity securities Public......................................... $ 998.6 67% $ 941.3 68% Private........................................ 81.7 6 61.0 4 Equity securities................................. 20.6 1 24.9 2 Mortgage loans Residential.................................... 252.5 17 181.1 13 Real estate held for investment................... 7.4 1 7.7 1 Other investments ................................ 124.6 8 168.6 12 Total invested assets.......................... $ 1,485.4 100% $ 1,384.6 100% Cash and cash equivalents......................... 97.1 65.4 Total invested assets and cash ................ $ 1,582.5 $ 1,450.0 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK MARKET RISK EXPOSURES AND RISK MANAGEMENT Market risk is the risk that we will incur losses due to adverse fluctuations in market rates and prices. Our primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates, although we also have exposures to changes in equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. The active management of market risk is an integral part of our operations. We manage our overall market risk exposure within established risk tolerance ranges by using the following approaches: o rebalance our existing asset or liability portfolios; o control the risk structure of newly acquired assets and liabilities; or o use derivative instruments to modify the market risk characteristics of existing assets or liabilities or assets expected to be purchased. INTEREST RATE RISK 84 Interest rate risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse changes in interest rates. Our exposure to interest rate risk stems largely from our substantial holdings of guaranteed fixed rate liabilities in our U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment. We manage the interest rate risk inherent in our assets relative to the interest rate risk inherent in our liabilities. One of the measures we use to quantify this exposure is duration. To calculate duration, we project asset and liability cash flows. These cash flows are discounted to a net present value basis using a spot yield curve, which is a blend of the spot yield curves for each of the asset types in the portfolio. Duration is calculated by re calculating these cash flows and re determining the net present value based upon an alternative level of interest rates, and determining the percentage change in fair value. As of December 31, 2002, the difference between the asset and liability durations on our primary duration managed portfolio was 0.09 years. This duration gap indicates that as of this date the sensitivity of the fair value of our assets to interest rate movements is greater than that of the fair value of our liabilities. Our goal is to minimize the duration gap. Currently, our guidelines dictate that total duration gaps between the asset and liability portfolios must be within 0.25 years. The value of the assets in this portfolio was $26,344.1 million as of December 31, 2002. For products such as whole life insurance and term life insurance that are less sensitive to interest rate risk, and for other products such as single premium deferred annuities, we manage interest rate risk based on a modeling process that considers the target average life, maturities, crediting rates and assumptions of policyholder behavior. As of December 31, 2002, the weighted average difference between the asset and liability durations on these portfolios was (0.49) years. This duration gap indicates that as of this date the sensitivity of the fair value of our assets to interest rate movements is less than that of the fair value of our liabilities. We attempt to monitor this duration gap consistent with our overall risk/reward tolerances. The value of the assets in these portfolios was $10,145.7 million as of December 31, 2002. We also have a block of participating general account pension business that passes the actual investment performance of the assets to the customer. The investment strategy of this block is to maximize investment return to the customer on a "best efforts" basis, and there is little or no attempt to manage the duration of this portfolio since there is little or no interest rate risk. The value of the assets in these portfolios was $5,577.6 million as of December 31, 2002. Using the assumptions and data in effect as of December 31, 2002, we estimate that a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase in interest rates increases the net fair value of our portfolio by $25.9 million. The following table details the estimated changes by risk management strategy: AS OF RISK MANAGEMENT DECEMBER 31, 2002 NET FAIR VALUE STRATEGY VALUE OF TOTAL ASSETS CHANGE (IN MILLIONS) Primary duration managed........................... $ 26,344.1 $ (23.7) Duration monitored................................. 10,145.7 49.6 Non duration managed............................... 5,577.6 Total.............................................. $ 42,067.4 $ 25.9 We are also exposed to interest rate risk in our Mortgage Banking segment. We manage this risk by striving to balance our loan origination and loan servicing operations, the two of which are generally counter cyclical. In addition, we use various financial instruments, including derivatives contracts, to manage the interest rate risk specifically related to committed loans in the pipeline and mortgage servicing rights. The overall objective of our interest rate risk management policies is to offset changes in the values of these items resulting from changes in interest rates. We do not speculate on the direction of interest rates in our management of interest rate risk. 85 We manage interest rate risk on our mortgage loan pipeline by buying and selling mortgage backed securities in the forward markets, over the counter options on mortgage backed securities, U.S. Treasury and Eurodollar futures contracts and options on futures contracts. We also use interest rate floors, futures contracts, options on futures contracts, swaps and swaptions, mortgage backed securities and principal only strips in hedging a portion of our portfolio of mortgage servicing rights from prepayment risk associated with changes in interest rates. We measure pipeline interest rate risk exposure by adjusting the at risk pipeline in light of the theoretical optionality of each applicants rate/price commitment. The at risk pipeline, which consists of closed loans and rate locks, is then refined at the product type level to express each products sensitivity to changes in market interest rates in terms of a single current coupon MBS duration ("benchmark interest rate"). Suitable hedges are selected and a similar methodology applied to this hedge position. The variety of hedging instruments allows us to match the behavior of the financial instrument with that of the different types of loans originated. Price sensitivity analysis is performed at least once daily. The face amount of the loans in the pipeline as of December 31, 2002, was $12.9 billion. Due to the impact of our hedging activities, we estimate that a 100 basis point immediate and sustained increase in the benchmark interest rates decreases the December 31, 2002, net position value by $60.8 million. The financial risk associated with our mortgage servicing operations is the risk that the fair value of the servicing asset falls below its U.S. GAAP book value. To measure this risk, we analyze each servicing risk tranches U.S. GAAP book value in relation to the then current fair value for similar servicing rights. We perform this valuation using option adjusted spread valuation techniques applied to each risk tranche. We produce tranche fair values at least monthly and model our net servicing hedge position at least daily. The fair value of the servicing asset declines as interest rates decrease due to possible mortgage loan servicing rights impairment that may result from increased current and projected future prepayment activity. The change in value of the servicing asset due to interest rate movements is partially offset by the use of financial instruments, including derivative contracts that typically increase in aggregate value when interest rates decline. Based on values as of December 31, 2002, a 100 basis point immediate parallel and sustained decrease in interest rates produces a $4.0 million decline in value of the servicing asset of our Mortgage Banking segment, net of the impact of these hedging vehicles, due to the differences between fair values and U.S. GAAP book values. CASH FLOW VOLATILITY Cash flow volatility arises as a result of several factors. One is the inherent difficulty in perfectly matching the cash flows of new asset purchases with that of new liabilities. Another factor is the inherent cash flow volatility of some classes of assets and liabilities. In order to minimize cash flow volatility, we manage differences between expected asset and liability cash flows within pre established guidelines. We also seek to minimize cash flow volatility by restricting the portion of securities with redemption features held in our invested asset portfolio. These asset securities include redeemable corporate securities, mortgage backed securities or other assets with options that, if exercised, could alter the expected future cash inflows. In addition, we limit sales liabilities with features such as puts or other options that may change the cash flow profile of the liability portfolio. DERIVATIVES We use various derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, including interest rate swaps, principal only swaps, interest rate floors, swaptions, U.S. Treasury futures, Treasury rate guarantees, interest rate lock commitments and mortgage backed forwards and options. We use interest rate futures contracts and mortgage backed forwards to hedge changes in interest rates subsequent to the issuance of an insurance liability, such as a guaranteed investment contract, but prior to the purchase of a supporting asset, or during periods of holding assets in anticipation of near term liability sales. We use interest rate swaps and principal only swaps primarily to more closely match the interest rate characteristics of assets and 86 liabilities. They can be used to change the sensitivity to the interest rate of specific assets and liabilities as well as an entire portfolio. Occasionally, we will sell a callable liability or a liability with attributes similar to a call option. In these cases, we will use interest rate swaptions or similar products to hedge the risk of early liability payment thereby transforming the callable liability into a fixed term liability. We also seek to reduce call or prepayment risk arising from changes in interest rates in individual investments. We limit our exposure to investments that are prepayable without penalty prior to maturity at the option of the issuer, and we require additional yield on these investments to compensate for the risk that the issuer will exercise such option. An example of an investment we limit because of the option risk is residential mortgage backed securities. We assess option risk in all investments we make and, when we assume such risk, we seek to price for it accordingly to achieve an appropriate return on our investments. We have increased our credit exposure through credit default swaps by investing in subordinated tranches of a synthetic collateralized debt obligation. The outstanding notional amount as of December 31, 2002 was $500.0 million and the mark to market value was $3.0 million pre tax. We also invested in credit swaps creating replicated assets with a notional of $205.3 million and mark to market value of $(2.1) million as of December 31, 2002. In conjunction with our use of derivatives, we are exposed to counterparty risk, or the risk that counterparty fails to perform the terms of the derivative contract. We actively manage this risk by: o establishing exposure limits which take into account non derivative exposure we have with the counterparty as well as derivative exposure; o performing similar credit analysis prior to approval on each derivatives counterparty that we do when lending money on a long term basis; o diversifying our risk across numerous approved counterparties; o limiting exposure to A+ credit or better; o conducting stress test analysis to determine the maximum exposure created during the life of a prospective transaction; and o daily monitoring of counterparty credit ratings. All new derivative counterparties are approved by the investment committee. We believe the risk of incurring losses due to nonperformance by our counterparties is manageable. The notional amounts used to express the extent of our involvement in swap transactions represent a standard measurement of the volume of our swap business. Notional amount is not a quantification of market risk or credit risk and it may not necessarily be recorded on the balance sheet. Notional amounts represent those amounts used to calculate contractual flows to be exchanged and are not paid or received, except for contracts such as currency swaps. Actual credit exposure represents the amount owed to us under derivative contracts as of the valuation date. The following tables present our position in, and credit exposure to, derivative financial instruments as of December 31, 2002, and December 31, 2001: 87 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS NOTIONAL AMOUNTS AS OF DECEMBER 31, AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 NOTIONAL % OF NOTIONAL % OF AMOUNT TOTAL AMOUNT TOTAL ($ IN MILLIONS) Mortgage backed forwards and options............ $ 17,494.9 33% $ 9,250.7 34% Swaptions ...................................... 9,772.5 18 3,570.0 13 Interest rate swaps............................. 9,719.2 18 3,272.5 12 Interest rate lock commitments.................. 8,198.1 15 2,565.9 9 Foreign currency swaps.......................... 3,217.0 6 4,091.9 15 U.S. Treasury futures (LIBOR)................... 2,225.0 4 Interest rate floors............................ 1,650.0 3 3,400.0 12 Credit default swaps ........................... 705.2 1 Bond forwards................................... 363.7 1 357.4 1 U.S. Treasury futures........................... 271.1 1 186.6 1 Principal Only swaps............................ 123.6 250.0 1 Treasury rate guarantees........................ 63.0 88.0 Call options.................................... 30.0 30.0 Currency forwards............................... 0.2 393.4 2 Total return swaps.............................. 25.0 Total........................................ $ 53,833.5 100% $27,481.4 100% DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CREDIT EXPOSURES AS OF DECEMBER 31, AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2002 2001 CREDIT % OF CREDIT % OF EXPOSURE TOTAL EXPOSURE TOTAL ($ IN MILLIONS) Foreign currency swaps.......................... $ 195.0 68% $ 101.1 33% Interest rate swaps............................. 48.4 17 78.4 25 Swaptions ...................................... 31.4 11 8.7 3 Credit default swaps............................ 8.9 3 Interest rate floors............................ 1.7 1 13.2 4 Call options.................................... 0.4 8.9 3 Currency forwards............................... 55.3 18 Total return swaps.............................. 0.1 Mortgage backed forwards and options............ 41.7 14 Total........................................ $ 285.8 100% $ 307.4 100% The following table shows the interest rate sensitivity of our derivatives measured in terms of fair value. These exposures will change as a result of ongoing portfolio and risk management activities. 88 AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2002 FAIR VALUE (NO ACCRUED INTEREST) WEIGHTED AVERAGE TERM 100 BASIS +100 BASIS NOTIONAL AMOUNT (YEARS) POINT CHANGE NO CHANGE POINT CHANGE ($ IN MILLIONS) Interest rate swaps.................. $ 9,719.2 4.90(1) $ 74.6 $ 147.1 $ (230.1) Principal only swaps................. 123.6 1.82(1) 10.6 3.1 (11.7) Interest rate floors................. 1,650.0 3.50(2) 38.9 41.6 (23.3) U.S. Treasury futures................ 271.1 0.22(3) (1.5) (1.9) 0.9 U.S. Treasury futures (LIBOR)........ 2,225.0 0.86(3) (5.6) (3.9) 5.6 Swaptions............................ 9,772.5 1.09(4) 289.3 232.8 (25.3) Treasury rate guarantees............. 63.0 0.10(5) (5.3) (1.0) 3.3 Bond forwards........................ 363.7 0.73(5) 49.9 27.6 5.6 Mortgage backed forwards and options. 17,494.9 0.07(5) (152.2) (56.4) 162.2 Interest rate lock commitments....... 8,198.1 0.12(6) 59.7 128.6 (225.1) Total............................. $ 49,881.1 $ 358.4 $ 517.6 $ (337.9) (1) Based on maturity date of swap. (2) Based on maturity date of of floor. (3) Based no maturity date. (4) Based on option date of swaption. (5) Based on settlement date. (6) Based on expiration date. We use U.S. Treasury futures to manage our over/under commitment position, and our position in these contracts changes daily. DEBT ISSUED AND OUTSTANDING As of December 31, 2002, the aggregate fair value of debt was $1,459.3 million. A 100 basis point, immediate, parallel decrease in interest rates would increase the fair value of debt by approximately $62.2 million. AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2002 FAIR VALUE (NO ACCRUED INTEREST) 100 BASIS +100 BASIS POINT CHANGE NO CHANGE POINT CHANGE (IN MILLIONS) 7.95% notes payable, due 2004...................... $ 219.1 $ 215.7 $ 212.4 8.2% notes payable, due 2009....................... 572.6 542.8 514.8 7.875% surplus notes payable, due 2024............. 218.6 209.2 195.4 8% surplus notes payable, due 2044................. 117.0 105.1 94.4 Non recourse mortgages and notes payable........... 271.6 263.9 256.7 Other mortgages and notes payable.................. 122.6 122.6 122.6 Total long term debt............................ $ 1,521.5 $ 1,459.3 $ 1,396.3 EQUITY RISK Equity risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse fluctuations in a particular common stock. As of December 31, 2002, the fair value of our equity securities was $378.7 million. A 10% decline in the value of the equity securities would result in an unrealized loss of $37.9 million. FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK 89 Foreign currency risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. This risk arises from our international operations and foreign currency denominated funding agreements issued to non qualified institutional investors in the international market. The notional amount of our currency swap agreements associated with foreign denominated liabilities as of December 31, 2002, was $2,934.6 million. We also have fixed maturity securities that are denominated in foreign currencies. However, we use derivatives to hedge the foreign currency risk, both interest payments and the final maturity payment, of these funding agreements and securities. As of December 31, 2002, the fair value of our foreign currency denominated fixed maturity securities was $311.2 million. We use currency swap agreements of the same currency to hedge the foreign currency exchange risk related to these investments. The notional amount of our currency swap agreements associated with foreign denominated fixed maturity securities as of December 31, 2002, was $282.4 million. With regard to our international operations, we attempt to do as much of our business as possible in the functional currency of the country of operation. At times, however, we are unable to do so, and in these cases, we use foreign exchange derivatives to hedge the resulting risks. We estimate that as of December 31, 2002, a 10% immediate unfavorable change in each of the foreign currency exchange rates to which we are exposed would result in no change to the net fair value of our foreign currency denominated instruments identified above, including the currency swap agreements. The selection of a 10% immediate unfavorable change in all currency exchange rates should not be construed as a prediction by us of future market events, but rather as an illustration of the potential impact of such an event. EFFECTS OF INFLATION We do not believe that inflation, in the United States or in the other countries in which we operate, has had a material effect on our consolidated operations over the past five years. In the future, however, we may be affected by inflation to the extent it causes interest rates to rise. 90 
 
