ITEM 7. MANAGEMENTS DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following analysis discusses our financial condition as of December 31, 2003, compared with December 31, 2002, and our consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, and, where appropriate, factors that may affect our future financial performance. The discussion should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes to the financial statements and the other financial information included elsewhere in this Form 10 K. 27 FORWARD LOOKING INFORMATION Our narrative analysis below contains forward looking statements intended to enhance the readers ability to assess our future financial performance. Forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that represent our beliefs concerning future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments, and contain words and phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," and similar expressions. Forward looking statements are made based upon managements current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects on us. Such forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those included in the forward looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to the following: (1) a decline or increased volatility in the securities markets could result in investors withdrawing from the markets or decreasing their rates of investment, either of which could reduce our net income, revenues and assets under management; (2) our investment portfolio is subject to several risks which may diminish the value of our invested assets and affect our sales, profitability and the investment returns credited to our customers; (3) competition from companies that may have greater financial resources, broader arrays of products, higher ratings and stronger financial performance may impair our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers and maintain our profitability; (4) a downgrade in Principal Life Insurance Companys ("Principal Life") financial strength ratings may increase policy surrenders and withdrawals, reduce new sales and terminate relationships with distributors and cause some of our existing liabilities to be subject to acceleration, additional collateral support, changes in terms, or creation of additional financial obligations; (5) our efforts to reduce the impact of interest rate changes on our profitability and surplus may not be effective; (6) if we are unable to attract and retain sales representatives and develop new distribution sources, sales of our products and services may be reduced; (7) our international businesses face political, legal, operational and other risks that could reduce our profitability in those businesses; (8) our reserves established for future policy benefits and claims may prove inadequate, requiring us to increase liabilities; (9) our ability to pay stockholder dividends and meet our obligations may be constrained by the limitations on dividends Iowa insurance laws impose on Principal Life; (10) we may need to fund deficiencies in our closed block ("Closed Block") assets which benefit only the holders of Closed Block policies; (11) changes in laws, regulations or accounting standards may reduce our profitability; (12) litigation and regulatory investigations may harm our financial strength and reduce our profitability; (13) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could reduce our profitability; (14) applicable laws and our stockholder rights plan, certificate of incorporation and by laws may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider in their best interests; and (15) a downgrade in our debt ratings may adversely affect our ability to secure funds and cause some of our existing liabilities to be subject to acceleration, additional collateral support, changes in terms, or creation of additional financial obligations. OVERVIEW We provide financial products and services through the following segments: o U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation, which consists of our asset accumulation operations which provide products and services, including retirement savings and related investment products and services, and our asset management operations conducted through Principal Global Investors. We provide a comprehensive portfolio of asset accumulation products and services to businesses and individuals in the U.S., with a concentration on small and medium sized businesses, which we define as businesses with fewer than 1,000 employees. We offer to businesses products and services for defined contribution pension plans, including 401(k) and 403(b) plans, defined benefit pension plans,non qualified executive benefit plans, and employee stock ownership plan consulting services. We also offer annuities, mutual funds and bank products and services to the employees of our business customers and other individuals. o International Asset Management and Accumulation, which consists of Principal International, offers retirement products and services, annuities, long term mutual funds and life insurance through subsidiaries in Argentina, Chile, Mexico, Hong Kong and India and joint ventures in Brazil, Japan, and Malaysia. Prior to October 31, 2002, the operating segment included BT Financial Group, an Australia based asset manager. We 28 sold substantially all of BT Financial Group, effective October 31, 2002. See "Transactions Affecting Comparability of Results of Operations." o Life and Health Insurance, which provides life insurance, health insurance as well as disability insurance throughout the U.S. Our life insurance products include universal and variable universal life, traditional life, and group life. Our health insurance products include medical insurance, dental and vision insurance, and administrative services. Our disability insurance products include individual and group disability insurance. o Mortgage Banking, which engages in originating, purchasing, selling and servicing residential mortgage loans in the U.S. Corporate and Other, which manages the assets representing capital that has not been allocated to any other segment. Financial results of the Corporate and Other segment primarily reflect our financing activities (including interest expense), income on capital not allocated to other segments, intersegment eliminations, income tax risks and certain income, expenses and other after tax adjustments not allocated to the segments based on the nature of such items. ECONOMIC FACTORS AND TRENDS The declining interest rate environment and poor performance in the equity markets in 2002 slowed our growth in asset accumulation account values for that year in our U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment. Improvements in the equity markets in 2003 contributed to a significant increase in account values by the end of 2003. In our International Asset and Accumulation segment, we continued to grow our existing business through organic growth in our existing subsidiaries and a combination of joint ventures and strategic acquisitions. During 2002 and 2003, sales of life insurance have continued to shift from traditional insurance products to universal and variable universal products in our Life and Health Insurance segment. While health insurance membership has declined over the past few years, premium revenue has grown due to price increases and, to some degree, due to the impact of reinsurance. Declining interest rates in 2002 resulted in increases in the production of both purchase and refinance mortgage loans in our Mortgage Banking segment. This trend continued through all of 2002 and much of 2003. However, interest rates increased during the third and fourth quarters resulting in a decrease in mortgage loan production in the fourth quarter of 2003. PROFITABILITY Our profitability depends in large part upon our: o amount of assets under management; o spreads we earn on our policyholders general account balances; o ability to generate fee revenues by providing administrative and investment management services; o ability to price our life and health insurance products at a level that enables us to earn a margin over the cost of providing benefits and the expense of acquiring and administering those products, which is primarily a function of competitive conditions, persistency, our ability to assess and manage trends in mortality and morbidity experience, our ability to generate investment earnings and our ability to maintain expenses in accordance with pricing assumptions; 29 o ability to effectively monitor and price residential mortgage loans we originate, purchase, and sell and to manage the expenses we incur in servicing residential mortgage loans; o ability to effectively hedge the effect of interest rate changes on our residential mortgage servicing rights; o ability to manage our investment portfolio to maximize investment returns and minimize risks such as interest rate changes or defaults or impairments of invested assets; o ability to effectively hedge fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates; and o ability to manage our operating expenses. CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES The increasing complexity of the business environment and applicable authoritative accounting guidance requires us to closely monitor our accounting policies. We have identified five critical accounting policies that are complex and require significant judgment and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. A summary of our critical accounting policies is intended to enhance the readers ability to assess our financial condition and results of operations and the potential volatility due to changes in estimates and changes in guidance. We have discussed the identification, selection and disclosure of critical accounting estimates and policies with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. VALUATION OF INVESTED ASSETS FIXED MATURITIES, AVAILABLE FOR SALE. Fixed maturity securities include bonds, mortgage backed securities and redeemable preferred stock. We classify our fixed maturity securities as either available for sale or trading and, accordingly, carry them at fair value. Since many of the fixed maturity securities that we invest in are private market assets, there are not readily available market quotes to determine the fair market value. These assets are valued using a spread pricing matrix. When utilizing a spread pricing matrix, securities are valued through a discounted cash flow method where each bond is assigned a credit and liquidity spread, which is added to the current U.S. Treasury rate to discount the cash flows of the security. Our spread pricing matrix uses the OTR Treasury curve, which is pulled from Bloomberg as of the valuation date. Capital Management Sciences ("CMS") has been contracted to serve as an independent source of credit spreads to be used in the corporate private placement valuation process. The credit spreads are based on weekly indices of the public bond market and vary by industry, credit quality, and average investment life. The liquidity spread is based on the average pick up a private placement can expect to earn over a comparable public bond because of illiquidity. The spreads assigned to each security change from month to month based on changes in the market. An interest rate increase in the range of 20 to 100 basis points, and holding credit spreads constant, produces total values of $33.0 billion and $31.8 billion, as compared to the recorded amount of $33.3 billion related to our fixed maturity, available for sale assets held by the Principal Life General Account. When evaluating a fixed maturity security for impairment, we consider relevant facts and circumstances in evaluating whether the impairment is other than temporary. Relevant facts and circumstances considered include: (1) the length of time the fair value has been below cost; (2) the financial position and access to capital of the issuer, including the current and future impact of any specific events; and (3) our ability and intent to hold the security to maturity or until it recovers in value. To the extent we determine that a security is deemed to be other than temporarily impaired, the difference between amortized cost and fair value is charged to net income. There are a number of significant risks and uncertainties inherent in the process of monitoring impairments and determining if an impairment is other than temporary. These risks and uncertainties include: (1) the risk that our assessment of an issuers ability to meet all of its contractual obligations will change based on changes in the credit characteristics of that issuer; (2) the risk that the economic outlook will be worse than expected or have more of an impact on the issuer than anticipated; (3) the risk that our investment 30 professionals are making decisions based on fraudulent or misstated information in the financial statements provided by issuers; and (4) the risk that new information obtained by us or changes in other facts and circumstances lead us to change our intent to hold the security to maturity or until it recovers in value. Any of these situations could result in a charge to net income in a future period. At December 31, 2003, we had $4,289.2 million in available for sale fixed maturity securities with gross unrealized losses totaling $155.0 million. Included in the gross unrealized losses are losses attributable to both movements in market interest rates as well as temporary credit issues. Also included in the $155.0 million is $24.8 million in unrealized losses that are attributable to fixed maturity securities that are part of a fair value hedging relationship. As such, the $24.8 million has been recorded in net income versus other comprehensive income. Net income would be reduced by approximately $84.6 million, on an after tax basis, if all the non hedged securities were deemed to be other than temporarily impaired. In 2003, we recognized $21.1 million in gains on the sales of impaired securities and an additional $52.1 million in impairment losses on assets that had previously been impaired. MORTGAGE LOANS. Mortgage loans consist primarily of commercial mortgage loans on real estate. At December 31, 2003, commercial mortgage loans represented $9,630.4 million. Commercial mortgage loans are generally reported at cost adjusted for amortization of premiums and accrual of discounts, computed using the interest method, and net of valuation allowances. Commercial mortgage loans held for sale are carried at the lower of cost or fair value, less cost to sell, and reported as mortgage loans in the statements of financial position. Commercial mortgage loans on real estate are considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to contractual terms of the loan agreement. When we determine that a loan is impaired, a provision for loss is established for the difference between the carrying amount of the mortgage loan and the estimated value. Estimated value is based on either the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at the loans effective interest rate, the loans observable market price or fair value of the collateral. The provision for losses is reported as a net realized/unrealized capital loss on our consolidated statements of operations. Mortgage loans deemed to be uncollectible are charged against the allowance for losses, and subsequent recoveries are credited to the allowance for losses. The allowance for losses is maintained at a level believed adequate by us to absorb estimated probable credit losses. The determination of the calculation and the adequacy of the mortgage loan reserve and mortgage impairments are subjective. Our periodic evaluation and assessment of the adequacy of the allowance for losses and the need for mortgage impairments is based on known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrowers ability to repay, the estimated value of the underlying collateral, composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and other relevant factors. Our reserving methodology looks at several factors that define five current economic conditions or states ranging from best to worst with positive and negative biases. The determination of the current economic state looks at factors including industry delinquency statistics, portfolio drift based on an internal rating model, the growth in our internal watch list, national real estate space absorption, vacancy levels, national employment growth expectations, projected Gross Domestic Product, projected consumer spending growth, and the capital market assessment and outlook. At December 31, 2003, our determination of the current economic state was average with a negative bias. This economic state coupled with the current portfolio statistics produced a reserve for the Principal Life General Account totaling $48.6 million. Holding all other portfolio criteria constant, if the economic state had been determined to be the best one at December 31, 2003, Principal Lifes General Account reserve would have been $9.7 million and if the economic state had been determined to be the worst one, the Principal Life General Account mortgage loan reserve would have totaled $155.5 million. The evaluation of our loan specific reserve component is also subjective, as it requires estimating the amounts and timing of future cash flows expected to be received on impaired loans. Our financial position is sensitive to changes in estimated cash flows from mortgages, the value of the collateral, and changes in the economic environment in general. INSURANCE RESERVES 31 Reserves are liabilities representing estimates of the amounts that will come due, at some point in the future, to our contractholders. U.S. GAAP, allowing for some degree of managerial judgment, prescribes the methods of establishing reserves. Future policy benefits and claims include reserves for certain insurance products that are computed using assumptions of mortality, morbidity, lapse, investment performance and expense. These assumptions are based on our experience and are periodically reviewed against industry standards to ensure actuarial credibility. Once these assumptions are made for a given policy or group of policies, they will not be changed over the life of the policy unless we recognize a loss on the entire line of business. Our reserve levels are reviewed throughout the year using internal analysis, the annual audit, and annual statutory asset adequacy analysis. To the extent experience indicates potential loss recognition, we recognize losses on certain lines of business. The ultimate accuracy of the assumptions on these long tailed insurance products cannot be determined until the obligation of the entire block of business on which the assumptions were made is extinguished. Short term variances of actual results from the assumptions used in the computation of the reserves are reflected in current period net income and can impact quarter to quarter net income. Future policy benefits and claims also include reserves for incurred but unreported health claims. We record this liability and corresponding benefit expense for claims that are incurred but not yet reported. We recognize claims costs in the period the service was provided to our members. However, claims costs incurred in a particular period are not known with certainty until after we receive, process and pay the claims. We determine the amount of this liability using actuarial methods based on historical claim payment patterns as well as emerging medical cost trends to determine our estimate of claim liabilities. We also look back to assess how our prior periods estimates developed. To the extent appropriate, changes in such development are recorded as a change to current period claim expense. For the years ending 2003, 2002 and 2001, the amount of the claim reserve adjustment made in that period for prior period estimates was within a reasonable range given our normal claims fluctuations. DEFERRED POLICY ACQUISITION COSTS ("DPAC") Commissions and other costs (underwriting, issuance and agency expenses, premium credits, conversion bonuses and first year bonus interest) that vary with and are primarily related to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance policies and investment contract business are capitalized to the extent recoverable. Maintenance costs and acquisition costs that are not deferrable are charged to operations as incurred. Deferred policy acquisition costs for universal life type insurance contracts and participating life insurance policies and investment contracts are being amortized over the lives of the policies and contracts in relation to the emergence of estimated gross profit margins. This amortization is adjusted retrospectively when estimates of current or future gross profits and margins to be realized from a group of products and contracts are revised. The deferred policy acquisition costs of non participating term life insurance policies are being amortized over the premium paying period of the related policies using assumptions consistent with those used in computing policyholder liabilities. Deferred policy acquisition costs are subject to recoverability testing at the time of policy issue and loss recognition testing at the end of each accounting period. Deferred policy acquisition costs would be written off to the extent that it is determined that future policy premiums and investment income or gross profit margins would not be adequate to cover related losses and expenses. Excluding non participating term life insurance policies, the deferred policy acquisition cost asset is amortized in relation to the gross profits of the underlying policies, over the expected lifetime of these policies. At issue, we develop an estimate of the expected future gross profits. These estimated gross profits contain assumptions relating to mortality, morbidity, investment yield and expenses. As actual experience emerges, the gross profits may vary from those expected either in magnitude or timing. For our universal life and investment contracts, we are required by accounting practice to reflect the actual gross profits of the underlying policies. In addition, we are required to revise our assumptions regarding future experience as soon as the current assumptions become no longer actuarially credible. Both actions, reflecting 32 actual experience and changing future estimates, can cause changes in the amount of the asset and the pattern of future amortization. We utilize a mean reversion method (reversion to the mean assumption), a common industry practice, to determine the future equity market growth rate assumption used for the amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs on investment contracts pertaining to individual variable annuities and group annuities which have separate account equity investment options. This practice assumes that the expectation for long term appreciation is not changed by minor short term market fluctuations. We periodically update these estimates and evaluate the recoverability of deferred policy acquisition costs. When appropriate, we revise our assumptions of the estimated gross profits of these contracts, and the cumulative amortization is re estimated and adjusted by a cumulative charge or credit to current operations. The total DPAC asset balance as of December 31, 2003, was $1.6 billion. The impact of a 1% reduction in the long term investment performance rate assumption on separate accounts in our deferred policy acquisition cost models is an estimated $6.2 million reduction in the deferred policy acquisition cost asset as of December 31, 2003. Also, removing the mean reversion methodology from the deferred policy acquisition cost asset calculation has no impact on the December 31, 2003, asset. Positive equity market performance during 2003 resulted in an observed reversion to the mean as of the end of 2003. BENEFIT PLANS The reported expense and liability associated with these plans requires the use of assumptions. We annually review our retirement and other post retirement benefit plan assumptions for the discount rate, the long term rate of return on plan assets, and the compensation increase rate. The assumed discount rate is determined by projecting future benefit payments and discounting those cash flows using rates based on the Bloomberg AA Finance yield to maturity curves. For 2003 year end, we set the discount rate at 6.25%. A 0.25% decrease in the discount rate would increase pension benefits Projected Benefit Obligation ("PBO") and the 2004 Net Periodic Pension Cost ("NPPC") by approximately $49.2 million and $8.4 million, respectively. A 0.25% decrease in the discount rate would increase other post retirement benefits Accumulated Postretirement Benefit Obligation ("APBO") and the 2004 Net Periodic Benefit Cost ("NPBC") by approximately $8.3 million and $0.6 million, respectively. A 0.25% increase in the discount rate would result in decreases in benefit obligations and expenses at a level generally commensurate with that noted above. The assumed long term rate of return on plan assets is generally set at the long term rate expected to be earned based on the long term investment policy of the plans and the various classes of the invested funds. Historical returns of multiple asset classes were analyzed to develop a risk free real rate of return and risk premiums for each asset class. The risk premiums take into account the long term level of risk of the asset class. The overall long term rate for each asset class was developed by combining a long term inflation component, the risk free real rate of return, and the associated risk premium. A weighted average rate was developed based on long term returns for each asset class, the plans target asset allocation policy, and the tax structure of the trusts. For 2004 NPPC and 2004 NPBC for other post retirement benefits, an 8.5% and 7.31% weighted average long term rate of return assumption will be used, respectively. A 0.25% decrease in the long term rate of return would increase 2004 NPPC by approximately $2.5 million and the 2004 NPBC by approximately $0.9 million. A 0.25% increase in this rate would result in a decrease to expense at the same levels. The expected return on plan assets is based on the fair market value of plan assets as of September 30, 2003. 33 The target asset mix of the pension plan is: Minimum Maximum Asset Class Ranges U.S. stock.............. 40% 60% Fixed income............ 20% 30% Real estate............. 3% 10% Non U.S. stock.......... 5% 15% Non U.S. fixed income... 0% 7% Other................... 0% 7% The compensation increase rate assumption is generally set at a rate consistent with current and expected long term compensation and salary policy, including inflation. The pension plans gains/losses are amortized using a straight line amortization method over the average remaining service period of employees. Actuarial gains/losses are amortized over approximately 9 years for pension costs and over approximately 14 years for benefit costs. Prior service costs are amortized on a weighted average basis over approximately 5 years for pension costs and over approximately 10 years for benefit costs. MORTGAGE LOAN SERVICING RIGHTS Mortgage loan servicing rights represent the value of purchasing or originating the right to receive cash flows from servicing mortgage loans. Servicing rights are recorded at the time of sale of the underlying mortgage loans where the related servicing is retained. The total cost of the mortgage loans, which includes the cost to acquire the servicing rights, is allocated to the mortgage loans and the servicing rights based on their relative estimated fair values at the date of sale. To reduce the impact of interest rate fluctuations on net income, we hedge changes in the estimated fair value of our mortgage servicing rights with derivative financial instruments. For mortgage servicing rights designated as a hedged item in a fair value hedge under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 133, ACCOUNTING FOR DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES ("SFAS 133"), as amended, the carrying value of the mortgage servicing rights is adjusted for changes in fair value resulting from the application of hedge accounting. Capitalized servicing rights are carried at the lower of cost or estimated fair value. The capitalized value is amortized in proportion to, and over the period of, estimated net servicing income. Amortization is analyzed periodically and is adjusted to reflect changes in prepayment speeds. Capitalized mortgage loan servicing rights are periodically assessed for impairment based on the estimated fair value of those rights under SFAS No. 140, ACCOUNTING FOR TRANSFERS AND SERVICING OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND EXTINGUISHMENTS OF LIABILITIES ("SFAS 140"). For purposes of performing our impairment evaluation, we stratify the servicing portfolio on the basis of certain predominant risk characteristics, including loan type, note rate, and rate type. To the extent that the carrying value of the servicing rights exceeds estimated fair value for any stratum, a valuation allowance is established, which may be adjusted in the future as the estimated fair value of the servicing rights increase or decrease. Changes in the valuation allowance are recognized in the consolidated statements of operations during the period in which the impairment or recovery occurs. Fair values are estimated using estimates of discounted future net cash flows over the expected lives of the underlying loans using loan prepayment, discount rate, ancillary fee income and other assumptions we believe market participants would use to value such assets. The reasonableness of our assumptions is confirmed through comparisons against qualified mortgage servicing rights trades that were completed in the prior quarter and quarterly independent surveys. Independent appraisals of the fair value of our servicing portfolio are obtained periodically during the year and are used to evaluate the reasonableness of our fair value conclusions. Due to the continuing lack of an active servicing market, we obtained additional evidence to support our estimated fair value at 34 December 31, 2003. Based on this information, we performed an analysis of our mortgage servicing rights portfolio, which resulted in an additional impairment charge of $141.3 million in December 2003. During the second quarter of 2003, we established a policy of further evaluating our mortgage servicing rights valuation allowance by identifying portions of the allowance that represent a permanent impairment (i.e., direct write downs). Each quarter, we will recognize a direct write down when the gross carrying value is not expected to be recovered in the foreseeable future. We estimate the amount of direct write downs based on an analysis of the mortgage servicing rights valuation allowance related to loans that have prepaid. Direct write downs reduce the gross carrying value and the valuation allowance of the mortgage servicing rights, thereby precluding subsequent recapture of previous valuation allowances. The direct write downs have no impact on net income or financial position in the period of adjustment but may result in a reduction of amortization expense and reduced recovery of impairments in periods subsequent to adjustment. We must exercise certain judgments and make estimates in the application of this policy. We have some discretion in determining interest rate assumptions to use in its estimates, but we are guided by the benchmark curve of LIBOR/Swap term structure, the volatility of interest rates derived from historical volatility in LIBOR/Swap rates, and the addition of mortgage spread to the modeled 10 year swap rate to derive the mortgage refinancing rate. We develop prepayment models internally by examining the historical prepayment experience of our portfolio, given the historical interest rate environment. Servicing cost assumptions are derived from budgeted costs, interest differential, and foreclosure losses based on historical evidence, and amortization based on expected non discounted cash flows. Servicing revenue assumptions are derived from historical experience and include principal and interest float, escrow float, prepayment float, late charges collected, and ancillary income. The key economic assumptions used in estimating the fair value of mortgage servicing rights at the date of loan sale for sales completed in 2003, 2002 and 2001 were as follows: 2003 2002 2001 Weighted average life (years)........... 6.78 6.42 7.84 Weighted average prepayment speed....... 10.20% 11.91% 9.48% Yield to maturity discount rate......... 6.48% 6.75% 7.45% Prepayment speed is the constant prepayment rate that results in the weighted average life disclosed above. At December 31, 2003, key economic assumptions and the sensitivity of the current estimated fair value of the mortgage servicing rights to immediate 10% and 20% adverse changes in those assumptions were as follows (dollars in millions): Estimated fair value of mortgage servicing rights.....................$1,959.4 Expected weighted average life (in years)............................. 5.7 Prepayment speed *.................................................... 13.40% Decrease in estimated fair value of 10% adverse change.............$ 88.4 Decrease in estimated fair value of 20% adverse change.............$ 168.9 Yield to maturity discount rate *..................................... 7.45% Decrease in estimated fair value of 10% adverse change.............$ 111.6 Decrease in estimated fair value of 20% adverse change.............$ 223.2 * Represents the weighted average prepayment speed and discount rate for the life of the mortgage servicing rights asset using our Option Adjusted Spread/Monte Carlo simulation of 160 interest rate paths. 35 These sensitivities are hypothetical and should be used with caution. As the figures indicate, changes in estimated fair value based on a 10% variation in assumptions generally cannot be extrapolated because the relationship of the change in the assumption to the change in estimated fair value may not be linear. Also, in the above table, the effect of a variation in a particular assumption on the estimated fair value of the servicing rights is calculated independently without changing any other assumption. In reality, changes in one factor may result in changes in another, which might magnify or counteract the sensitivities. For example, changes in prepayment speed estimates could result in changes in the discount rate. TRANSACTIONS AFFECTING COMPARABILITY OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS ACQUISITIONS We acquired the following businesses, among others, during the past three years: DAO HENG FUND MANAGEMENT. On January 31, 2004, our wholly owned subsidiary, Principal Asset Management Company (Asia) Limited, purchased a 100% ownership of Dao Heng Fund Management ("DHFM") in Hong Kong from Guoco Group Limited ("Guoco"). The acquisition of DHFM increases our presence in the Hong Kong defined contribution pension market. MOLLOY COMPANIES. On December 17, 2003, we signed an agreement to acquire the Molloy Companies. The Molloy Companies offer companies and organizations consultative, administrative and claims services for insured and self funded health plans through top benefit brokers and consultants. Effective January 2, 2004, the operations of the Molloy Companies will be reported in our Life and Health segment. MW POST ADVISORY GROUP. On August 21, 2003, we agreed to purchase approximately 68% of MW Post Advisory Group ("Post Advisory") for $101.6 million. Effective October 15, 2003, we owned 23% of Post Advisory and agreed to purchase an additional 45% on January 5, 2004. As part of our U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment, we account for Post Advisory using the full consolidation method of accounting since, although we are only a minority owner from a voting share perspective prior to January 5, 2004, the terms of the acquisition provide us with control of Post Advisory effective October 15, 2003. Our assets under management increased approximately $3.9 billion at October 31, 2003 as a result of the acquisition. PRINCIPAL ASSET MANAGEMENT COMPANY. On August 31, 2003, we announced that our wholly owned subsidiary, Principal Financial Group (Mauritius) Ltd., had entered into a joint venture agreement with Punjab National Bank ("PNB") and Vijaya Bank, two large Indian commercial banks, to sell long term mutual funds and related financial services in India. The new company will be called Principal PNB Asset Management Company. As part of this transaction, we will roll our existing fund management company, Principal Asset Management Company, into the joint venture. We will retain 65% of the new company, selling 30% to PNB, who will merge its own PNB funds into the new company, and 5% to Vijaya Bank. We expect to close the transaction in the first quarter of 2004. On June 24, 2003, Principal Financial Group (Mauritius) Ltd. finalized a buy sale agreement to purchase an additional 50% ownership of IDBI Principal Asset Management Company in India from Industrial Development Bank of India ("IDBI") for 940 million Indian Rupees ("INR") (approximately U.S. $20.3 million). This transaction gave Principal Financial Group (Mauritius) Ltd. 100% ownership of IDBI Principal Asset Management Company. Upon completion of the transaction, IDBI Principal Asset Management Company was renamed to Principal Asset Management Company. As part of our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment, we account for Principal Asset Management Companys statements of financial position using the full consolidation method of accounting. Activity that affected our statements of operations before our acquisition of majority ownership of the subsidiary is accounted for using the equity method of accounting. AFORE TEPEYAC S.A. DE C.V. On February 28, 2003, we purchased a 100% ownership of AFORE Tepeyac S.A. de C.V. ("AFORE Tepeyac") in Mexico from Mapfre American 36 Vida, Caja Madrid and Mapfre Tepeyac for MX$590.0 million Mexican Pesos ("MX$") (approximately U.S. $53.5 million). The operations of AFORE Tepeyac have been integrated into Principal International, Inc., as a part of our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment. BENEFIT CONSULTANTS, INC. On January 1, 2003, we acquired Benefit Consultants, Inc. ("BCI Group") headquartered in Appleton, Wisconsin. BCI Group is a full service consulting, actuarial and administration firm that specializes in administering qualified and nonqualified retirement benefit plans with a primary focus on employee stock ownership plans. Effective, January 1, 2003, the operations of BCI Group are reported in our U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment. We have integrated BCI Group operations into Principal Life and refer to it as employer securities group. ZURICH AFORE S.A. DE C.V. On May 31, 2002, we purchased a 100% ownership of Zurich AFORE S.A. de C.V. ("Zurich AFORE") in Mexico from Zurich Financial Services for MX$468.4 million (approximately U.S. $49.0 million). The operations of Zurich AFORE have been integrated into Principal International, Inc., as a part of our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment. SPECTRUM ASSET MANAGEMENT. On October 1, 2001, Spectrum Asset Management ("Spectrum") became an affiliate of Principal Global Investors. The acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method and the results of operations of the acquired business have been included in our financial statements from the date of acquisition. In October 2002, we purchased the remaining 20% of Spectrum. We included revenues of $11.0 million, $5.9 million and $0.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively, in our consolidated results of operations. DISPOSITIONS We entered into disposition agreements or disposed of the following businesses, among others, during the past three years: BT FINANCIAL GROUP. On October 31, 2002, we sold substantially all of BT Financial Group to Westpac Banking Corporation ("Westpac"). As of December 31, 2003, we have received proceeds of A$958.9 million Australian dollars ("A$") (U.S. $537.4 million) from Westpac, with future contingent proceeds in 2004 of up to A$150.0 million (approximately U.S. $115.0 million). The contingent proceeds will be based on Westpacs future success in growing retail funds under management. We do not anticipate receiving the contingent proceeds. Excluding contingent proceeds, our total after tax proceeds from the sale were approximately U.S. $890.0 million. This amount includes cash proceeds from Westpac, expected tax benefits, and gain from unwinding the hedged asset associated with our investment in BT Financial Group. As of December 31, 2002, we accrued for an estimated after tax loss on disposal of $208.7 million. For the year ended December 31, 2003, we recognized an after tax gain of $21.8 million, primarily due to additional tax benefits and additional proceeds received upon completion of the sale to Westpac. These gains were recorded in the income (loss) from discontinued operations in the consolidated statements of operations. BT Financial Group is accounted for as a discontinued operation and therefore, the results of operations (excluding corporate overhead) and cash flows have been removed from our results of continuing operations for all periods presented. Corporate overhead allocated to BT Financial Group does not qualify for discontinued operations treatment under SFAS 144, ACCOUNTING FOR THE IMPAIRMENT OR DISPOSAL OF LONG LIVED ASSETS, and therefore is still included in our results of continuing operations. The results of operations (excluding corporate overhead) for BT Financial Group are reported as other after tax adjustments in our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment. Selected financial information for the discontinued operations is as follows: 37 FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 2002 2001 (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT AS INDICATED) Total assets under management ($ in billions).............................. $ $ $ 21.6 Total revenues .......................... $ $ 139.7 $ 220.9 Loss from continuing operations, net of related income taxes (corporate overhead).............................. $ $ (2.6) $ (3.6) Income (loss) from discontinued operations: Income (loss) before income taxes........ 17.7 (15.6) Income taxes (benefits).................. 5.7 (4.4) Income (loss) from discontinued operations (1)......................... 12.0 (11.2) Income (loss) on disposal, net of related income taxes (2)....................... 21.8 (208.7) Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of related income taxes.................................. 21.8 (196.7) (11.2) Cumulative effect of accounting changes, net of related income taxes............ (255.4) Net income (loss)........................ $ 21.8 $(454.7) $ (14.8) (1) The 2002 summary results of operations information is for the ten months ended October 31, 2002, the date of sale of BT Financial Group and, accordingly, there is no statement of operations data to present for 2003. (2) Net of related income tax benefits of $14.6 million and $89.6 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively. In connection with the 2002 sale of BT Financial Group, we agreed to indemnify the purchaser, Westpac for, among other things, the costs associated with potential late filings made by BT Financial Group in New Zealand prior to Westpacs ownership, up to a maximum of A$250.0 million Australian dollars (approximately U.S. $190.0 million as of December 31, 2003). New Zealand securities regulations allow Australian issuers to issue their securities in New Zealand provided that certain documents are appropriately filed with the New Zealand Registrar of Companies. Specifically, the regulations require that any amendments to constitutions and compliance plans be filed in New Zealand. In April 2003, the New Zealand Securities Commission ("the Commission") opined that such late filings would result in certain New Zealand investors having a right to return of their investment plus interest at 10% per annum from the date of investment. Consequently, the Commission has advised that it has initiated an inquiry into the matter, both with regard to BT Financial Group and other similar issuers. We view these potential late filings as a technical matter as we believe investors received the information that is required to be provided directly to them. In addition, we believe this technical issue may affect many in the industry and result in a favorable legislative or judicial solution. A relevant legislative solution and judicial action are both pending in New Zealand. Although we cannot predict the outcome of this matter or reasonably estimate losses, we do not believe that it would result in a material adverse effect on our business or financial position. It is possible, however, that it could have a material adverse effect on net income in a particular quarter or annual period. 38 COVENTRY HEALTH CARE. On February 1, 2002, we sold our remaining stake of 15.1 million shares of Coventry Health Care, Inc. ("Coventry") common stock and a warrant, exercisable for 3.1 million shares of Coventry common stock. We received proceeds of $325.4 million, resulting in a net realized capital gain of $183.0 million, or $114.5 million net of income taxes. We reported our investment in Coventry in our Corporate and Other segment and accounted for it using the equity method prior to its sale. Our share of Coventrys net income was $2.1 million and $20.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. PT ASURANSI JIWA PRINCIPAL INDONESIA. On September 25, 2001, we disposed of all the stock of PT Asuransi Jiwa Principal Indonesia, our subsidiary in Indonesia. We currently have no business operations in Indonesia. We received nominal proceeds, which resulted in a realized capital loss of $6.7 million in 2001. We included nominal revenues and net loss from our operations in Indonesia in our consolidated results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2001. We received an additional $1.4 million in 2003 pursuant to the 2001 sale agreement, resulting in a $0.9 million after tax realized capital gain. OTHER TRANSACTIONS SALE OF RETAIL FIELD MORTGAGE LENDING BRANCH OFFICES. On February 4, 2003, Principal Residential Mortgage signed a definitive agreement to sell the assets of the retail field mortgage lending branches to American Home Mortgage, Inc. ("American Home Mortgage"), an independent retail mortgage banking company. American Home Mortgage has paid Principal Residential Mortgage a guaranteed profit margin on its application pipeline that existed as of February 4, 2003 and has purchased the assets of the branch network and assumed related liabilities. REINSURANCE TRANSACTION. Effective January 1, 2002, we entered into a reinsurance agreement to reinsure group medical insurance contracts. We have amended the contract. Effective January 1, 2003, the reinsurance contract is reported under the deposit method of accounting. This reduces ceded premiums and claims and increases operating expenses with no impact to net income. FLUCTUATIONS IN FOREIGN CURRENCY TO U.S. DOLLAR EXCHANGE RATES Fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates for countries in which we have operations can affect reported financial results. In years when foreign currencies weaken against the U.S. dollar, translating foreign currencies into U.S. dollars results in fewer U.S. dollars to be reported. When foreign currencies strengthen, translating foreign currencies into U.S. dollars results in more U.S. dollars to be reported. In January 2002, the Argentine government ended its tie of the Argentine peso to the U.S. dollar, creating a dual currency system with an official fixed exchange rate of 1.4 pesos to 1.0 U.S. dollar for import and export transactions and a "free" floating exchange rate for other transactions, subsequently floating the Argentine peso in February 2002. The devaluation did not materially impact our consolidated results of operations. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations create variances in our financial statement line items but have not had a material impact on our consolidated income from continuing operations. Our consolidated income from continuing operations was negatively impacted $4.7 million, $7.7 million, and $2.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively, as a result of fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates. For a discussion of our approaches to foreign currency exchange rate risk, see Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk." DEMUTUALIZATION AND INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING Effective October 26, 2001, Principal Mutual Holding Company converted from a mutual insurance holding company to a stock company. All membership interests in 39 Principal Mutual Holding Company were extinguished on that date and eligible policyholders received, in aggregate, 260.8 million shares of common stock, $1,177.5 million of cash and $472.6 million of policy credits as compensation. In addition, on October 26, 2001, we completed our initial public offering ("IPO") in which we issued 100.0 million shares of common stock at a price of $18.50 per share, prior to the underwriters exercise of the overallotment option. Net proceeds from the IPO were $1,753.9 million, of which $64.2 million was retained by Principal Financial Group, Inc., and $1,689.7 million was contributed to Principal Life. Proceeds were net of offering costs of $96.5 million and a related tax benefit of $0.4 million. Costs relating to the demutualization, excluding costs relating to the IPO were $2.0 million and $18.6 million, net of income taxes, in 2002 and 2001, respectively. Demutualization expenses consist primarily of printing and mailing costs and our aggregate cost of engaging independent accounting, actuarial, financial, investment banking, legal and other consultants to advise us on the demutualization. In addition, our costs include the costs of the advisors of the Insurance Commissioner of the State of Iowa and the New York State Insurance Department, other regulatory authorities and internal allocated costs for staff and related costs associated with the demutualization. PENSION EXPENSE The 2004 pension expense for substantially all of our employees and certain agents is expected to be approximately $56.4 million. This is a decrease of $3.8 million from the 2003 pension expense of $60.2 million, primarily due to the plans liability experience, an increase in the plans turnover assumption, and the plans asset performance. The 2002 pension expense was $6.5 million. The discount rate used to determine the 2004 expense was 6.25%, which is down from the 6.5% discount rate used to calculate the 2003 expense. The expected long term return on assets assumption used for the 2004 pension expense remained at 8.5%. RECENT ACCOUNTING CHANGES INTEREST RATE LOCK COMMITMENTS In October 2003, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the "FASB") added a project to its agenda to clarify SFAS No. 133, ACCOUNTING FOR DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES ("SFAS 133"), as amended by SFAS No. 138, ACCOUNTING FOR CERTAIN DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND CERTAIN HEDGING ACTIVITIES AN AMENDMENT OF FASB STATEMENT NO. 133 ("SFAS 138") and SFAS No. 149, AMENDMENT OF FASB STATEMENT 133 ON DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS AND HEDGING ACTIVITIES, with respect to determining the fair value of interest rate lock commitments ("IRLC"). Specifically, the FASB project will address what information should be used to determine the fair value of an IRLC and whether an IRLC should ever be reported as an asset by the issuer. In December 2003, the SEC staff announced that it intends to release a Staff Accounting Bulletin that will require IRLCs issued after April 1, 2004, be accounted for as written options that would be reported as a liability until expiration or termination of the commitment. Neither the FASB nor the SEC has issued final technical guidance in this area and as such it is not possible to know for certain the impact of this guidance. QUALIFIED SPECIAL PURPOSE ENTITIES In June 2003, the FASB issued an exposure draft, QUALIFYING SPECIAL PURPOSE ENTITIES AND ISOLATION OF TRANSFERRED ASSETS AN AMENDMENT OF FASB STATEMENT NO 140 . The exposure draft proposed additional restrictions on the activities of a qualifying special purpose entity ("QSPE"). We are monitoring changes to the exposure draft, which may impact the status our QSPEs. VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES The FASB issued Interpretation No. 46, CONSOLIDATION OF VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES ("FIN 46"), in January 2003. FIN 46 applies to certain entities in which equity investors do not have the characteristics of a controlling financial interest, or do not have sufficient equity at risk for the entities to finance their activities without additional subordinated financial support from 40 other parties. FIN 46 requires the consolidation of variable interest entities ("VIEs") in which an enterprise, known as the primary beneficiary, absorbs a majority of the entitys expected losses, receives a majority of the entitys expected residual returns, or both, as a result of ownership, contractual or other financial interests in the entity. The guidance was effective immediately for all VIEs created after January 31, 2003, and effective July 1, 2003, for all VIEs created before February 1, 2003. In October 2003, the FASB released Staff Position FIN 46 6, EFFECTIVE DATE OF FASB INTERPRETATION NO. 46, CONSOLIDATION OF VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES, that allows the deferral of FIN 46 for all VIEs created or acquired prior to February 1, 2003, until the end of the first interim or annual period ending after December 15, 2003, if certain conditions are met. We invested in one VIE in April 2003, and effective July 1, 2003, consolidated VIEs created or acquired prior to February 1, 2003, for which we are the primary beneficiary. At July 1, 2003, our consolidated financial statements were adjusted to record a cumulative effect of adopting FIN 46, as follows (in millions): ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE NET LOSS INCOME Adjustment for intercompany gains and carrying value of assets consolidated................................................. $(6.1) $ 14.1 Income tax impact.............................................. 2.7 (5.0) Total.......................................................... $(3.4) $ 9.1 On December 24, 2003, the FASB issued a revision to FIN 46, Interpretation No. 46 (Revised 2003): CONSOLIDATION OF VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES ("FIN 46R"), to clarify some of the provisions of FIN 46 and to exempt certain entities from its requirements. Under FIN 46R, special effective date provisions apply to entities that have fully or partially applied FIN 46 prior to issuance of FIN 46R. We plan to adopt FIN 46R effective January 1, 2004 and do not anticipate that this will have a material impact on our consolidated statements of operations. As of July 1, 2003, we consolidated a residential mortgage loan funding VIE, three grantor trusts and several other immaterial VIEs in which we have determined we are the primary beneficiary. The incremental impact on certain financial data, after consideration of our previous investment for these consolidated VIEs, is as follows: AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2003 (IN MILLIONS) Total assets...................................... $ 2,164.3 Total short term debt............................. $ 615.0 Total long term debt.............................. 1,458.0 Total other liabilities........................... 95.4 Total liabilities................................. 2,168.4 Total equity...................................... (4.1) Total liabilities and equity.................... $ 2,164.3 On July 7, 2003, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants issued Statement of Position ("SOP") 03 1, ACCOUNTING AND REPORTING BY INSURANCE ENTERPRISES FOR CERTAIN NONTRADITIONAL LONG DURATION CONTRACTS AND FOR SEPARATE ACCOUNTS. This SOP addresses an insurance enterprises accounting for certain fixed and variable contract features not covered by other authoritative accounting guidance. This SOP is effective for financial statements for fiscal 41 years beginning after December 15, 2003. This SOP is not expected to have a material impact to our consolidated financial statements. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS The following table presents summary consolidated financial information for the years indicated: FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 2002 2001 (IN MILLIONS) INCOME STATEMENT DATA: Revenues: Premiums and other considerations.................... $ 3,634.1 $ 3,881.8 $ 4,122.3 Fees and other revenues.............................. 2,416.2 1,990.8 1,600.7 Net investment income................................ 3,419.6 3,304.7 3,383.6 Net realized/unrealized capital losses............... (65.7) (354.8) (514.0) Total revenues..................................... 9,404.2 8,822.5 8,592.6 Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses............. 4,861.3 5,216.9 5,482.1 Dividends to policyholders........................... 307.9 316.6 313.7 Operating expenses................................... 3,281.3 2,623.2 2,332.7 Total expenses..................................... 8,450.5 8,156.7 8,128.5 Income from continuing operations before income taxes.. 953.7 665.8 464.1 Income taxes........................................... 225.8 45.9 83.4 Income from continuing operations, net of related income taxes....................................... 727.9 619.9 380.7 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of related income taxes............................... 21.8 (196.7) (11.2) Income before cumulative effect of accounting changes.. 749.7 423.2 369.5 Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of related income taxes....................................... (3.4) (280.9) (10.7) Net income......................................... $ 746.3 $ 142.3 $ 358.8 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 Premiums and other considerations decreased $247.7 million, or 6%, to $3,634.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $3,881.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. The decrease reflected a $326.5 million decrease from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily a result of a decrease in premiums from single premium group annuities with life contingencies, which are typically used to fund defined benefit pension plan terminations. The premium income we receive from these contracts fluctuates due to the variability in the number and size of pension plan terminations in the market, the interest rate environment and our ability to attract new sales. The decrease was partially offset by a $45.6 million increase from the Life and Health Insurance segment, primarily related to increased group disability sales and favorable retention. Fees and other revenues increased $425.4 million, or 21%, to $2,416.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $1,990.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. The increase was primarily due to a $188.3 million increase from the Mortgage Banking segment primarily resulting from an increase in mortgage loan production volume and growth in the mortgage loan servicing portfolio during the first half of 2003. In addition, U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation fees and other revenues increased $185.2 million primarily related to an increase in management and performance fees, growth in assets under management and growth in account values, which was due to growth in the equity markets and net cash flows. Net investment income increased $114.9 million, or 3%, to $3,419.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $3,304.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. The increase was primarily a result of a $4,854.4 million, or 10%, increase in average invested assets and cash, excluding the impact of the 42 implementation of FIN 46. Partially offsetting the increase was a decrease in average investment yields. The yield on average invested assets and cash was 6.4% for the year ended December 31, 2003, compared to 6.9% for the year ended December 31, 2002. Net realized/unrealized capital losses decreased $289.1 million, or 81%, to $65.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $354.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. The decrease is due to a $199.8 million decrease in other than temporary declines in the value of certain fixed maturity and equity securities, a $164.2 million increase in gains related to the mark to market and sales of certain seed money investments, a $93.0 million decrease in losses related to credit impaired sales, and $25.4 million increase in gains due to the strengthening of the foreign currency exchange rates. These items are partially offset by a $183.0 million capital gain related to the sale of our investment in Coventry in 2002 and $53.7 million less gains on the sale of other fixed maturity securities in 2003. The following table highlights the contributors to net realized/unrealized capital gains and losses for the year ended December 31, 2003. FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 NET REALIZED NET REALIZED/ GAINS UNREALIZED (LOSSES) ON HEDGING CAPITAL GAINS IMPAIRMENTS DISPOSAL ADJUSTMENTS (LOSSES) (IN MILLIONS) Fixed maturity securities (1)... $ (152.6) $ (9.1) $ (62.3) $ (224.0) Equity securities (2)........... (4.6) 8.9 4.3 Mortgage loans on real estate (3).................... (2.2) (2.2) Real estate..................... (11.5) 4.8 (6.7) Derivatives..................... 107.2 107.2 Other (4)....................... 121.2 (65.5) 55.7 Total......................... $ (170.9) $ 125.8 $ (20.6) $ (65.7) (1) Impairments include $21.1 million in recoveries on the sale of previously impaired assets and $173.7 million of impairment losses. Net realized gains (losses) on disposal includes gross realized gains of $55.7 million and gross realized losses of $64.8 million. (2) Impairments include $6.2 million in recoveries on the sale of previously impaired assets and $10.8 million of impairment losses. Net realized gains (losses) on disposal includes gross realized gains of $9.8 million and gross realized losses of $0.9 million. (3) Includes $36.2 million in realized losses due to sale, foreclosure, or impairment write downs of commercial mortgage loans offset by a $34.0 million decrease in commercial mortgage valuation allowance. (4) Net realized gains (losses) on disposal includes $85.9 million for mark to market gains on seed money and $35.2 million related to foreign currency gains. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $355.6 million, or 7%, to $4,861.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $5,216.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. The decrease was primarily due to a $390.6 million decrease from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily reflecting the decline in reserves resulting from a decrease in sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies. Dividends to policyholders decreased $8.7 million, or 3%, to $307.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $316.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. The decrease was due to a $6.0 million decrease from the Life and Health Insurance segment, resulting from changes in the individual life insurance dividend scale and a decrease in the dividend interest crediting rates. In addition, the decrease was attributable to a $2.7 million decrease 43 from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment, resulting from a decrease in dividends for our participating pension full service accumulation products. Operating expenses increased $658.1 million, or 25%, to $3,281.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $2,623.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. The increase was primarily due to a $404.3 million increase from the Mortgage Banking segment primarily resulting from impairments of mortgage loan servicing rights and, to a lesser extent, due to growth in the mortgage loan servicing portfolio. The increase also reflected a $178.5 million increase from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily reflecting the full consolidation of our newly acquired Post Advisory subsidiary, higher incentive compensation accruals and increases in employee benefit costs. Income taxes increased $179.9 million to $225.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $45.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. The effective income tax rate was 24% for the year ended December 31, 2003, and 7% for the year ended December 31, 2002. The effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002 were lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35% primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received. The increase in the effective tax rate to 24% in 2003 from 7% in 2002 was primarily due to the favorable settlement of an IRS audit issue in 2002. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of income or loss from discontinued operations and the cumulative effect of accounting changes, net of related income taxes, net income increased $604.0 million to $746.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $142.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. The income or loss from discontinued operations was related to our sale of BT Financial Group. The cumulative effect of accounting change was related to our implementation of FIN 46 in 2003 and SFAS No. 142, GOODWILL AND OTHER INTANGIBLE ASSETS ("SFAS 142") in 2002. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 Premiums and other considerations decreased $240.5 million, or 6%, to $3,881.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $4,122.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The decrease reflected a $183.0 million decrease from the International Asset Management and Accumulation segment primarily resulting from decreased sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies due to the sale of a large group annuity contract in 2001 and to a lesser extent, prolonged government retention of potential annuitants in 2002 in Mexico. In addition, the decrease reflected a $37.7 million decrease from the Life and Health Insurance segment, primarily related to the reclassification of revenues from our group universal life insurance product from premiums to fee revenues and the shift in customer preference from individual traditional life insurance products to individual universal and variable universal life insurance products, partially offset by strong disability insurance sales in 2002. Fees and other revenues increased $390.1 million, or 24%, to $1,990.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $1,600.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The increase was primarily due to a $326.9 million increase from the Mortgage Banking segment primarily resulting from mortgage loan production fee revenues, reflecting the increase in mortgage loan production volume. Net investment income decreased $78.9 million, or 2%, to $3,304.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $3,383.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The decrease was primarily related to a decrease in investment yields. The yield on average invested assets and cash was 6.9% for the year ended December 31, 2002, compared to 7.7% for the year ended December 31, 2001. This reflects a decrease in investment gains on real estate due to lower sales of certain real estate held for sale, compared to an unusually high volume of sales during 2001. In addition, the decrease reflects lower average investment yields due in part to a lower interest rate environment and to a lesser extent, due to a decrease in commercial mortgage loan prepayment fee income. The decrease was partially offset by a $3,565.1 million, or 8%, increase in average invested assets and cash. Net realized/unrealized capital losses decreased $159.2 million, or 31%, to $354.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $514.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The decrease was due to the $183.0 million capital 44 gain realized as the result of the sale of our investment in Coventry in February 2002 and the $38.4 million loss on the sale of our operations in Spain in 2001, a $79.7 million decrease in losses on fixed maturity securities sales, and a $58.5 million decrease in losses on equity securities sales. These decreases were partially offset by an increase of $109.9 million in other than temporary impairments of fixed maturity securities, a $19.7 million increase in the other than temporary declines in the value of equity securities, an increase of $54.1 million in mark to market losses on certain seed money investments, and an increase of $28.0 million in losses on derivatives. The following table highlights the contributors to net realized/unrealized capital gains and losses for the year ended December 31, 2002. FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 NET REALIZED NET REALIZED/ GAINS UNREALIZED (LOSSES) ON HEDGING CAPITAL GAINS IMPAIRMENTS DISPOSAL ADJUSTMENTS (LOSSES) (IN MILLIONS) Fixed maturity securities (1)... $ (326.4) $ (42.0) $ 6.1 $ (362.3) Equity securities (2)........... (30.6) 1.9 (28.7) Mortgage loans on real estate (3).................... (10.3) (10.3) Real estate..................... 9.3 9.3 Derivatives..................... (73.3) (73.3) Other........................... 94.8 15.7 110.5 Total......................... $ (367.3) $ 64.0 $ (51.5) $ (354.8) (1) Impairment losses include $2.9 million in recoveries on the sale of previously impaired assets and $329.3 million of impairment losses. Net realized gains (losses) on disposal includes gross realized gains of $152.5 million and gross realized losses of $194.5 million. (2) Impairments include $30.6 million of impairment losses and no recoveries on the sale of previously impaired assets. Net realized gains (losses) on disposal includes gross realized gains of $4.1 million and gross realized losses of $2.2 million. (3) Includes $14.7 million in realized losses due to sale, foreclosures or impairment write downs of commercial mortgage loans offset by a $4.4 million decrease in commercial mortgage valuation allowance. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $265.2 million, or 5%, to $5,216.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $5,482.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The decrease was partially due to a $149.5 million decrease from the International Asset Management and Accumulation segment due to higher reserve changes and policy and contract benefit payments recognized in 2001 due to the sale of a large group annuity contract, and to a lesser extent, prolonged government retention of potential annuitants in 2002 in Mexico. The decrease was also due to a $57.6 million decrease from the Life and Health Insurance segment, primarily due to amounts received from a reinsurer and lower death claims. In addition, the decrease was due to a $52.8 million decrease from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily reflecting a decrease in interest credited to customers and a decrease in sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies. Dividends to policyholders increased $2.9 million to $316.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $313.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The increase was attributable to a $2.9 million increase from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment, resulting from an increase in dividends for our participating pension full service accumulation products. Operating expenses increased $290.5 million, or 12%, to $2,623.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $2,332.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The increase was largely due to a $355.9 million increase from the 45 Mortgage Banking segment primarily resulting from growth in the mortgage loan servicing portfolio, an increase in impairment of capitalized mortgage servicing rights net of servicing hedge activity and an increase in the mortgage loan production volume. The increase was partially offset by a $43.1 million decrease from the Corporate and Other segment, primarily due to expenses recognized in 2001 related to our demutualization, federal income tax interest related to the settlement of an IRS audit issue in 2002, offset partially by an increase to a loss contingency reserve established for sales practices litigation in 2002. Income taxes decreased $37.5 million, or 45%, to $45.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $83.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The effective income tax rate was 7% for the year ended December 31, 2002, and 18% for the year ended December 31, 2001. The effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001 were lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35% primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received. Our effective income tax rate was also reduced in 2001 due to additional tax benefits related to excess tax over book capital losses realized from the sales of our operations in Spain and Indonesia. The effective tax rate decreased to 7% in 2002 from 18% in 2001 primarily due to the favorable settlement of an IRS audit issue in 2002. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of loss from discontinued operations and the cumulative effect of accounting change, net of related income taxes, net income decreased $216.5 million, or 60%, to $142.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $358.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The loss from discontinued operations was related to our sale of BT Financial Group. The cumulative effect of accounting change was related to our implementation of SFAS 142 in 2002 and SFAS 133 in 2001. RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BY SEGMENT We use segment operating earnings, which excludes the effect of net realized/unrealized capital gains and losses, as adjusted, and other after tax adjustments, for goal setting, determining employee compensation, and evaluating performance on a basis comparable to that used by securities analysts. Segment operating earnings are determined by adjusting U.S. GAAP net income for net realized/unrealized capital gains and losses, as adjusted, and other after tax adjustments we believe are not indicative of overall operating trends. Note that after tax adjustments have occurred in the past and could recur in future reporting periods. While these items may be significant components in understanding and assessing our consolidated financial performance, we believe the presentation of segment operating earnings enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting earnings attributable to the normal, ongoing operations of our businesses. The following table presents segment information as of or for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001: 46 AS OF OR FOR YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 2002 2001 (IN MILLIONS) OPERATING REVENUES BY SEGMENT: U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation................... $ 3,651.0 $ 3,780.5 $ 3,799.8 International Asset Management and Accumulation.......... 412.1 357.9 508.4 Life and Health Insurance................................ 4,014.3 3,946.8 3,946.4 Mortgage Banking......................................... 1,396.8 1,153.0 757.4 Corporate and Other(1)................................... 8.8 (15.1) 101.7 Total segment operating revenues....................... 9,483.0 9,223.1 9,113.7 Net realized/unrealized capital losses, including recognition of front end fee revenues and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues (3)........... (78.8) (400.6) (527.4) Investment income generated from IPO proceeds(2)......... 6.3 Total revenue per consolidated statements of operations............................................ $ 9,404.2 $ 8,822.5 $ 8,592.6 OPERATING EARNINGS (LOSS) BY SEGMENT, NET OF RELATED INCOME TAXES: U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation .................. $ 433.8 $ 370.9 $353.8 International Asset Management and Accumulation.......... 34.9 19.5 2.3 Life and Health Insurance................................ 241.2 233.1 201.2 Mortgage Banking......................................... 53.2 142.9 126.7 Corporate and Other ..................................... (12.5) (17.0) 38.1 Total segment operating earnings, net of related income taxes......................................... 750.6 749.4 722.1 Net realized/unrealized capital losses, as adjusted(3)... (51.6) (243.9) (321.0) Other after tax adjustments(4)........................... 47.3 (363.2) (42.3) Net income per consolidated statements of operations... $ 746.3 $ 142.3 $ 358.8 ASSETS BY SEGMENT: U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation(5)................ $ 83,904.8 $ 70,371.9 $ 68,543.8 International Asset Management and Accumulation.......... 3,011.4 2,202.5 4,956.9 Life and Health Insurance................................ 12,171.8 11,356.3 10,776.2 Mortgage Banking(6)...................................... 5,558.8 3,740.1 2,718.8 Corporate and Other(7)................................... 3,107.6 2,190.5 1,354.8 Total consolidated assets.............................. $107,754.4 $ 89,861.3 $ 88,350.5 (1) Includes inter segment eliminations primarily related to internal investment management fee revenues, commission fee revenues paid to U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation agents for selling Life and Health Insurance segment insurance products, internal interest paid to our Mortgage Banking segment for escrow accounts deposited with our U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment and real estate joint venture rental income. In 2001, the Corporate and Other segment reported rental income from real estate joint ventures for office space used by other segments. (2) Interest income generated from IPO proceeds is reported in other after tax adjustments on the operating earnings statement. (3) In addition to sales activity and other than temporary impairments, net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses) include unrealized gains (losses) on mark to market changes in certain seed money investments and investments classified as trading securities, as well as unrealized gains (losses) on certain derivatives. Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses), as adjusted, are net of income taxes, net realized capital gains and losses distributed, minority interest capital gains and losses, related changes in the amortization pattern of deferred policy acquisition costs, recognition of front end fee revenues for sales charges on pension products and services and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues. 47 FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 2002 2001 (IN MILLIONS) Net realized/unrealized capital losses................................ $(65.7) $ (354.8) $ (514.0) Certain market value adjustments to fee revenues...................... (17.7) (31.8) (14.9) Recognition of front end fee revenues................................. 4.6 (14.0) 1.5 Net realized/unrealized capital losses, including recognition of front end fee revenues and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues................................................... (78.8) (400.6) (527.4) Amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs related to net realized capital gains (losses)...................... 5.1 35.4 18.6 Capital gains distributed............................................. (4.5) (12.7) Minority interest capital gains....................................... (0.1) Net realized/unrealized capital losses, including recognition of front end fee revenues and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues, net of related amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs, capital gains distributed, and minority interest capital gains............................................ (78.3) (377.9) (508.8) Income tax effect..................................................... 26.7 134.0 187.8 Net realized/unrealized capital losses, as adjusted................. $(51.6) $ (243.9) $ (321.0) (4)For the year ended December 31, 2003, other after tax adjustments of $47.3 million included (1) the positive effects of: (a) a decrease in income tax reserves established for contested IRS tax audit matters ($28.9 million) and (b) a change in the estimated loss on disposal of BT Financial Group ($21.8 million) and (2) the negative effect of a cumulative effect of accounting change related to the implementation of FIN 46 ($3.4 million). For the year ended December 31, 2002, other after tax adjustments of $363.2 million included (1) the negative effects of: (a) a cumulative effect of accounting change related to our implementation of SFAS 142 ($280.9 million); (b) a loss from the discontinued operations of BT Financial Group ($196.7 million); (c) an increase to a loss contingency reserve established for sales practices litigation ($21.6 million); and (d) expenses related to our demutualization ($2.0 million) and (2) the positive effect of the settlement of an IRS audit issue ($138.0 million). For the year ended December 31, 2001, other after tax adjustments of $42.3 million included (1) the negative effects of: (a) expenses related to our demutualization ($18.6 million); (b) the loss on discontinued operations of BT Financial Group ($11.2 million); (c) a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle related to our implementation of SFAS 133 ($10.7 million); and (d) an increase to our loss contingency reserve for sales practices litigation ($5.9 million) and (2) the positive effect of investment income generated from the proceeds of our IPO ($4.1 million). (5)U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation separate account assets include shares of the Principal Financial Group stock allocated to a separate account, a result of our demutualization. The value of the separate account was $833.9 million, $1.0 billion, and $1.3 billion at December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001, respectively. Activity of the separate account was reflected in both separate account assets and separate account liabilities and did not impact our results of operations. (6)As a result of the implementation of FIN 46, effective July 1, 2003, Mortgage Banking assets include the full consolidation of Principal Residential Mortgage Capital Resources, LLC ("PRMCR"), which provides a source of funding for our residential mortgage loan production. PRMCR held $2.0 billion in mortgage loans held for sale as of December 31, 2003. (7)Includes inter segment elimination amounts related to internally generated mortgage loans and an internal line of credit. The U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment and Life and Health Insurance segment reported mortgage loan assets issued for real estate joint ventures. These mortgage loans were reported as liabilities in the Corporate and Other segment. In addition, the Corporate and Other segment managed a revolving line of credit used by other segments. 48 U.S. ASSET MANAGEMENT AND ACCUMULATION SEGMENT ASSET ACCUMULATION TRENDS Our sales of pension and other asset accumulation products and services in the U.S. have been affected by overall trends in the U.S. retirement services industry, as our customers have begun to rely less on defined benefit retirement plans, social security and other government programs. Recent trends in the work environment include a more mobile workforce and the desire of employers to shift the market risk of retirement investments to employees by offering defined contribution plans rather than defined benefit plans. These trends are increasing the demand for defined contribution pension arrangements such as 401(k) plans, mutual funds or variable annuities. The "baby boom" generation of U.S. workers has reached an age at which saving for retirement is critical and it continues to seek tax advantaged investment products for retirement. Also, the Economic Growth and Tax Relief Reconciliation Act of 2001 had many of its provisions become effective in 2002, which increased allowed contribution limits and a number of other opportunities to save for retirement. Considering these trends, asset accumulation account values increased as of December 31, 2003, primarily due to significant additional gross new deposits, strong performance of the equity markets and retention of assets from existing clients. The declining interest rate environment and poor performance in the equity markets in 2002 slowed our growth in asset accumulation account values for that year. The interest rate environment continued its low trend in 2003 while the S & P 500 posted a 26.4% gain resulting in a significant increase in total account values by the end of 2003. The following table provides a summary of U.S. Asset Accumulation account values as of December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001: U.S. ASSET ACCUMULATION AS OF TOTAL ACCOUNT VALUES (IN BILLIONS) December 31, 2003 ......... $ 91.7 December 31, 2002 ......... 73.8 December 31, 2001 ......... 71.0 ASSET MANAGEMENT TRENDS Asset management services have been among the most profitable and rapidly growing sectors of the financial services industry, at both the retail and institutional level. We seek to take advantage of current trends, which indicate that both retail and institutional investors embrace specialization, providing increased fees to successful active managers with expertise in specialty and niche areas. Our U.S. third party assets under management increased $10.1 billion during 2003. The following table provides a summary of Principal Global Investors affiliated and third party assets under management as of December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001: PRINCIPAL GLOBAL INVESTORS AFFILIATED ASSETS THIRD PARTY ASSETS TOTAL ASSETS UNDER AS OF UNDER MANAGEMENT UNDER MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT (IN BILLIONS) December 31, 2003.......... $ 88.6 $ 24.7 $113.3 December 31, 2002.......... 77.7 14.6 92.3 December 31, 2001.......... 77.8 7.9 85.7 U.S. ASSET MANAGEMENT AND ACCUMULATION SEGMENT SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment for the years indicated: 49 FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 2002 2001 (IN MILLIONS) OPERATING EARNINGS DATA: Operating revenues(1): Premiums and other considerations...... $ 420.0 $ 746.5 $ 766.3 Fees and other revenues................ 833.7 681.2 633.1 Net investment income.................. 2,397.3 2,352.8 2,400.4 Total operating revenues............. 3,651.0 3,780.5 3,799.8 Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses, including dividends to policyholders........................ 2,146.6 2,539.9 2,589.8 Operating expenses..................... 934.5 773.4 773.7 Total expenses....................... 3,081.1 3,313.3 3,363.5 Pre tax operating earnings.............. 569.9 467.2 436.3 Income taxes............................ 136.1 96.3 82.5 Operating earnings...................... 433.8 370.9 353.8 Net realized/unrealized capital losses, as adjusted.......................... (82.1) (250.5) (164.7) Other after tax adjustments............. (1.7) (10.8) U.S. GAAP REPORTED: Net income.............................. $ 350.0 $ 120.4 $ 178.3 (1) Excludes net realized/unrealized capital losses and their impact on recognition of front end fee revenues and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 Premiums and other considerations decreased $326.5 million, or 44%, to $420.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $746.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. The decrease primarily resulted from a $353.9 million decrease in pension full service payout sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies, which are typically used to fund defined benefit plan terminations. The premium income received from these contracts fluctuates due to the variability in the number and size of pension plan terminations, the interest rate environment and the ability to attract new sales. Fees and other revenues increased $152.5 million, or 22%, to $833.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $681.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. Principal Global Investors fees and other revenues increased $96.8 million primarily due to increased management and performance fees from the full consolidation of our newly acquired Post Advisory subsidiary, increased revenues from Spectrum due to growth in assets under management and the inclusion of our asset management offshore operations. Pension full service accumulation fees and other revenue increased $50.0 million primarily due to an increase in revenue from improvements in the equity markets and net cash flow, which have led to higher account values, and increased revenue from our employer securities group acquisition, BCI Group. Net investment income increased $44.5 million, or 2%, to $2,397.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $2,352.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. The increase reflects a $3,096.6 million, or 9%, increase in average invested assets and cash for the segment. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in the average annualized yield on invested assets and cash, which was 6.3% for the year ended December 31, 2003, compared to 6.7% for the year ended December 31, 2002. This reflects lower yields on fixed maturity securities and commercial mortgages due in part to a lower interest rate environment. 50 Benefits, claims and settlement expenses, including dividends to policyholders, decreased $393.3 million, or 15%, to $2,146.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $2,539.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. The decrease primarily resulted from a $351.8 million decrease in our pension full service payout business as a result of decreased sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies. Also contributing to the decrease was a $56.0 million decrease in pension full service accumulation business due primarily to declining business from our participating block and to lower interest credited on our non participating deposit type business. Operating expenses increased $161.1 million, or 21%, to $934.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $773.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. The increase primarily resulted from a $104.9 million increase in Principal Global Investors operating expenses due to the full consolidation of our newly acquired Post Advisory subsidiary, the inclusion of our asset management offshore operations and higher incentive compensation accruals. In addition, pension full service accumulation operating expenses increased $41.3 million due to higher non deferrable compensation related costs including incentive compensation costs and increases in employee benefit costs, expenses from employer securities group and increased amortization of DPAC in 2003. Income taxes increased $39.8 million, or 41%, to $136.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $96.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. The effective income tax rate for this segment was 24% for the year ended December 31, 2003, and 21% for the year ended December 31, 2002. The effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, were lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35%, as a result of income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received, for which an estimated benefit recognition rate decreased during 2003 compared to 2002, and other tax exempt income. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings increased $62.9 million, or 17%, to $433.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $370.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. Net realized/unrealized capital losses, as adjusted, decreased $168.4 million, or 67%, to $82.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $250.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. The decrease is due to lower capital losses related to other than temporary declines in the value of certain fixed maturity securities for the year ended December 31, 2003. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of other after tax adjustments for the year ended December 31, 2003, net income increased $229.6 million to $350.0 million from $120.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. Other after tax adjustments for the year ended December 31, 2003, had a negative impact on net income of $1.7 million due to a cumulative effect of accounting change related to our implementation of FIN 46. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 Premiums and other considerations decreased $19.8 million, or 3%, to $746.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $766.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The decrease primarily resulted from a $59.5 million decrease in pension full service payout sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies, which are typically used to fund defined benefit plan terminations. The premium income received from these contracts fluctuates due to the variability in the number and size of pension plan terminations, the interest rate environment, and the ability to attract new sales. Partially offsetting this decrease was a $39.7 million increase in premium primarily resulting from higher individual payout annuity sales. Fees and other revenues increased $48.1 million, or 8%, to $681.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $633.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Pension fees and other revenues increased $27.2 million. The increase primarily resulted from higher fee income generated from improved net cash flows in 2002 and a reduction of losses due to market value fee adjustments on our participating business recognized in the prior year. The increase also resulted from netting the change in unearned revenue for selected products with 51 the related unlocking of DPAC in operating expenses. Prior to the third quarter of 2002, the impact was reported separately in fees and other revenue and operating expenses. In addition, Principal Global Investors recognized a $19.3 million increase in fees and other revenue. This increase was primarily due to a reclassification of market value and hedging activities from net investment income to fees and other revenue and an increase in investment management and transaction fees. Net investment income decreased $47.6 million, or 2%, to $2,352.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $2,400.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in the average annualized yield on invested assets and cash, which was 6.7% for the year ended December 31, 2002, compared to 7.3% for the year ended December 31, 2001. The decrease was partially offset by a $2,129.3 million, or 6%, increase in average invested assets and cash. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses, including dividends to policyholders, decreased $49.9 million, or 2%, to $2,539.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $2,589.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The decrease primarily resulted from a $97.0 million decrease in pension benefits, claims and settlement expenses. This decrease was largely due a decrease in interest credited to customers from our full service accumulation and investment only businesses resulting from a lower interest rate environment in 2002. Also contributing to the overall decrease was a decrease in full service payout sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies. Partially offsetting this decrease was a $44.2 million increase, which primarily resulted from an increase in reserves resulting from higher individual payout annuity sales. Operating expenses decreased $0.3 million to $773.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $773.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The decrease was primarily due to a $22.5 million decrease in pension operating expenses. This decrease was largely due to operational efficiencies including lower staff levels in addition to an increase in capitalization of DPAC resulting from an increase in sales of selected products. Offsetting the overall decrease was a $12.9 million increase in Principal Global Investors operating expenses due to an increase in employee costs resulting from the acquisition of Spectrum in the fourth quarter of 2001 and higher incentive compensation accruals in 2002. In addition, individual annuity operating expenses increased $7.3 million mainly due to an increase in DPAC amortization resulting from the decline in the stock market and an increase in corporate expense allocations in 2002. Also contributing to the increase was a $6.4 million increase in our mutual fund operating expenses. This increase primarily relates to increased commission expense generated from sales of variable life and annuity contracts. Of this increase, $2.6 million relates to sales within the segment and is eliminated at an operating segment level. Income taxes increased $13.8 million, or 17%, to $96.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $82.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The effective income tax rate for this segment was 21% for the year ended December 31, 2002, and 19% for the year ended December 31, 2001. The effective income tax rates for the year ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, were lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35% primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received and other tax exempt income. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings increased $17.1 million, or 5%, to $370.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $353.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Net realized/unrealized capital losses, as adjusted, increased $85.8 million, or 52%, to $250.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $164.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The increase includes capital losses related to other than temporary declines in the value of certain fixed maturity securities for the year ended December 31, 2002. As a result of the foregoing factors, net income decreased $57.9 million, or 32%, to $120.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $178.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. For the year ended December 31, 2001, net income included the negative effect of other after tax adjustments totaling $10.8 million related to a cumulative effect of accounting change related to our implementation of SFAS 133. 52 INTERNATIONAL ASSET MANAGEMENT AND ACCUMULATION SEGMENT ASSET ACCUMULATION TRENDS Our international asset management and accumulation businesses focus on countries with a trend toward privatization of public retirement pension systems requiring employees who join the labor force to contribute to a private pension plan. With variations depending upon the specific country, we have targeted these markets for sales of retirement and related products and services, including defined contribution pension plans, annuities and long term mutual funds to businesses and individuals. In several of our international markets, we complement our sales of these products with sales of life insurance products. We have pursued our international strategy through a combination of start ups, acquisitions and joint ventures, which require infusions of capital consistent with our strategy of long term growth and profitability. The following table provides a summary of Principal International assets under management as of December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001: PRINCIPAL INTERNATIONAL TOTAL ASSETS UNDER AS OF MANAGEMENT (IN BILLIONS) December 31, 2003 ......... $ 7.5 December 31, 2002 ......... 4.4 December 31, 2001 ......... 3.7 INTERNATIONAL ASSET MANAGEMENT AND ACCUMULATION SEGMENT SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA The following table presents certain summary financial data of the International Asset Management and Accumulation segment for the years indicated: 53 FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 2002 2001 (IN MILLIONS) OPERATING EARNINGS DATA: Operating revenues(1): Premiums and other considerations...... $ 195.1 $ 161.9 $ 344.9 Fees and other revenues................ 77.3 56.4 46.1 Net investment income.................. 139.7 139.6 117.4 Total operating revenues............. 412.1 357.9 508.4 Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses............................... 268.0 243.8 407.5 Operating expenses...................... 104.1 87.5 101.2 Total expenses....................... 372.1 331.3 508.7 Pre tax operating earnings (loss)....... 40.0 26.6 (0.3) Income taxes (benefits)................. 5.1 7.1 (2.6) Operating earnings ..................... 34.9 19.5 2.3 Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses), as adjusted.................. 2.5 12.4 (29.2) Other after tax adjustments............. 21.8 (473.0) (11.2) U.S. GAAP REPORTED: Net income (loss)....................... $ 59.2 $ (441.1) $ (38.1) OTHER DATA: Operating earnings (loss): Principal International................ $ 34.9 $ 22.1 $ 5.9 BT Financial Group..................... (2.6) (3.6) Net income (loss): Principal International................ $ 37.4 $ 13.6 $ (23.3) BT Financial Group..................... 21.8 (454.7) (14.8) (1) Excludes net realized/unrealized capital losses. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 Premiums and other considerations increased $33.2 million, or 21%, to $195.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $161.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. An increase of $47.3 million in Chile was primarily a result of record sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies in 2003 following a year of decreased sales due to market contraction. Partially offsetting this increase was a decrease of $13.4 million in Mexico primarily due to prolonged government retention of potential annuitants in 2003, additional premiums on a large group annuity contract in 2002, as well as the weakening of the Mexican peso versus the U.S. dollar. Fees and other revenues increased $20.9 million, or 37%, to $77.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $56.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. An increase of $14.5 million in Mexico was primarily a result of an increase in the number of retirement plan participants due to the acquisition of Zurich AFORE in May 2002 and AFORE Tepeyac in February 2003. In addition, an increase of $3.0 million in Argentina was primarily a result of increased surrender fees. Net investment income increased $0.1 million, to $139.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $139.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. 54 Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $24.2 million, or 10%, to $268.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $243.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. A $33.3 million increase in Chile was primarily a result of higher reserve expenses due to record sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies in 2003 following a year of decreased sales due to market contraction. The increase was partially offset by a $7.4 million decrease in Mexico due to lower reserve expenses related to additional premiums on a large group annuity contract in 2002 and the cancellation of a personal accident product in 2003. Operating expenses increased $16.6 million, or 19%, to $104.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $87.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. An increase of $8.3 million in Chile was primarily the impact of unlocking of the value of business acquired ("VOBA") amortization stemming from declining interest rates. An increase of $5.7 million in Mexico was primarily due to the acquisition of Zurich AFORE in May 2002 and AFORE Tepeyac in February 2003 and increased marketing expenses in 2003, offset partially by a net impact of unlocking of DPAC and VOBA. In addition, an increase of $2.8 million in Argentina was primarily due to the unlocking of DPAC stemming from an increase in lapses. Operating expenses incurred by BT Financial Group were $4.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. These expenses represent corporate overhead allocated to BT Financial Group and do not qualify for discontinued operations treatment. Income tax expense decreased $2.0 million, or 28%, to $5.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $7.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. A decrease of $3.0 million in Mexico was primarily due to income tax adjustments related to inflation. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings increased $15.4 million, or 79%, to $34.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $19.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. Net realized/unrealized capital gains, as adjusted, decreased $9.9 million, or 80%, to $2.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $12.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. A decrease of $5.7 million in Argentina was primarily related to losses realized on the remeasurement of assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the Argentine peso. A decrease of $5.3 million in Chile resulted primarily from losses realized on the sale of fixed maturity securities. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of other after tax adjustments, net income increased $500.3 million to $59.2 million of net income for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $441.1 million of net loss for the year ended December 31, 2002. For the year ended December 31, 2003, net income included the positive effect of other after tax adjustments totaling $21.8 million, related to the change in the estimated loss on disposal of BT Financial Group. For the year ended December 31, 2002, net loss included the negative effect of other after tax adjustments totaling $473.0 million, related to: (1) the cumulative effect of accounting change, a result of our implementation of SFAS 142 ($276.3 million) and (2) the loss from discontinued operations of BT Financial Group ($196.7 million). YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 Premiums and other considerations decreased $183.0 million, or 53%, to $161.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $344.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. A decrease of $145.0 million in Mexico was the result of decreased sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies primarily due to the sale of a large group annuity contract in 2001 and to a lesser extent prolonged government retention of potential annuitants in 2002. A decrease of $23.9 million in Argentina was primarily due to the weakening of the Argentine peso versus the U.S. dollar and of the general economic environment. In addition, a decrease of $13.5 million in Chile was primarily a result of the weakening of the Chilean peso versus the U.S. dollar and to a lesser extent decreased sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies due to market contraction. Fees and other revenues increased $10.3 million, or 22%, to $56.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $46.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. An increase of $9.5 million in Mexico was a result of an increase in 55 the number of retirement plan participants due to the acquisition of Zurich AFORE in May 2002. In addition, an increase of $1.9 million in Hong Kong was primarily due to an increase in assets under management. Net investment income increased $22.2 million, or 19%, to $139.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $117.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The increase was primarily related to a $217.3 million, or 18%, increase in average invested assets and cash, excluding our equity investment in subsidiaries. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in investment yields. The annualized yield on average invested assets and cash, excluding our equity investment in subsidiaries, was 9.5% for the year ended December 31, 2002, compared to 9.6% for the year ended December 31, 2001. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $163.7 million, or 40%, to $243.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $407.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. A $134.5 million decrease in Mexico was the result of higher reserve changes and policy and contract benefit payments recognized in 2001 due to the sale of a large group annuity contract with life contingencies and to a lesser extent prolonged government retention of potential annuitants in 2002. A decrease of $20.4 million in Argentina was primarily related to the weakening of the Argentine peso versus the U.S. dollar and of the general economic environment. In addition, a decrease of $8.1 million in Chile was primarily a result of the weakening of the Chilean peso versus the U.S. dollar, partially offset by higher interest credited to customers. Operating expenses decreased $13.7 million, or 14%, to $87.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $101.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. An $11.0 million decrease in Argentina was primarily related to the weakening of the Argentine peso versus the U.S. dollar and of the general economic environment. Operating expenses incurred by BT Financial Group were $4.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2002 and $5.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. These expenses represent corporate overhead allocated to BT Financial Group and do not qualify for discontinued operations treatment. Income tax expense increased $9.7 million to $7.1 million of income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2002, from a $2.6 million income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2001. The increase was primarily a result of an increase in pre tax operating earnings. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings increased $17.2 million to $19.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $2.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Net realized/unrealized capital gains, as adjusted, increased $41.6 million to $12.4 million of net realized/unrealized capital gains for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $29.2 million of net realized/unrealized capital losses for the year ended December 31, 2001. The increase was primarily due to a $21.0 million after tax net realized capital loss on the February 2001 sale of our operations in Spain. In addition, a $17.7 million increase was primarily related to losses resulting from the permanent impairment of certain fixed maturity securities in Argentina in 2001. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of other after tax adjustments, net loss increased $403.0 million to $441.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $38.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. For the year ended December 31, 2002, net loss included the negative effect of other after tax adjustments totaling $473.0 million, related to: (1) the cumulative effect of accounting change, a result of our implementation of SFAS 142 ($276.3 million) and (2) the loss from discontinued operations of BT Financial Group ($196.7 million). For the year ended December 31, 2001, net loss included the negative effect of other after tax adjustments totaling $11.2 million, related to the loss from discontinued operations of BT Financial Group. 56 LIFE AND HEALTH INSURANCE SEGMENT INDIVIDUAL AND GROUP LIFE INSURANCE TRENDS Our life insurance premiums have been influenced by both economic and industry trends. In addition, we are seeing a shift in individual life insurance sales from traditional life insurance products to universal and variable universal products. Premiums related to our individual traditional life insurance products have declined due to the shift in customer preference. Group life insurance premiums declined from 2001 through 2003 due primarily to some large case terminations. The following table provides a summary of our individual life insurance premium and deposits and group life insurance premium and fees for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001: LIFE INSURANCE INDIVIDUAL UNIVERSAL AND VARIABLE UNIVERSAL LIFE INDIVIDUAL INSURANCE TRADITIONAL LIFE INSURANCE GROUP LIFE INSURANCE FOR THE YEAR ENDED PREMIUM AND DEPOSITS PREMIUM AND DEPOSITS PREMIUM AND FEES (IN MILLIONS) December 31, 2003........ $ 337.6 $ 710.9 $ 216.7 December 31, 2002........ 298.1 737.2 217.9 December 31, 2001........ 270.1 766.2 222.0 The following table provides a summary of our life insurance policyholder liabilities as of December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001: LIFE INSURANCE INDIVIDUAL UNIVERSAL AND VARIABLE UNIVERSAL LIFE INDIVIDUAL INSURANCE TRADITIONAL LIFE INSURANCE GROUP LIFE INSURANCE AS OF POLICYHOLDER LIABILITIES(1) POLICYHOLDER LIABILITIES POLICYHOLDER LIABILITIES (IN MILLIONS) December 31, 2003........ $ 2,269.0 $ 6,011.0 $ 277.2 December 31, 2002........ 1,900.9 5,851.4 264.9 December 31, 2001........ 1,748.5 5,712.7 259.5 (1) Includes separate account liabilities for policies with variable investment options. HEALTH INSURANCE TRENDS Improved pricing discipline in our group medical insurance business has affected premium growth during the past few years. In general, we reacted faster than the industry in 2000 to rising healthcare costs by raising our prices. That action depressed sales and increased lapses, causing a loss of membership. Inforce membership has also been impacted by the decision to exit the small case medical business in Florida. The decline in medical membership reversed itself in late 2003, as membership increased slightly for each of the last four months of the year. We experienced similar patterns in our group dental insurance business, which has also begun to show slight growth in each of the last four months of the year. We continue to sell group medical business in 35 states plus the District of Columbia. We also offer dental business in 50 states plus the District of Columbia, vision coverage in 49 states plus the District of Columbia, and fee for service business in all 50 states plus the District of Columbia. While membership has declined over the past few years, premium revenue has grown due to price increases and to some degree, due to the impact of reinsurance. The medical reinsurance contract was entered into in 2002 and as such premiums in 2002 were reduced by $45.4 million of ceded premium. In 2003, the contract was amended and the accounting treatment was changed to the deposit method so no premiums were ceded in 2003. These changes have impacted the premium trend during the three year period illustrated below. 57 Our health insurance premium and fees for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 were as follows: PREMIUM AND FEES GROUP DENTAL GROUP MEDICAL AND VISION FOR THE YEAR ENDED INSURANCE(1) INSURANCE FEE FOR SERVICE (IN MILLIONS) December 31, 2003........... $ 1,561.7 $ 352.2 $ 142.8 December 31, 2002........... 1,532.4 343.7 129.9 December 31, 2001........... 1,524.5 350.9 121.9 (1) Beginning September 1, 2002, we began non renewing small group medical business in the state of Florida. In addition, our medical reinsurance contract decreased premiums by $45.4 million in 2002 and had no impact on 2001 or 2003. INDIVIDUAL AND GROUP DISABILITY INSURANCE TRENDS Premium growth for our group and individual disability business in 2003 and 2002 is being driven by growing sales and stable persistency. This has been a result of more focused distribution supporting these product lines. The following table provides a summary of our disability insurance premium and fees and policyholder liabilities as of or for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001: DISABILITY INSURANCE INDIVIDUAL DISABILITY INSURANCE GROUP DISABILITY INSURANCE AS OF OR FOR THE YEAR PREMIUM AND POLICYHOLDER PREMIUM AND POLICYHOLDER ENDED FEES LIABILITIES FEES LIABILITIES (IN MILLIONS) December 31, 2003........... $102.5 $ 472.0 $140.0 $ 350.4 December 31, 2002........... 93.7 426.8 109.9 313.1 December 31, 2001........... 83.5 381.5 97.0 286.7 58 LIFE AND HEALTH INSURANCE SEGMENT SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the Life and Health Insurance segment for the years indicated: FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 2002 2001 (IN MILLIONS) OPERATING EARNINGS DATA: Operating Revenues(1): Premiums and other considerations..................... $3,019.0 $ 2,973.4 $3,011.1 Fees and other revenues............................... 338.9 313.2 256.7 Net investment income................................. 656.4 660.2 678.6 Total operating revenues............................ 4,014.3 3,946.8 3,946.4 Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses.............. 2,457.7 2,433.4 2,491.0 Dividends to policyholders............................ 301.0 307.0 307.0 Operating expenses.................................... 891.8 851.2 842.7 Total expenses...................................... 3,650.5 3,591.6 3,640.7 Pre tax operating earnings.............................. 363.8 355.2 305.7 Income taxes............................................ 122.6 122.1 104.5 Operating earnings...................................... 241.2 233.1 201.2 Net realized/unrealized capital losses, as adjusted..... (16.6) (50.0) (33.8) Other after tax adjustments............................. (4.6) 0.1 U.S. GAAP REPORTED: Net income.............................................. $ 224.6 $ 178.5 $ 167.5 (1) Excludes net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses). YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 Premiums and other considerations increased $45.6 million, or 2%, to $3,019.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $2,973.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. Disability insurance premiums increased $38.9 million primarily due to increased sales and favorable retention. Health insurance premiums increased $38.1 million, primarily resulting from a reduction in ceded premium from group medical reinsurance, which was a result of a change in the accounting treatment of the contract, and rate increases. These increases in health insurance premium were partially offset by a decline in insured medical and dental members. Also, partially offsetting these increases was a decrease of $31.4 million in life insurance premiums, primarily a result of the continued shift from individual traditional life insurance products to individual universal and variable universal life insurance products. Fees and other revenues increased $25.7 million, or 8%, to $338.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $313.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. Fee revenues from our life insurance business increased $13.1 million, a result of the continued shift in customer preference to fee based universal and variable universal life insurance products. Fee revenues from our health insurance business increased $12.6 million, primarily due to growth and fee increases in our fee for service business. Net investment income decreased $3.8 million, or 1%, to $656.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $660.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. The decrease primarily relates to a decrease in the average annualized yield on invested assets and cash, which was 6.7% for the year ended December 31, 2003, compared to 7.1% for the year ended December 31, 2002. This reflects lower yields on fixed maturity securities and commercial mortgages due in part 59 to a lower interest rate environment. The decrease was partially offset by a $508.0, or 5%, increase in average invested assets and cash for the segment. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $24.3 million, or 1%, to $2,457.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $2,433.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. Disability insurance benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $16.9 million, primarily due to growth in the business; however, loss ratios improved over this period. Health insurance benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $10.2 million primarily due to a reduction in ceded claims for group medical reinsurance related to a change in the accounting treatment of the contract and by increased claim costs per member. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in covered members. Dividends to policyholders decreased $6.0 million, or 2%, to $301.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $307.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. The decrease is primarily related to changes in the individual life insurance dividend scale and a decrease in the dividend interest crediting rates resulting from the declining interest rate environment. Operating expenses increased $40.6 million, or 5%, to $891.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $851.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. Health insurance operating expenses increased $32.2 million, primarily due to increased employee benefit costs, increased premium taxes and accounting for a group medical reinsurance contract under the deposit method of accounting. Disability insurance operating expenses increased $26.3 million due to increases in the loss adjustment expense, employee benefit cost, and non deferrable expenses associated with growth in the business. Partially offsetting these increases was a $17.9 million decrease in life insurance operating expenses primarily due to decreased DPAC amortization related to the implementation of new DPAC valuation models for the individual universal and variable universal life insurance and traditional life insurance businesses. Income taxes increased $0.5 million to $122.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $122.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. The effective income tax rate for the segment was 34% for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002. The effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, were lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35% primarily due to tax exempt income. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings increased $8.1 million, or 3%, to $241.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $233.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. Net realized/unrealized capital losses, as adjusted, decreased $33.4 million, or 67%, to $16.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $50.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. The decrease resulted from lower realized capital losses related to other than temporary declines in the value of certain fixed maturity securities. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of other after tax adjustments, net income increased $46.1 million, or 26%, to $224.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $178.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. The other after tax adjustment for the year ended December 31, 2002, had a negative impact on net income of $4.6 million due to the cumulative effect of accounting change, a result of our implementation of SFAS 142. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 Premiums and other considerations decreased $37.7 million, or 1%, to $2,973.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $3,011.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Life insurance premiums decreased $63.2 million, primarily resulting from the reclassification of revenues from our group universal life insurance product from premium to fee revenues and the continued shift of customer preference from traditional life insurance products to fee based universal and variable universal life insurance products. Partially offsetting the decrease was a $23.1 million increase in disability insurance premiums due to strong sales in 2002. 60 Fees and other revenues increased $56.5 million, or 22%, to $313.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $256.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Fee revenues from our life insurance business increased $50.2 million, primarily due to the reclassification of revenues from our group universal life product to fee revenues from premium and the continued shift in customer preference, as previously mentioned. Fee revenues from our health insurance business increased $6.3 million, primarily a result of selling additional services to existing fee for service customers and related price increases. Net investment income decreased $18.4 million, or 3%, to $660.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $678.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The decrease primarily reflects lower investment yields due in part to an overall lower interest rate environment. The annualized yield on average invested assets and cash was 7.1% for the year ended December 31, 2002, compared to 7.6% for the year ended December 31, 2001. Partially offsetting the decrease was a $357.8 million, or 4%, increase in average invested assets and cash for the segment. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $57.6 million, or 2%, to $2,433.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $2,491.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Health insurance benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $40.8 million, primarily due to amounts received from a reinsurer. Life insurance benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $27.9 million primarily due to lower death claims and a lower reserve increase related to the decrease in premium on traditional life insurance business. Partially offsetting these decreases was an $11.1 million increase in disability insurance benefits, claims and settlement expenses, primarily a result of growth in the business. Operating expenses increased $8.5 million, or 1%, to $851.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $842.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Disability insurance operating expenses increased $4.8 million due to expenses associated with higher sales, increased commissions on higher premiums, and increased amortization of DPAC on a growing block of business. Life insurance operating expenses increased $2.5 million primarily due to an increase in compensation costs partially offset by an increase in the capitalization of DPAC related to higher sales and the reclassifying of fees received from reinsurance ceded from fee revenue to operating expenses. In addition, Health operating expenses increased $1.2 million, primarily a result of increased commissions partially offset by several one time expenses in 2001. Income taxes increased $17.6 million, or 17%, to $122.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $104.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The effective income tax rate for the segment was 34% for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001. The effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2002 and 2001, were lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35% primarily due to tax exempt income. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings increased $31.9 million, or 16%, to $233.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $201.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Net realized/unrealized capital losses, as adjusted, increased $16.2 million, or 48%, to $50.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $33.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The increase includes an increase in realized capital losses related to other than temporary declines in the value of certain fixed maturity securities partially offset by lower capital losses on the sales of fixed maturity securities. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of other after tax adjustments, net income increased $11.0 million, or 7%, to $178.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $167.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The other after tax adjustment for the year ended December 31, 2002, had a negative impact on net income of $4.6 million due to the cumulative effect of accounting change, a result of our implementation of SFAS 142. The other after tax adjustment for the year ended December 31, 2001, had a positive impact on net income of $0.1 million due to the cumulative effect of accounting change, a result of our implementation of SFAS 133. 61 MORTGAGE BANKING SEGMENT MORTGAGE BANKING TRENDS We believe residential mortgages play a central role in the financial planning activities of individuals in the U.S. As a result, our mortgage banking operations complement our portfolio of market driven financial products and services. Interest rate trends significantly impact our residential mortgage business. Starting in early 2001 interest rates declined resulting in increases in the production of both purchase and refinance mortgage loans throughout the industry. This trend continued through all of 2002 and much of 2003. However, interest rates increased during the third and fourth quarters resulting in a decrease in mortgage loan production in the fourth quarter of 2003. We manage growth in the mortgage loan servicing portfolio through retention of originated mortgage loan servicing and the acquisition, and occasional sale, of mortgage servicing rights. Our servicing portfolio grew at a compound annual rate of 21% between December 31, 2001 and December 31, 2003. Growth was steady during this period and resulted from strong mortgage loan production net of servicing portfolio prepayments, strong servicing acquisitions and very few servicing sales. Our residential mortgage loan production and the unpaid principal balances in our residential mortgage loan servicing portfolio as of or for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 were as follows: RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE AS OF OR FOR THE YEAR ENDED LOAN PRODUCTION LOAN SERVICING PORTFOLIO (IN MILLIONS) December 31, 2003.................... $ 58,653.4 $ 118,692.1 December 31, 2002.................... 46,811.2 107,745.3 December 31, 2001.................... 37,771.3 80,530.5 MORTGAGE BANKING SEGMENT SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the Mortgage Banking segment for the years indicated: 62 FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 2002 2001 (IN MILLIONS) OPERATING EARNINGS DATA: Operating Revenues: Loan servicing......................... $ 702.5 $ 590.1 $ 403.0 Loan production........................ 694.3 562.9 354.4 Total operating revenues............. 1,396.8 1,153.0 757.4 Expenses: Loan servicing......................... 1,101.2 711.8 407.3 Loan production........................ 211.3 196.4 145.0 Total expenses....................... 1,312.5 908.2 552.3 Pre tax operating earnings............... 84.3 244.8 205.1 Income taxes............................. 31.1 101.9 78.4 Operating earnings....................... 53.2 142.9 126.7 Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses), as adjusted................. Other after tax adjustments.............. (10.0) U.S. GAAP REPORTED: Net income............................... $ 43.2 $ 142.9 $ 126.7 YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 Total operating revenues increased $243.8 million, or 21%, to $1,396.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $1,153.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. Residential mortgage loan production revenues increased $131.4 million primarily due to an increase in mortgage loan production, which increased to $58.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2003, compared to $46.8 billion for the same period a year ago. In addition, an increase of $112.4 million in mortgage loan servicing revenues reflects the growth in the mortgage loan servicing portfolio. The average balance of the servicing portfolio was $115.2 billion for the year ended December 31, 2003, compared to $95.7 billion for the same period a year ago. Total expenses increased $404.3 million, or 45%, to $1,312.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $908.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. Residential mortgage loan servicing expenses increased $389.4 million primarily due to a $273.9 million increase in the impairment of capitalized mortgage servicing rights net of servicing hedge activity, increased amortization of mortgage servicing rights and, to a lesser extent, increased expenses related to growth in the servicing portfolio. The increase in impairment of capitalized mortgage servicing rights reflects the lack of an active market for trading servicing rights. The lack of an active and robust servicing market resulted in us seeking additional evidence in the form of independent appraisals to support the fair value of capitalized mortgage servicing rights. Based on this information, we performed an analysis of our mortgage servicing rights portfolio, which resulted in an additional impairment charge of $141.3 million in December of 2003. Mortgage loan production expenses increased $14.9 million, reflecting the increase in mortgage loan production volume. Income taxes decreased $70.8 million, or 69%, to $31.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $101.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. The effective income tax rate for this segment was 37% for the year ended December 31, 2003, and 42% for the year ended December 31, 2002. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, were higher than the corporate income tax rate of 35% due to state income taxes. The higher effective tax rate of 42% for the year ended December 31, 2002, was primarily due to the cumulative effect of increasing deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax expense for a change in the state income tax apportionment factor, a result of our sale of substantially all of BT Financial Group. 63 As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings decreased $89.7 million, or 63%, to $53.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $142.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. For the year ended December 31, 2003, net income included the negative effect of other after tax adjustments totaling $10.0 million related to a cumulative effect of accounting change due to our implementation of FIN 46. As a result of the foregoing factors, net income decreased $99.7 million, or 70%, to $43.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $142.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 Total operating revenues increased $395.6 million, or 52%, to $1,153.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $757.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Residential mortgage loan production revenues increased $208.5 million primarily due to an increase in mortgage loan production, which increased to $46.8 billion for the year ended December 31, 2002, compared to $37.8 billion for the same period a year ago. A $187.1 million increase in residential mortgage loan servicing revenues reflects an increase in the residential mortgage loan servicing portfolio. The average balance of the servicing portfolio was $95.7 billion for the year ended December 31, 2002, compared to $65.8 billion for the same period a year ago. In addition, mortgage loan servicing revenues increased due to a gain on the sale of approximately $300.0 million of delinquent Government National Mortgage Association ("GNMA") loans during the second quarter of 2002. This sale generated revenues of $15.0 million in 2002 with no corresponding sale of loans in 2001. Total expenses increased $355.9 million, or 64%, to $908.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $552.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. A $304.5 million increase in residential mortgage loan servicing expenses resulted from increased expenses related to growth in the servicing portfolio and a $137.3 million increase in impairment of capitalized mortgage servicing rights net of servicing hedge activity. Residential mortgage loan production expenses increased $51.4 million reflecting the increase in residential mortgage loan production volume. Income taxes increased $23.5 million, or 30%, to $101.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $78.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. The increase in income taxes primarily resulted from an increase in pre tax operating earnings. The effective income tax rate for this segment was 42% for the year ended December 31, 2002, and 38% for the year ended December 31, 2001. The increase in the effective tax rate to 42% for the year ended December 31, 2002, from 38% for the year ended December 31, 2001, was primarily due to the cumulative effect of increasing deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax expense for a change in the state income tax apportionment factor, a result of our sale of substantially all of BT Financial Group. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings and net income increased $16.2 million, or 13%, to $142.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $126.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. CORPORATE AND OTHER SEGMENT CORPORATE AND OTHER SEGMENT SUMMARY FINANCIAL DATA The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the Corporate and Other segment for the years indicated: 64 FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 2002 2001 (IN MILLIONS) OPERATING EARNINGS DATA: Operating Revenues(1): Total operating revenues........................... $ 8.8 $ (15.1) $101.7 Expenses: Total expenses..................................... 37.6 33.4 44.2 Pre tax operating earnings (loss).................... (28.8) (48.5) 57.5 Income taxes (benefits).............................. (16.3) (31.5) 19.4 Operating earnings (loss)............................ (12.5) (17.0) 38.1 Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses), as adjusted........................................... 44.6 44.2 (93.3) Other after tax adjustments.......................... 37.2 114.4 (20.4) U.S. GAAP REPORTED: Net income (loss).................................... $69.3 $ 141.6 $(75.6) (1) Excludes net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses). YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 Total operating revenues increased $23.9 million to a positive $8.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from a negative $15.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. Net investment income increased $17.6 million, reflecting an increase in average invested assets and cash as well as higher average annualized investment yields for the segment. The higher investment yields were primarily driven by the occurrence of unusually high earnings and mortgage prepayment income associated with the sale of certain minority held real estate assets in the current year. The increase in total revenues was also partially due to a $4.8 million decrease in inter segment eliminations included in this segment, which was offset by a corresponding change in total expenses. Total expenses increased $4.2 million, or 13%, to $37.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $33.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. An increase of $6.2 million related to interest expense on the 144A debt, largely due to the termination of the hedges that were in place in 2002. Inter segment eliminations included in this segment decreased $4.8 million, resulting in an increase in total expenses. In addition, an increase of $3.7 million related to an increase in the allocation of costs associated with operating as a public company. Interest expense also increased $3.2 million, primarily due to interest related to federal income tax audit activities. The increases were largely offset by a decrease of $15.0 million related to corporate initiatives funded by this segment. Income tax benefits decreased $15.2 million, or 48%, to $16.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $31.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in pre tax operating loss as well as an additional state income tax benefit that was recognized in 2002. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating loss decreased $4.5 million, or 26%, to $12.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $17.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. Net realized/unrealized capital gains, as adjusted, increased $0.4 million, or 1%, to $44.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $44.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. Gains on the mark to market of certain seed money investments, reduced losses on sales of invested assets, and the strengthening of foreign currency exchange rates in 2003 were substantially offset by lower gains due to the sale of our investment in Coventry in February 2002. 65 As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of other after tax adjustments, net income decreased $72.3 million, or 51%, to $69.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2003, from $141.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. For the year ended December 31, 2003, net income included the positive effect of other after tax adjustments totaling $37.2 million related to: (1) a decrease in income tax reserves established for contested IRS tax audit matters ($28.9 million) and (2) the cumulative effect of accounting change, a result of our implementation of FIN 46 ($8.3 million). For the year ended December 31, 2002, net income included the effect of other after tax adjustments totaling $114.4 million related to: (1) the positive effect of the settlement of an IRS audit issue ($138.0 million) and (2) the negative effects of (a) an increase in our loss contingency reserve for sales practices litigation ($21.6 million) and (b) expenses related to our demutualization ($2.0 million). YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2002 COMPARED TO YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2001 Total operating revenues decreased $116.8 million to a negative $15.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from a positive $101.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Net investment income decreased $62.8 million, reflecting a decrease in investment gains on real estate due to lower sales of certain real estate held for sale, compared to an unusually high volume of sales experienced in 2001. In addition, net investment income decreased $39.3 million due to a decrease of average investment yields for the segment. The decrease in total revenues was also partially due to a $21.0 million increase in inter segment eliminations included in this segment, which was offset by a corresponding change in total expenses. Total expenses decreased $10.8 million, or 24%, to $33.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $44.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2001. Inter segment eliminations included in this segment increased $21.0 million, resulting in a decrease in total expenses. In addition, a $6.8 million decrease related to a prior year write off of a non invested asset. These decreases were partially offset by an $11.0 million increase in interest expense, primarily due to interest related to federal income tax audit activities as well as a $6.8 million increase due to costs associated with operating as a public company. Income tax benefits increased $50.9 million to $31.5 million of income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $19.4 million of income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2001. The increase was primarily a result of a decrease in pre tax operating earnings. The increase was also due to a decrease in income tax reserves established for contested IRS tax audit matters. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating loss increased $55.1 million to $17.0 million of operating loss for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $38.1 million of operating earnings for the year ended December 31, 2001. Net realized/unrealized capital gains, as adjusted, increased $137.5 million to $44.2 million of net realized/unrealized capital gains for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $93.3 million of net realized/unrealized capital losses for the year ended December 31, 2001. The increase was primarily due to realized capital gains related to the sale of our investment in Coventry in February 2002, and to a lesser extent, other sales of invested assets. The increases were partially offset by the mark to market of certain seed money investments. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of other after tax adjustments, net income increased $217.2 million to $141.6 million of net income for the year ended December 31, 2002, from $75.6 million of net loss for the year ended December 31, 2001. For the year ended December 31, 2002, net income included the effect of other after tax adjustments totaling $114.4 million related to: (1) the positive effect of the settlement of an IRS audit issue ($138.0 million) and (2) the negative effects of (a) an increase in our loss contingency reserve for sales practices litigation ($21.6 million) and (b) 66 expenses related to our demutualization ($2.0 million). For the year ended December 31, 2001, net loss included the effect of other after tax adjustments totaling $20.4 million related to: (1) the negative effects of (a) expenses related to our demutualization ($18.6 million) and (b) an increase in our loss contingency reserve for sales practices litigation ($5.9 million) and (2) the positive effect of investment income generated from the proceeds of our IPO ($4.1 million). LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES Our legal entity organizational structure has an impact on our ability to meet cash flow needs as an organization. Following is a simplified organizational structure. Principal Financial Group, Inc. | Principal Financial Services, Inc. | | | Principal Life Principal International Other Insurance Company Entities Subsidiaries | | Principal Residential Other Mortage, Inc. Subsidiaires THE HOLDING COMPANIES: PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL GROUP, INC. AND PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC. Liquidity describes the ability of a company to generate sufficient cash flows to meet the cash requirements of business operations. Our parent holding company, Principal Financial Group, Inc., is a Delaware business corporation, whose assets primarily consist of the outstanding capital stock of its subsidiaries. As a holding company, Principal Financial Group Inc.s ability to meet cash requirements, including the payments of dividends on common stock and the repurchase of stock, substantially depends upon dividends from subsidiaries, primarily Principal Life. The payment of stockholder dividends by Principal Life to its parent company is limited by Iowa laws. Under Iowa laws, Principal Life may pay dividends only from the earned surplus arising from its business and must receive the prior approval of the Insurance Commissioner of the State of Iowa ("the Commissioner") to pay a stockholder dividend if such a stockholder dividend would exceed certain statutory limitations. The current statutory limitation is the greater of: o 10% of Principal Lifes statutory policyholder surplus as of the previous year end; or o the statutory net gain from operations from the previous calendar year. Iowa law gives the Commissioner discretion to disapprove requests for dividends in excess of these limits. Based on this limitation and 2003 statutory results, Principal Life could pay approximately $701.2 million in stockholder dividends in 2004 without exceeding the statutory limitation. Principal Life was able to pay approximately $746.6 million in statutory dividends in 2003 based on its 2002 statutory financial results without being subject to the restrictions on payment of extraordinary stockholder dividends. Total stockholder dividends paid by Principal Life to its parent company in 2002 were $590.2 million. Principal Life did not pay a dividend in 2003. Another source of liquidity is issuance of our common stock. Proceeds from the issuance of our common stock were $18.3 million and $22.0 million in 2003 and 2002, respectively. In 2001, net proceeds from our IPO totaled $1,753.9 million, of which we retained $64.2 million for working capital, payment of dividends, and other general corporate purposes. The remaining $1,689.7 million was contributed to Principal Life principally to fund demutualization compensation to policyholders in the form of policy credits and cash, and to cover certain expenses related to our demutualization. In addition, net proceeds from the issuance of additional shares for the exercise of the over allotment options granted to the underwriters in the IPO, totaled $265.4 million, all of which we retained for repurchase of shares issued in the exercise of the over allotment options. 67 In 2003, we paid $145.3 million in dividends to shareholders. We paid a dividend of $0.45 per share on December 8, 2003, to shareholders of record as of November 7, 2003. In 2002, we paid $83.8 million, or $0.25 per share, in dividends to shareholders. In the last two years, our board of directors has authorized various repurchase programs under which we are allowed to purchase shares of our outstanding common stock. Shares repurchased under these programs are accounted for as treasury stock, carried at cost and reflected as a reduction to stockholders equity. The repurchases are made in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions, from time to time, depending on market conditions. In May 2003, our board of directors authorized a repurchase program of up to $300.0 million of our outstanding common stock. This program began after the completion of the November 2002 repurchase program, which authorized the repurchase of up to $300.0 million of our outstanding common stock. We acquired 15.0 million and 27.0 million shares in the open market at an aggregate cost of $453.0 million and $750.0 million during the years ended December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. As of December 31, 2003, $147.0 million remains outstanding under the existing share repurchase authorization. Sources of liquidity also include facilities for short term and long term borrowing as needed, arranged through our intermediate holding company, Principal Financial Services Inc. ("PFSI"), and its subsidiaries. See "Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments" below. Although we generate adequate cash flow to meet the needs of our normal operations, periodically the need may arise to issue debt to fund internal expansion, acquisitions, investment opportunities and the retirement of existing debt and equity. In December 2003, we filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The shelf registration totals $3.0 billion, with the ability to issue debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, warrants, stock purchase contracts and stock purchase units of Principal Financial Group, Inc ("PFG") and trust preferred securities of three subsidiary trusts. If we issue securities, we intend to use the proceeds from the sale of the securities offered by this prospectus, including the corresponding junior subordinated debentures issued to the trusts in connection with their investment of all the proceeds from the sale of preferred securities, for general corporate purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures, investments in subsidiaries, acquisitions and refinancing of debt, including commercial paper and other short term indebtedness. PFSI unconditionally guarantees our obligations with respect to one or more series of debt securities described in the shelf registration statement. PRINCIPAL LIFE Historically, the principal cash flow sources for Principal Life have been premiums from life and health insurance products, pension and annuity deposits, asset management fee revenues, administrative services fee revenues, income from investments, proceeds from the sales or maturity of investments, long term debt and short term borrowings. Cash outflows consist primarily of payment of benefits to policyholders and beneficiaries, income and other taxes, current operating expenses, payment of dividends to policyholders, payments in connection with investments acquired, payments made to acquire subsidiaries, payment of dividends to parent, and payments relating to policy and contract surrenders, withdrawals, policy loans, interest expense and repayment of short term borrowings and long term debt. Principal Life maintains investment strategies generally intended to provide adequate funds to pay benefits without forced sales of investments. Products having liabilities with longer lives, such as life insurance and full service payout pension products, are matched with assets having similar estimated lives such as mortgage loans, long term bonds and private placement bonds. Shorter term liabilities are matched with investments such as short and medium term fixed maturities. In addition, highly liquid, high quality short term investments are held to fund anticipated operating expenses, surrenders, withdrawals and development and maintenance expenses associated with new products and technologies. Our privately placed fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage loans and real estate investments are generally less liquid than our publicly traded fixed maturity securities. As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, these asset classes represented approximately 41% and 43%, respectively, of the value of our consolidated invested assets. See Item 7A. "Quantitative and 68 Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rate Risk" for a discussion of duration matching. Life insurance companies generally produce a positive cash flow from operations, as measured by the amount by which cash inflows are adequate to meet benefit obligations to policyholders and normal operating expenses as they are incurred. The remaining cash flow is generally used to increase the asset base to provide funds to meet the need for future policy benefit payments and for writing and acquiring new business. It is important to match the investment portfolio maturities to the cash flow demands of the type of annuity, investment or insurance product being provided. Principal Life continuously monitors benefits, surrenders and maturities to provide projections of future cash requirements. As part of this monitoring process, Principal Life performs cash flow testing of many of its assets and liabilities under various scenarios to evaluate the adequacy of reserves. In developing its investment strategy, Principal Life establishes a level of cash and securities which, combined with expected net cash inflows from operations, maturities of fixed maturity investments and principal payments on mortgage backed securities and commercial mortgage loans, are believed adequate to meet anticipated short term and long term benefit and expense payment obligations. There can be no assurance that future experience regarding benefits and surrenders will be similar to historic experience since withdrawal and surrender levels are influenced by such factors as the interest rate environment and the claims paying ability and financial strength ratings of Principal Life. Principal Life takes into account asset liability management considerations in the product development and design process. Contract terms of 97% and 95% of Principal Lifes universal and variable universal life insurance products as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively, include surrender and withdrawal provisions which mitigate the risk of losses due to early withdrawals. These provisions generally do one or more of the following: limit the amount of penalty free withdrawals; limit the circumstances under which withdrawals are permitted; or assess a surrender charge or market value adjustment relating to the underlying assets. The market value adjustment feature in Principal Lifes fixed annuity products adjusts the surrender value of a contract in the event of surrender prior to the end of the contract period to protect Principal Life against losses due to higher interest rates at the time of surrender. Our GICs and funding agreements contain provisions limiting early surrenders, including penalties for early surrenders and minimum notice requirements. Put provisions give customers the option to terminate a contract prior to maturity, provided they give a minimum notice period. We no longer issue puttable GICs. The following table presents U.S. GAAP reserves for guaranteed investment contracts and funding agreements by withdrawal provisions as of December 31, 2003 and 2002: 69 AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2003 2002 (IN MILLIONS) BOOK VALUE OUT(1) Puttable: Less than 30 days put................................... $ $ 30 to 89 days put....................................... 90 to 180 days put...................................... More than 180 days put.................................. 55.1 No active put provision(2)............................... Total puttable........................................ 55.1 Surrenderable: Book value out without surrender charge.................. 8.1 9.5 Book value out with surrender charge..................... 1,355.1 869.5 Total surrenderable................................... 1,363.2 879.0 Total book value out.............................. 1,363.2 934.1 MARKET VALUE OUT(3) Less than 30 days notice.................................. 8.4 30 to 89 days notice...................................... 33.7 116.3 90 to 180 days notice..................................... 559.2 981.2 More than 180 days notice................................. 4,349.3 4,623.8 No active surrender provision.............................. 149.8 164.4 Total market value out................................ 5,092.0 5,894.1 Not puttable or surrenderable.............................. 15,749.3 13,312.5 Total GICs and funding agreements..................... $22,204.5 $20,140.7 (1) Book Value Out: The amount equal to the sum of deposits less withdrawals with interest accrued at the contractual interest rate. (2) Contracts currently in initial lock out period but which will become puttable with 90 days notice at some time in the future. (3) Market Value Out: The amount equal to the book value out plus a market value adjustment to adjust for changes in interest rates. INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS We have received approximately U.S. $890.0 million of total proceeds from our sale of substantially all of BT Financial Group to Westpac. This amount includes cash proceeds from Westpac, expected tax benefits, and a gain from unwinding the hedged asset associated with our investment in BT Financial Group. An additional future contingent receipt of approximately U.S. $115.0 million may be received in 2004, if Westpac experiences growth in their retail assets under management. We do not anticipate receiving the contingent proceeds. Our Brazilian, Chilean and Mexican operations produced positive cash flow from operations for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001. These cash flows have been historically maintained at the local country level for strategic expansion purposes and local capital requirements. Our international operations have required infusions of capital of $90.9 million, $95.8 million, and $44.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002, and 2001, primarily to fund acquisitions and to a lesser extent, to meet the cash outflow and capital requirements of certain operations. These other international operations are 70 primarily in the start up stage or are expanding in the short term. Our capital funding of these operations is consistent with our long term strategy to establish viable companies that can sustain future growth from internally generated sources. SOURCES AND USES OF CASH OF CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS Net cash provided by operating activities was $3,713.8 million, $5,379.6 million and $3,912.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The decrease in cash provided in 2003 as compared to 2002 is primarily due to a reduction in funds collected on behalf of investors in our residential mortgage loans and on behalf of our borrowers, related to mortgage banking services. The increase in 2002 compared to 2001 is primarily related to an increase in mortgage banking servicing and production fees, an increase in funds collected on behalf of investors in our residential mortgage loans and on behalf of our borrowers, related to mortgage banking services, as well as decreases in income tax payments and cash paid for benefits, claims and settlement expenses. Net cash used in investing activities was $2,548.3 million, $4,078.1 million and $3,738.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The decrease in cash used in 2003 for investing activities compared to 2002 is due to an increase in net cash received from mortgage loans and available for sale securities activity. Offsetting this was a reduction of cash received from the sale of subsidiaries, due to the sale in 2002 of substantially all of BT Financial Group, as well as the sale of our shares of Coventry stock. The increase in cash used in 2002 compared to 2001 was primarily due to an increase during 2002 in the volume of net mortgage loans purchased and sold. Also contributing to the increase in cash used was the decline in real estate sales from the prior year. Offsetting these increases in cash used was the sale of substantially all of BT Financial Group, as well as the sale of our shares of Coventry stock. Net cash used in financing activities was $511.2 million, $824.1 million and $404.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively. The decrease in cash used in financing activities was primarily due to an increase in investment contract deposits, net of withdrawals, an increase in bank deposits as well as a reduced amount of cash paid for the repurchase of shares of our common stock, compared to the prior year. Partially offsetting the decreases was an increase in repayment of short term debt, resulting from PRMCR which was consolidated in 2003 due to FIN 46, and an increase in the dividend payment to shareholders. The increase in net cash used in 2002 compared to 2001 is primarily from the non recurrence of the impact from the prior years IPO, in addition to the repurchase of shares of our common stock and payments of dividends in 2002. Partially offsetting the increases in cash used was an increase in investment contract deposits, net of withdrawals. Given the historical cash flow of our subsidiaries and the financial results of these subsidiaries, we believe the cash flow from our consolidated operating activities over the next year will provide sufficient liquidity for our operations, as well as satisfy interest payments and any payments related to debt servicing. RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES The ratio of earnings to fixed charges is a measure of our ability to cover fixed costs with current period earnings. A high ratio indicates that earnings are sufficiently covering committed expenses. The following table sets forth, for the years indicated, our ratios of: o earnings to fixed charges before interest credited on investment products; and o earnings to fixed charges. We calculate the ratio of "earnings to fixed charges before interest credited on investment products" by dividing the sum of income from continuing operations before income taxes (BT), interest expense (I), interest factor of rental expense (IF) less undistributed income from equity investees (E) by the sum of interest expense (I), interest factor of rental expense (IF) and dividends on majority owned subsidiary redeemable preferred securities (non intercompany) (D). The formula for this ratio is: (BT+I+IF E)/(I+IF+D). 71 We calculate the ratio of "earnings to fixed charges" by dividing the sum of income from continuing operations before income taxes (BT), interest expense (I), interest factor of rental expense (IF) less undistributed income from equity investees (E) and the addition of interest credited on investment products (IC) by interest expense (I), interest factor of rental expense (IF), dividends on majority owned subsidiary redeemable preferred securities (non intercompany) (D) and interest credited on investment products (IC). The formula for this calculation is: (BT+I+IF E+IC)/(I+IF+D+IC). "Interest credited on investment products" includes interest paid on guaranteed investment contracts, funding agreements and other investment only pension products. Similar to debt, these products have a total fixed return and a fixed maturity date. FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 2002 2001 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges before interest credited on investment products.................. 9.5 7.2 5.2 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges................. 2.1 1.8 1.5 CONTRACTUAL OBLIGATIONS AND COMMERCIAL COMMITMENTS The following table presents payments due by period for long term contractual obligations as of December 31, 2003: AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2003 LESS INDETER CONTRACTUAL THAN 1 1 3 4 5 AFTER 5 MINATE OBLIGATIONS TOTAL YEAR YEARS YEARS YEARS MATURITY (IN MILLIONS) Long term debt(1)......... $ 2,767.3 $ 779.4 $ 1,045.7 $ 174.4 $ 767.8 $ Long term debt interest............... 532.9 134.5 227.2 143.2 28.0 Operating leases(2)....... 168.8 47.7 62.1 26.8 32.2 GICs and funding agreements(3) ......... 28,902.5 4,679.3 8,020.5 5,156.2 7,716.0 3,330.5 Certificates of Deposit .. 699.7 328.7 249.9 32.5 88.6 Purchase obligations(4)... 212.8 169.7 37.4 5.7 Other long term liabilities(5)......... 1,346.1 182.6 1,163.5 Total contractual obligations......... $ 34,630.1 $ 6,139.3 $ 9,642.8 $ 5,538.8 $ 8,815.2 $ 4,494.0 (1) The following are included in long term debt: At December 31, 2003, PRMCR had a $1.8 billion credit facility for long term debt, of which $1.4 billion of long term debt was outstanding ($1,200.0 million in medium term notes and $193.0 million in equity certificates). In 2001, $1,600.0 million in medium term notes were issued under this facility of which $1,200.0 million was classified as long term debt on our consolidated statement of financial position as of December 31, 2003. The remaining $400.0 million in medium term notes were classified as short term debt at the time of consolidation in July 2003 due to the maturity date ending in less than twelve months. Maturities for the long term portion are three years for $400.0 million and five years for $800.0 million. The three year medium term notes have a fixed rate. The five year medium term notes pay interest based on LIBOR plus a spread. The weighted average interest rate on the medium term notes classified as long term debt was 2.46% at December 31, 2003. Equity certificates were issued in 2000 and 2001, of which $193.0 million remains as outstanding 72 long term debt as of December 31, 2003. The equity certificates have a five year maturity and pay interest based on LIBOR plus a spread. The weighted average interest rate on the equity certificates was 2.86% at December 31, 2003. All PRMCR borrowings are collateralized by the assets of PRMCR. On August 25, 1999, we issued $665.0 million of unsecured redeemable long term debt ($200.0 million of 7.95% notes due August 15, 2004, and $465.0 million in 8.2% notes due August 15, 2009). Interest on the notes is payable semiannually on February 15 and August 15 of each year, commencing February 15, 2000. We used the net proceeds from the notes to partially fund the purchase of the outstanding stock of several companies affiliated with Bankers Trust Australia Group. The long term debt resides in our wholly owned subsidiary, PFSI. On March 10, 1994, Principal Life issued $300.0 million of surplus notes, including $200.0 million due March 1, 2024, at a 7.875% annual interest rate and the remaining $100.0 million due March 1, 2044, at an 8% annual interest rate. No affiliates of ours hold any portion of the notes. Each payment of interest and principal on the notes, however, may be made only with the prior approval of the Commissioner and only to the extent that Principal Life has sufficient surplus earnings to make such payments. For each of the years ended December 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001, interest of $23.8 million was approved by the Commissioner, paid and charged to expense. Subject to Commissioner approval, the surplus notes due March 1, 2024, may be redeemed at Principal Lifes election on or after March 1, 2004, in whole or in part at a redemption price of approximately 103.6% of par. We have elected, and have received approval, to redeem on March 1, 2004 the entire outstanding $200.0 million principal amount of surplus notes at a redemption price of 103.6% plus accrued interest to March 1, 2004. In addition, subject to Commissioner approval, the notes due March 1, 2044, may be redeemed at Principal Lifes election on or after March 1, 2014, in whole or in part at a redemption price of approximately 102.3% of par. The approximate 2.3% premium is scheduled to gradually diminish over the following ten years. These notes may be redeemed on or after March 1, 2024, at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount plus interest accrued to the date of redemption. Long term debt also includes mortgages and other notes payable related to real estate developments. Along with certain subsidiaries, we had $192.5 million in credit facilities with various financial institutions, in addition to obtaining loans with various lenders to finance real estate developments. Outstanding principal balances as of December 31, 2003, range from $0.4 million to $99.9 million per development with interest rates generally ranging from 6.0% to 8.6%. Outstanding principal balances as of December 31, 2002, range from $0.2 million to $100.9 million per development with interest rates generally ranging from 6.0% to 8.6%. Outstanding debt is secured by the underlying real estate properties, which were reported as real estate on our consolidated statements of financial position with a carrying value of $319.2 million and $260.4 million as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, respectively. (2) As a lessee, we lease office space, data processing equipment and office furniture and equipment under various operating leases. (3) Includes GICs, funding agreements (described below), individual fixed annuities, universal life insurance, and other investment type contracts. Our guaranteed investment contracts and funding agreements contain provisions limiting early surrenders, including penalties for early surrenders and minimum notice requirements. Put provisions give customers the option to terminate a contract prior to maturity, provided they give a minimum notice period. We no longer issue puttable GICs. Funding agreements include those issued domestically directly to nonqualified institutional investors, as well as to three separate programs where the funding agreements are, or will be, issued directly or indirectly 73 to unconsolidated special purpose entities. Claims for principal and interest under funding agreements are afforded equal priority to claims of life insurance and annuity policyholders under insolvency provisions of Iowa Insurance Laws. We are authorized to issue up to $4.0 billion of funding agreements under a program to support the prospective issuance of medium term notes by an unaffiliated entity in non U.S. markets. Due to our adoption of FIN 46 in July 2003, we are no longer required to consolidate this program. As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, $3,618.7 million and $3,583.5 million, respectively, are outstanding under this program. In addition, we are authorized to issue up to $7.0 billion of funding agreements under another program to support the prospective issuance of medium term notes by an unaffiliated entity in both domestic and international markets. The $7.0 billion represents a $3.0 billion increase over the authorization amount we had at the end of 2002. The unaffiliated entity is an unconsolidated QSPE. As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, $5,613.4 million and $2,555.0 million, respectively, are outstanding under this program. Principal Life and we have filed a registration statement for a $4.0 billion retail medium term note program with the SEC, under which newly established separate and distinct trusts will issue nonrecourse medium term notes to institutional and retail investors. Under the program, the proceeds of each note issuance will be used to purchase a funding agreement from Principal Life, which will be used to secure that particular series of notes. The payment terms of any particular series of notes will match the payment terms of the funding agreement that secures that series. Principal Lifes payment obligations under the funding agreement relating to the applicable series of notes will be fully and unconditionally guaranteed by a guarantee issued by us. As of December 31, 2003 and 2002, there were no issued or outstanding notes under this program. (4) Purchase obligations include material contracts where we have a non cancelable commitment to purchase goods and services. (5) Other long term liabilities include other balance sheet liabilities that are contractual, non cancelable and long term in nature. CONTRACTUAL COMMITMENTS In connection with our banking business, we make commitments to extend credit, which are agreements to lend to a customer as long as there is no violation of any conditions established in the contract. Commitments generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses and may require payment of a fee. Since many of the commitments are expected to expire without being drawn upon, the total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future cash requirements. We evaluate each customers creditworthiness on a case by case basis. The total commitments to fund loans were $113.0 million as of December 31, 2003. We also have commitments to originate mortgage loans. These commitments amounted to $3.4 billion as of December 31, 2003. 74 SHORT TERM DEBT The components of short term debt as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, are as follows: AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2003 2002 (IN MILLIONS) PRMCR secured liquidity notes................ $ 215.0 $ PRMCR fixed term notes....................... 400.0 Mortgage servicing rights financing.......... 300.0 Commercial paper............................. 399.8 157.5 Other recourse short term debt............... 27.0 38.6 Non recourse short term debt................. 276.0 368.7 Total short term debt..................... $ 1,617.8 $ 564.8 As of December 31, 2003, we had credit facilities with various financial institutions in an aggregate amount of $4.2 billion, which consisted of a $2.2 billion PRMCR credit facility and $2.0 billion in other credit facilities. We consolidated PRMCR in July 2003 as a result of adopting FIN 46. PRMCR can use the $2.2 billion credit facility to issue short term debt. As of December 31, 2003, PRMCR had $215.0 million of short term secured liquidity notes outstanding under this facility. All borrowings are collateralized by the assets of PRMCR. Of our other remaining credit facilities, as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, we had $1.0 billion and $564.8 million of outstanding borrowings from these credit facilities, with $1.0 billion and $459.5 million of assets pledged as support, respectively. Assets pledged consisted primarily of mortgage servicing rights, commercial mortgages and securities. Our credit facilities include a $600.0 million back stop facility to provide 100% support for our commercial paper program, of which there were no outstanding balances as of December 31, 2003 and 2002. PRMCRs $400.0 million outstanding short term debt in fixed term notes as of December 31, 2003, was originally issued under a separate credit facility for long term borrowings. Due to the maturity date of less than twelve months at the time on consolidation in July 2003, the fixed term notes were classified as short term debt. See the long term debt discussion under "Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments" for further discussion. The weighted average interest rates on short term borrowings as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, were 2.9% and 1.8%, respectively. Excluding PRMCR, the weighted average interest rates on short term borrowings as of December 31, 2003 was 1.6%. OFF BALANCE SHEET ARRANGEMENTS The FASB issued FIN 46 in January 2003. FIN 46 established new accounting guidance relating to the consolidation of VIEs. The guidance was effective immediately for all VIEs created after January 31, 2003, and effective July 1, 2003, for all VIEs created before February 1, 2003. In October 2003, the FASB released Staff Position FIN 46 6, EFFECTIVE DATE OF FASB INTERPRETATION NO. 46, CONSOLIDATION OF VARIABLE INTEREST ENTITIES, that allows the deferral of FIN 46 for all VIEs created or acquired prior to February 1, 2003, until the end of the first interim or annual period ending after December 15, 2003, if certain conditions are met. We invested in one VIE in April 2003, and, effective July 1, 2003, consolidated VIEs created or acquired prior to February 1, 2003, for which we are the primary beneficiary. As a result, we have consolidated PRMCR, which previously had provided an off balance sheet source of funding for our residential mortgage loan production. DELINQUENT RESIDENTIAL MORTGAGE LOAN FUNDING In October 2000, our mortgage banking segment created a wholly owned, special purpose entity, Principal Residential Mortgage Funding, LLC ("PRMF"), to provide an off balance sheet source of funding for up to $250.0 million of qualifying 75 delinquent mortgage loans. The limit was increased to $550.0 million in December 2002 and to $1.05 billion in August 2003. We sell qualifying delinquent FHA and VA mortgage loans to PRMF which then transfers the loans to Principal Residential Mortgage EBO Trust ("Trust"), an unaffiliated Delaware business trust and a QSPE. The Trust funds its acquisitions of mortgage loans by selling participation certificates, representing an undivided interest in the Trust, to commercial paper conduit purchasers, who are not affiliated with us or any of our affiliates, directors or officers. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, the Trust held $653.4 million and $405.1 million in mortgage loans, respectively, and had outstanding participation certificates of $618.4 million and $382.8 million, respectively. Residential mortgage loans typically remain in the Trust until they are processed through the foreclosure claim process, are paid off or reinstate. Mortgage loans that reinstate are no longer eligible to remain in the Trust and are required to be removed at fair market value at the monthly settlement date following reinstatement. We are retained as the servicer of the mortgage loans and also perform accounting and various administrative functions on behalf of PRMF, in our capacity as the managing member of PRMF. As the servicer, we receive a servicing fee pursuant to the pooling and servicing agreement. We may also receive a successful servicing fee only after all other conditions in the monthly cash flow distribution are met. We received $34.7 million and $23.4 million in servicing and successful servicing fees from PRMF in 2003 and 2002, respectively. At December 31, 2003 and 2002, our estimated residual interest in such cash flows was $50.9 million and $32.7 million, respectively, and was recorded in other assets on the consolidated statements of financial position. The value of the residual interest was estimated based on the net present value of expected cash flows from PRMF. We are required to advance funds for payment of interest on the participation certificates and other carrying costs, if sufficient cash is not available in the trust collection account to meet this obligation. We and the Trust are parties to a cost of funds hedge agreement. We pay the weighted average cost of funds on the participation certificates plus fees and expenses and receive weighted average coupon of mortgage loans in the Trust less a spread. GUARANTEES AND INDEMNIFICATIONS In the normal course of business, we have provided guarantees to third parties primarily related to a former subsidiary, joint ventures and industrial revenue bonds. These agreements generally expire from 2004 through 2019. The maximum exposure under these agreements as of December 31, 2003, was approximately $190.0 million; however, we believe the likelihood is remote that material payments will be required and therefore have not accrued for a liability on our consolidated statements of financial position. Should we be required to perform under these guarantees, we generally could recover a portion of the loss from third parties through recourse provisions included in agreements with such parties, the sale of assets held as collateral that can be liquidated in the event that performance is required under the guarantees or other recourse generally available to us, minimizing the impact to net income. The fair value of such guarantees issued after January 1, 2003, was insignificant. In connection with the 2002 sale of BT Financial Group, we agreed to indemnify the purchaser, Westpac, for among other things, the costs associated with potential late filings made by BT Financial Group in New Zealand prior to Westpacs ownership, up to a maximum of A$250.0 million Australian dollars (approximately U.S. $190.0 million as of December 31, 2003). New Zealand securities regulations allow Australian issuers to issue their securities in New Zealand provided that certain documents are appropriately filed with the New Zealand Registrar of Companies. Specifically, the regulations require that any amendments to constitutions and compliance plans be filed in New Zealand. In April 2003, the New Zealand Securities Commission ("the Commission") opined that such late filings would result in certain New Zealand investors having a right to return of their investment plus interest at 10% per annum from the date of investment. Consequently, the Commission has advised that it has initiated an inquiry into the matter, both with regard to BT Financial Group and other similar issuers. We view these potential late filings as a technical matter as we believe investors received the information that is required to be provided 76 directly to them. In addition, we believe this technical issue may affect many in the industry and result in a favorable legislative or judicial solution. A relevant legislative solution and judicial action are both pending in New Zealand. Although we cannot predict the outcome of this matter or reasonably estimate losses, we do not believe that it would result in a material adverse effect on our business or financial position. It is possible, however, that it could have a material adverse effect on net income in a particular quarter or annual period. In the normal course of business, we are subject to indemnification obligations related to the sale of residential mortgage loans. Under these indemnifications, we are required to repurchase certain mortgage loans that fail to meet the standard representations and warranties included in the sales contracts. The amount of our exposure is based on the potential loss that may be incurred if the repurchased mortgage loans are processed through the foreclosure process. Based on historical experience, total mortgage loans repurchased pursuant to these indemnification obligations are estimated to be approximately 0.04% of annual mortgage loan production levels. Total losses on the mortgage loans repurchased are estimated to approximate 25% of the unpaid principal balance of the related mortgage loans. As of December 31, 2003, $5.9 million has been accrued for representing the fair value of such indemnifications issued after January 1, 2003, in accordance with FASBs Interpretation No. 45, GUARANTORS ACCOUNTING AND DISCLOSURE REQUIREMENTS FOR GUARANTEES, INCLUDING INDIRECT GUARANTEES OF INDEBTEDNESS OF OTHERS. We are also subject to various other indemnification obligations issued in conjunction with certain transactions, primarily the sale of BT Financial Group and other divestitures, the sale of servicing rights in our mortgage banking business, acquisitions and financing transactions whose terms range in duration and often are not explicitly defined. Certain portions of these indemnifications may be capped, while other portions are not subject to such limitations. Generally, a maximum obligation is not explicitly stated; therefore, the overall maximum amount of the obligation under the indemnifications cannot be reasonably estimated. While we are unable to estimate with certainty the ultimate legal and financial liability with respect to these indemnifications, we believe the likelihood is remote that material payments would be required under such indemnifications and therefore such indemnifications would not result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or net income. The fair value of such indemnifications issued after January 1, 2003, was insignificant. INVESTMENTS We had total consolidated assets as of December 31, 2003, of $107.8 billion, of which $55.6 billion were invested assets. The rest of our total consolidated assets are comprised primarily of separate account assets for which we do not bear investment risk. Because we generally do not bear any investment risk on assets held in separate accounts, the discussion and financial information below does not include such assets. Of our invested assets, $53.6 billion were held by our U.S. operations and the remaining $2.0 billion were held by our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment. U.S. INVESTMENT OPERATIONS Our U.S. invested assets are managed by Principal Global Investors, a subsidiary of Principal Life. Our primary investment objective is to maximize after tax returns consistent with acceptable risk parameters. We seek to protect policyholders benefits by optimizing the risk/return relationship on an ongoing basis, through asset/liability matching, reducing the credit risk, avoiding high levels of investments that may be redeemed by the issuer, maintaining sufficiently liquid investments and avoiding undue asset concentrations through diversification. We are exposed to three primary sources of investment risk: o credit risk, relating to the uncertainty associated with the continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments of principal and interest; o interest rate risk, relating to the market price and or cash flow variability associated with changes in market yield curves; and o equity risk, relating to adverse fluctuations in a particular common stock. 77 Our ability to manage credit risk is essential to our business and our profitability. We devote considerable resources to the credit analysis of each new investment. We manage credit risk through industry, issuer and asset class diversification. Our Investment Committee, appointed by our board of directors, is responsible for establishing all investment policies, reviewing and approving all investments. As of December 31, 2003, there are nine members on the Investment Committee, one of whom is a member of our board of directors. The remaining members are senior management members representing various areas of our company. We also seek to reduce call or prepayment risk arising from changes in interest rates in individual investments. We limit our exposure to investments that are prepayable without penalty prior to maturity at the option of the issuer, and we require additional yield on these investments to compensate for the risk that the issuer will exercise such option. We assess option risk in all investments we make and, when we take that risk, we price for it accordingly. Our Fixed Income Securities Committee, consisting of fixed income securities senior management members, approves the credit rating for the fixed maturity securities we purchase. Teams of security analysts organized by industry focus either on the public or private markets and analyze and monitor these investments. In addition, we have teams who specialize in residential mortgage backed securities, commercial mortgage backed securities and public below investment grade securities. We establish a credit reviewed list of approved public issuers to provide an efficient way for our portfolio managers to purchase liquid bonds for which credit review has already been completed. Issuers remain on the list for one year unless removed by our analysts. Our analysts monitor issuers on the list on a continuous basis with a formal review documented annually or more frequently if material events affect the issuer. The analysis includes both fundamental and technical factors. The fundamental analysis encompasses both quantitative and qualitative analysis of the issuer. The qualitative analysis includes an assessment of both accounting and management aggressiveness. In addition, technical indicators such as stock price volatility and credit default swap levels are monitored. Our Fixed Income Securities Committee also reviews private transactions on a continuous basis to assess the quality ratings of our privately placed investments. We regularly review our investments to determine whether we should re rate them, employing the following criteria: o material declines in the issuers revenues or margins; o significant management or organizational changes; o significant uncertainty regarding the issuers industry; o debt service coverage or cash flow ratios that fall below industry specific thresholds; o violation of financial covenants; and o other business factors that relate to the issuer. A dedicated risk management team is responsible for centralized monitoring of the commercial mortgage portfolio. We apply a variety of strategies to minimize credit risk in our commercial mortgage loan portfolio. When considering the origination of new commercial mortgage loans, we review the cash flow fundamentals of the property, make a physical assessment of the underlying security, conduct a comprehensive market analysis and compare against industry lending practices. We use a proprietary risk rating model to evaluate all new and a majority of existing loans within the portfolio. The proprietary risk model is designed to stress projected cash flows under simulated economic and market downturns. Our lending guidelines are designed to encourage 75% or less loan to value ratios and a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.2 times. We analyze investments outside of these guidelines based on cash flow quality, tenancy and other factors. The weighted average loan to value ratio at origination for brick and mortar commercial mortgages in our portfolio was 67% 78 and the debt service coverage ratio at loan inception was 2.5 times as of December 31, 2003. We have limited exposure to equity risk in our common stock portfolio. Equity securities accounted for only 1% of our U.S. invested assets as of December 31, 2003. Our investment decisions and objectives are a function of the underlying risks and product profiles of each primary business operation. In addition, we diversify our product portfolio offerings to include products that contain features that will protect us against fluctuations in interest rates. Those features include adjustable crediting rates, policy surrender charges and market value adjustments on liquidations. For further information on our management of interest rate risk, see Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk". OVERALL COMPOSITION OF U.S. INVESTED ASSETS U.S. invested assets as of December 31, 2003, were predominantly of high quality and broadly diversified across asset class, individual credit, industry and geographic location. Asset allocation is determined based on cash flow and the risk/return requirements of our products. As shown in the following table, the major categories of U.S. invested assets are fixed maturity securities and commercial mortgages. The remainder is invested in real estate, equity securities and other assets. In addition, policy loans are included in our invested assets. The following discussion analyzes the composition of U.S. invested assets, but excludes invested assets of the participating separate accounts. U.S. INVESTED ASSETS AS OF DECEMBER 31, AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2003 2002 CARRYING % OF CARRYING % OF AMOUNT TOTAL AMOUNT TOTAL ($ IN MILLIONS) Fixed maturity securities Public......................................... $ 24,785.0 46% $ 22,766.8 48% Private........................................ 11,343.0 21 10,440.3 22 Equity securities................................. 670.7 1 358.1 1 Mortgage loans Commercial .................................... 9,630.4 18 9,365.8 20 Residential (1)................................ 3,544.6 7 1,463.6 3 Real estate held for sale ........................ 524.4 1 179.5 Real estate held for investment................... 1,003.6 2 1,042.1 2 Policy loans...................................... 804.1 2 818.5 2 Other investments ................................ 1,249.7 2 1,075.5 2 Total invested assets.......................... 53,555.5 100% 47,510.2 100% Cash and cash equivalents......................... 1,619.8 941.5 Total invested assets and cash ................ $ 55,175.3 $ 48,451.7 (1) As a result of our implementation of FIN 46, effective July 1, 2003, residential mortgage loans include the full consolidation of PRMCR, which provides a source of funding for our residential mortgage loan production. PRMCR held $2.0 billion in mortgage loans held for sale as of December 31, 2003. We actively manage public fixed maturity securities, including our portfolio of residential mortgage backed securities, in order to provide liquidity and enhance yield and total return. Our residential mortgage backed securities are managed to reduce the risk of prepayment. This active management has resulted in the realization of capital gains and losses with respect to such investments. 79 U.S. INVESTMENT RESULTS The following tables present the yield and investment income, excluding net realized/unrealized gains and losses for our U.S. invested assets. The annualized yield on U.S. invested assets and on cash and cash equivalents was 6.3% for the year ended December 31, 2003, compared to 6.9% for the year ended December 31, 2002. We calculate annualized yields using a simple average of asset classes at the beginning and end of the reporting period. During 2002, certain seed money investments were reclassified from equity securities to other investments. During 2003, residential mortgage loans increased significantly due to our implementation of FIN 46. The asset changes impact the annualized yields by asset class. U.S. INVESTED ASSETS INVESTMENT INCOME YIELDS BY ASSET TYPE FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 2002 YIELD AMOUNT YIELD AMOUNT ($ IN MILLIONS) Fixed maturity securities............. 6.3% $ 2,191.7 6.8% $ 2,122.9 Equity securities..................... 8.8 45.4 4.7 27.4 Mortgage loans Commercial........... 7.6 722.9 7.6 721.5 Mortgage loans Residential.......... 6.8 169.4 5.5 71.2 Real Estate........................... 6.6 91.0 7.1 85.2 Policy loans.......................... 6.7 54.5 7.0 57.6 Cash and cash equivalents............. 1.2 15.0 2.3 16.5 Other investments..................... 12.5 145.7 18.5 161.0 Total before investment expenses.... 6.6 3,435.6 7.1 3,263.3 Investment expenses................... 0.3 155.7 0.2 98.2 Net investment income............... 6.3% $ 3,279.9 6.9% $ 3,165.1 FIXED MATURITY SECURITIES Fixed maturity securities consist of short term investments, publicly traded debt securities, privately placed debt securities and redeemable preferred stock, and represented 67% of total U.S. invested assets as of December 31, 2003 and 70% as of December 31, 2002. The fixed maturity securities portfolio was comprised, based on carrying amount, of 69% in publicly traded fixed maturity securities and 31% in privately placed fixed maturity securities as of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, respectively. Included in the privately placed category as of December 31, 2003, were $4.3 billion of securities eligible for resale to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933. Fixed maturity securities were diversified by category of issuer as of December 31, 2003, and December 31, 2002, as shown in the following table: 80 U.S. INVESTED ASSETS FIXED MATURITY SECURITIES BY TYPE OF ISSUER AS OF DECEMBER 31, AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2003 2002 CARRYING % OF CARRYING % OF AMOUNT TOTAL AMOUNT TOTAL ($ IN MILLIONS) U.S. Government and agencies........................... $ 610.9 2% $ 518.6 2% States and political subdivisions...................... 537.0 1 426.3 1 Non U.S. governments................................... 422.4 1 380.5 1 Corporate public..................................... 18,033.4 50 17,061.2 52 Corporate private.................................... 9,693.1 27 8,777.5 26 Residential pass through securities.................... 2,070.3 6 2,372.0 7 Commercial MBS......................................... 2,917.4 8 2,476.4 7 Collateral mortgage obligations........................ 294.6 1 Asset backed securities................................ 1,548.9 4 1,239.6 4 Total fixed maturities............................. $36,128.0 100% $33,207.1 100% We held $6,831.2 million of mortgage backed and asset backed securities as of December 31, 2003, and $6,043.0 million as of December 31, 2002. We believe that it is desirable to hold residential mortgage backed securities due to their credit quality and liquidity as well as portfolio diversification characteristics. Our portfolio is comprised of GNMA, FNMA and FHLMC pass through securities and is actively managed to reduce the risk of prepayment. Commercial mortgage backed securities provide high levels of credit protection, diversification, reduced event risk and enhanced liquidity. Commercial mortgage backed securities are predominantly comprised of rated large pool securitizations that are individually and collectively diverse by property type, borrower and geographic dispersion. We purchase asset backed securities, ("ABS"), to diversify the overall credit risks of the fixed maturity securities portfolio and to provide attractive returns. The principal risks in holding asset backed securities are structural and credit risks. Structural risks include the securitys priority in the issuers capital structure, the adequacy of and ability to realize proceeds from the collateral and the potential for prepayments. Credit risks involve issuer/servicer risk where collateral values can become impaired in the event of servicer credit deterioration. Our ABS portfolio is diversified both by type of asset and by issuer. We actively monitor holdings of asset backed securities to ensure that the risk profile of each security improves or remains consistent. If we are not receiving an adequate yield for the risk, relative to other investment opportunities, we will attempt to sell the security. Prepayments in the ABS portfolio are, in general, insensitive to changes in interest rates or are insulated to such changes by call protection features. In the event that we are subject to prepayment risk, we monitor the factors that impact the level of prepayment and prepayment speed for those asset backed securities. To the extent we believe that prepayment risk increases, we may attempt to sell the security and reinvest in another security that offers better yield relative to the risk. In addition, we diversify the risks of asset backed securities by holding a diverse class of securities, which limits our exposure to any one security. The international exposure in our U.S. fixed maturity securities totaled $4,963.8 million, or 14%, as of December 31, 2003, comprised of corporate and foreign government fixed maturity securities. Of the $4,963.8 million as of December 31, 2003, investments totaled $1,376.2 million in the United Kingdom, $1,242.2 million in the continental European Union, $528.2 million in Asia, $424.2 million in South America, $409.8 million in Australia and $16.1 million in Japan. The remaining $967.1 million is invested in 12 other countries. All international fixed maturity securities held by our U.S. operations are either denominated in U.S. dollars or have been swapped into U.S. dollar equivalents. 81 Our international investments are analyzed internally by country and industry credit investment professionals. We control concentrations using issuer and country level exposure benchmarks, which are based on the credit quality of the issuer and the country. Our investment policy limits total international fixed maturity securities investments to 18% of total statutory general account assets with a 4% limit in emerging markets. Exposure to Canada is not included in our international exposure due to its treatment by the NAIC. As of December 31, 2003, our investments in Canada totaled $1,325.2 million. As of December 31, 2003, our top ten corporate bond exposures were rated an "A" equivalent or better by the rating agencies and represented $2,828.1 million, or 8% of our fixed maturity securities portfolio and 5% of total U.S. invested assets. As of December 31, 2003, no individual non government issuer represented more than 1% of U.S. invested assets. Valuation techniques for the fixed maturity securities portfolio vary by security type and the availability of market data. Pricing models and their underlying assumptions impact the amount and timing of unrealized gains and losses recognized, and the use of different pricing models or assumptions could produce different financial results. Interactive Data Corporation ("IDC") or direct broker quotes are our sources for external prices for our public bonds and those private placement securities that are actively traded in the secondary market. In cases where quoted market prices are not available, a spread pricing matrix is used. When utilizing a spread pricing matrix, securities are valued through a discounted cash flow method where each bond is assigned a credit and liquidity spread, which is added to the current U.S. Treasury rate to discount the cash flows of the security. Our spread pricing matrix uses the OTR Treasury curve, which is pulled from Bloomberg as of the valuation date. Capital Management Science ("CMS") has been contracted to serve as an independent source of credit spreads to be used in the corporate private placement valuation process. The credit spreads are based on weekly studies of the public bond market and vary by industry, credit quality and average investment life. The liquidity spread is based on the average yield pick up a private placement can expect to earn over a comparable public bond because of illiquidity. The spreads assigned to each security change from month to month based on changes in the market. Certain market events that could impact the valuation of securities include issuer credit ratings, business climate, management changes, litigation, and government actions among others. The resulting prices are then reviewed by pricing analysts. All loans placed on the watchlist are valued individually by the investment analysts or the Workout group. Although we believe our estimates reasonably reflect the fair value of those securities, the key assumptions about risk premiums, performance of underlying collateral (if any) and other factors involve significant assumptions and may not reflect those of an active market. To the extent that bonds have longer maturity dates, managements estimate of fair value may involve greater subjectivity since they involve judgment about events well into the future. Every month, there is a comprehensive review of all impaired securities and problem loans by a group consisting of the Chief Investment Officer, the Portfolio Managers, and the Workout Group. The valuation of impaired bonds for which there is no quoted price is typically based on the present value of the future cash flows expected to be received. If the company is likely to continue operations, the estimate of future cash flows is typically based on the expected operating cash flows of the company that are available to make payments of the bonds. If the company is likely to liquidate, the estimate of future cash flows is based on an estimate of the liquidation value of its net assets. The Securities Valuation Office ("SVO") of the NAIC evaluates most of the fixed maturity securities that we and other U.S. insurance companies hold. The SVO evaluates the bond investments of insurers for regulatory reporting purposes and assigns securities to one of six investment categories. The NAIC Designations closely mirror the nationally recognized securities rating organizations credit ratings for marketable bonds. NAIC Designations 1 and 2 include bonds considered investment grade by such rating organizations. Bonds are considered investment grade when rated "Baa3" or higher by Moodys, or "BBB " or higher by Standard & Poors. NAIC Designations 3 through 6 are referred to as below investment grade. Bonds are considered below investment grade when rated "Ba1" or lower by Moodys, or "BB+" or lower by Standard & Poors. As of December 31, 2003, the percentage, based on estimated fair value, of total publicly traded and privately placed fixed maturity securities that were investment grade with an NAIC Designation 1 or 2 was 92%. 82 We also monitor the credit drift of our corporate fixed maturity securities portfolio. Credit drift is defined as the ratio of the percentage of rating downgrades, including defaults, divided by the percentage of rating upgrades. We measure credit drift once each fiscal year, assessing the changes in our internally developed credit ratings that have occurred during the year. Standard & Poors annual credit ratings drift ratio measures the credit rating change, within a specific year, of companies that have been assigned ratings by Standard & Poors. The annual internal credit drift ratio on corporate fixed maturity securities we held in our general account was 2.18 times compared to the Standard & Poors drift ratio of 2.47 times, as of December 31, 2003. The following table presents our total fixed maturity securities by NAIC Designation and the equivalent ratings of the nationally recognized securities rating organizations as of December 31, 2003, and December 31, 2002, as well as the percentage, based on estimated fair value, that each designation comprises: U.S. INVESTED ASSETS FIXED MATURITY SECURITIES BY CREDIT QUALITY AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2003 AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2002 % OF % OF RATING TOTAL TOTAL NAIC AGENCY AMORTIZED CARRYING CARRYING AMORTIZED CARRYING CARRYING RATING (1) EQUIVALENT COST AMOUNT AMOUNT COST AMOUNT AMOUNT ($ IN MILLIONS) 1 Aaa/Aa/A........... $ 17,299.2 $18,415.1 51% $15,377.5 $16,539.9 50% 2 Baa................ 13,579.3 14,657.1 41 12,921.8 13,657.4 41 3 Ba................. 1,998.0 2,123.1 6 2,168.8 2,080.8 6 4 B.................. 517.4 514.5 1 506.2 434.5 1 5 Caa and lower...... 230.9 225.4 1 215.6 162.5 1 6 In or near default. 220.7 192.8 371.0 332.0 1 Total fixed maturities..... $ 33,845.5 $36,128.0 100% $31,560.9 $33,207.1 100% (1) Includes 151 securities with an amortized cost of $1,469.2 million, gross gains of $39.1 million, gross losses of $20.7 million and a carrying amount of $1,487.6 million as of December 31, 2003, that are still pending a review and assignment of a rating by the SVO. Due to the timing of when fixed maturity securities are purchased, legal documents are filed, and the review by the SVO, there will always be securities in our portfolio that are unrated over a reporting period. In these instances, an equivalent rating is assigned based on our fixed income analysts assessment. We believe that our long term fixed maturity securities portfolio is well diversified among industry types and between publicly traded and privately placed securities. Each year we direct the majority of our net cash inflows into investment grade fixed maturity securities. Our current policy is to limit the percentage of cash flow invested in below investment grade assets to 7% of cash flow. As of December 31, 2003, we had invested 4% of new cash flow for the year in below investment grade assets. While the general account investment returns have improved due to the below investment grade asset class, we manage its growth strategically by limiting it to 10% of the total fixed maturity securities portfolios. We invest in privately placed fixed maturity securities to enhance the overall value of the portfolio, increase diversification and obtain higher yields than are possible with comparable quality public market securities. Generally, private placements provide broader access to management information, strengthened negotiated protective covenants, call protection features and, where applicable, a higher level of collateral. They are, however, generally not freely tradable because of restrictions imposed by federal and state securities laws and illiquid trading markets. 83 The following table shows the carrying amount of our corporate fixed maturity securities by Salomon industry category, as well as the percentage of the total corporate portfolio that each Salomon industry category comprises as of December 31, 2003, and December 31, 2002. U.S. INVESTED ASSETS CORPORATE FIXED MATURITY SECURITIES BY SALOMON INDUSTRY AS OF DECEMBER 31, AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2003 2002 CARRYING % OF CARRYING % OF AMOUNT TOTAL AMOUNT TOTAL ($ IN MILLIONS) INDUSTRY CLASS Finance Bank.......................... $ 3,041.9 11% $ 2,431.5 9% Finance Insurance..................... 1,718.1 6 1,006.8 4 Finance Other......................... 3,337.5 12 3,199.0 12 Industrial Consumer................... 879.4 3 958.2 4 Industrial Energy..................... 2,779.5 10 2,959.5 11 Industrial Manufacturing.............. 5,729.6 21 5,882.5 23 Industrial Other...................... 158.7 1 133.1 1 Industrial Service.................... 4,503.0 16 3,932.7 15 Industrial Transport.................. 967.8 4 1,058.9 4 Utility Electric...................... 2,751.2 10 2,539.4 10 Utility Other......................... 67.4 161.4 1 Utility Telecom....................... 1,792.4 6 1,575.7 6 Total............................... $ 27,726.5 100% $ 25,838.7 100% We monitor any decline in the credit quality of fixed maturity securities through the designation of "problem securities", "potential problem securities" and "restructured securities". We define problem securities in our fixed maturity portfolio as securities: (i) as to which principal and or interest payments are in default or where default is perceived to be imminent in the near term (ii) issued by a company that went into bankruptcy subsequent to the acquisition of such securities. We define potential problem securities in our fixed maturity portfolio as securities included on an internal "watch list" for which management has concerns as to the ability of the issuer to comply with the present debt payment terms and which may result in the security becoming a problem or being restructured. The decision whether to classify a performing fixed maturity security as a potential problem involves significant subjective judgments by our management as to the likely future industry conditions and developments with respect to the issuer. We define restructured securities in our fixed maturity portfolio as securities where a concession has been granted to the borrower related to the borrowers financial difficulties that would not have otherwise been considered. We determine that restructures should occur in those instances where greater economic value will be realized under the new terms than through liquidation or other disposition and may involve a change in contractual cash flows. If at the time of restructure, the present value of the new future cashflows is less than the current cost of the asset being restructured, a realized capital loss is recorded in net income and a new cost basis is established. We have a process in place to identify securities that could potentially have an impairment that is other than temporary. This process involves monitoring market events that could impact issuers credit ratings, business climate, management changes, litigation and government actions, and other similar factors. This process also involves monitoring late payments, pricing levels, downgrades by rating agencies, key financial ratios, financial statements, revenue forecasts and cash flow projections as indicators of credit issues Every month, a group of individuals including the Chief Investment Officer, our Portfolio Managers, members of our Workout Group, and representatives from Investment Accounting review all securities where market value is less than seventy five percent of amortized cost to determine whether impairments need to 84 be taken. The analysis focuses on each issuers ability to service its debts in a timely fashion and the length of time the security has been trading below cost. Formal documentation of the analysis and the companys decision is prepared and approved by management. We consider relevant facts and circumstances in evaluating whether the impairment of a security is other than temporary. Relevant facts and circumstances considered include: (1) the length of time the fair value has been below cost; (2) the financial position and access to capital of the issuer, including the current and future impact of any specific events; and (3) our ability and intent to hold the security to maturity or until it recovers in value. To the extent we determine that a security is deemed to be other than temporarily impaired, the difference between amortized cost and fair value would be charged to earnings. There are a number of significant risks and uncertainties inherent in the process of monitoring impairments and determining if an impairment is other than temporary. These risks and uncertainties include: (1) the risk that our assessment of an issuers ability to meet all of its contractual obligations will change based on changes in the credit characteristics of that issuer, (2) the risk that the economic outlook will be worse than expected or have more of an impact on the issuer than anticipated, (3) the risk that our investment professionals are making decisions based on fraudulent or misstated information in the financial statements provided by issuers and (4) the risk that new information obtained by us or changes in other facts and circumstances lead us to change our intent to hold the security to maturity or until it recovers in value. Any of these situations could result in a charge to earnings in a future period. The realized losses relating to other than temporary impairments were $152.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. Following is a summary of our material impairments taken as of the year ended December 31, 2003: o $30.7 million on private fixed maturity securities relating to an Italian dairy and bakery goods producer. The company filed the equivalent of Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection after disclosing massive fraud during December 2003. Prospects for recovery are still being evaluated as the bankruptcy is in the early phase of discovery and valuation assessment. o $26.9 million on private fixed maturity securities on an Australian mining company. The company filed for the equivalent of Chapter 11 in July 2003 due to persistently low metals prices, operational difficulties and unfavorable hedge positions. The sale of the companys assets are not expected to be sufficient to repay the senior debt resulting in a complete write off. o $14.4 million on private and public fixed maturity securities relating to a U.S. merchant power producer. This power producer filed Chapter 11 during July 2003. These impairments are based on publicly quoted prices for the public securities and estimated recovery values for the private securities. o $11.8 million on public fixed maturity securities secured by four electricity generating units totaling 1.370MW in the northeast U.S. Output from these plants was sold under long term contract to a financially troubled U.S. merchant power producer. These impairments are based on publicly quoted prices for the public securities. We also sold some of our position in this credit and recognized a realized loss on the sale of $5.9 million. o $10.2 million on private fixed maturity securities secured by energy assets and a related company guarantee. The related company filed Chapter 11 in 2001 after disclosing massive fraud. These impairments are based upon publicly quoted prices and estimated recovery values of the assets. o $9.3 million on private fixed maturity securities on an aircraft leased by a U.S. airline. Aircraft collateral values have declined with the financial weakness in the airline sector. We also sold some of our position in this credit and recognized a realized loss on the sale of $4.6 million. o $9.2 million on preferred securities issued by a corporation which provides services for the insurance retail and brokerage business. Impairment was necessary as the company reviews potential options including a 85 restructuring of its balance sheet, infusion of new priority capital or sale of the enterprise. The impairment value was determined through an analysis of enterprise value. o $8.5 million on private fixed maturity securities secured by credit card receivables. The receivables are being liquidated following the forced liquidation of the servicer. These impairments are based upon recovery values of the assets. o $7.4 million on private and public fixed maturity securities relating to a U.S. merchant power producer. This power producer experienced financial duress due to weak power prices, high natural gas prices and significant leverage. These impairments are based on publicly quoted prices for the public securities and estimated recovery values for the private securities. In July 2002, Worldcom Inc. filed a voluntary petition for Chapter 11 reorganization with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court. We recognized realized losses for other than temporary impairments during the second quarter of 2002. Our remaining investment in WorldCom Inc. is classified in our problem fixed maturity securities portfolio in the amount of $9.0 million as of December 31, 2003. For the year ended December 31, 2003, we realized $64.8 of losses upon disposal of bonds excluding hedging adjustments. Included in this $64.8 million is $18.3 million related to sales of credit impaired assets. The largest of these losses is $5.9 million related to a U.S. merchant power producer and $4.6 million related to an airline as referred to in the impairment discussion above. Also included within the $18.3 million of losses is a $3.3 million loss on the sale of our entire position in a Mexican mining company, and a $3.1 million loss on the sale of a U.S. petroleum industry services company that we had impaired in 2002. The Mexican issuer was under financial duress due to low commodity prices and liquidity concerns. The U.S. issuer filed Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection during June 2003, after taking large accounting write offs that precipitated a severe liquidity crisis. The remaining losses were incurred as part of our general portfolio repositioning activities. We generally intend to hold securities in unrealized loss positions until they mature or recover. However, we do sell bonds under certain circumstances such as when new information causes us to change our assessment of whether a bond will recover or perform according to its contractual terms, in response to external events (such as a merger or a downgrade) that result in investment guideline violations (such as single issuer or overall portfolio credit quality limits), in response to extreme catastrophic events (such as September 11, 2001) that result in industry or market wide disruption, or to take advantage of tender offers. Sales generate both gains and losses. The following tables present our fixed maturity securities available for sale by industry category and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses as of December 31, 2003, and December 31, 2002. 86 U.S. INVESTED ASSETS FIXED MATURITY SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE BY INDUSTRY CATEGORY AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2003 GROSS GROSS AMORTIZED UNREALIZED UNREALIZED CARRYING COST GAINS LOSSES (1) AMOUNT (IN MILLIONS) Finance Bank.......................... $ 2,870.2 $ 183.3 $ 11.6 $ 3,041.9 Finance Insurance..................... 1,635.1 95.3 12.3 1,718.1 Finance Other......................... 3,142.7 205.2 10.4 3,337.5 Industrial Consumer................... 848.5 56.8 25.9 879.4 Industrial Energy..................... 2,546.0 245.2 11.7 2,779.5 Industrial Manufacturing.............. 5,363.5 382.0 15.9 5,729.6 Industrial Other...................... 147.9 11.1 0.3 158.7 Industrial Service.................... 4,153.6 355.2 5.8 4,503.0 Industrial Transport.................. 914.2 74.6 21.0 967.8 Utility Electric...................... 2,581.4 179.1 9.3 2,751.2 Utility Other......................... 61.4 6.8 0.8 67.4 Utility Telecom....................... 1,623.2 170.5 1.3 1,792.4 Total corporate securities........... 25,887.7 1,965.1 126.3 27,726.5 U.S. Government and agencies............ 599.0 12.9 1.0 610.9 States and political subdivisions....... 498.7 40.5 2.2 537.0 Non U.S. governments.................... 358.2 64.2 422.4 Mortgage backed and other asset backed securities............... 6,406.9 343.5 22.1 6,728.3 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale............... $ 33,750.5 $ 2,426.2 $ 151.6 $ 36,025.1 (1) Included in the $151.6 million in unrealized losses is $24.8 million that relates to fixed maturity securities that are part of fair value hedging relationships and which have been recognized in net income versus other comprehensive income. 87 U.S. INVESTED ASSETS FIXED MATURITY SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE BY INDUSTRY CATEGORY AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2002 GROSS GROSS AMORTIZED UNREALIZED UNREALIZED CARRYING COST GAINS LOSSES (1) AMOUNT (IN MILLIONS) Finance Bank.......................... $ 2,303.1 $ 162.4 $ 34.0 $ 2,431.5 Finance Insurance..................... 955.9 55.1 4.2 1,006.8 Finance Other......................... 3,019.5 185.9 6.4 3,199.0 Industrial Consumer................... 903.8 59.3 4.9 958.2 Industrial Energy..................... 2,898.0 192.6 131.1 2,959.5 Industrial Manufacturing.............. 5,603.3 335.1 55.9 5,882.5 Industrial Other...................... 125.6 8.2 0.7 133.1 Industrial Service.................... 3,652.3 296.5 16.1 3,932.7 Industrial Transport.................. 1,049.3 70.0 60.4 1,058.9 Utility Electric...................... 2,556.2 107.1 123.9 2,539.4 Utility Other......................... 159.9 4.8 3.3 161.4 Utility Telecom....................... 1,472.8 129.7 26.8 1,575.7 Total corporate securities........... 24,699.7 1,606.7 467.7 25,838.7 U.S. Government and agencies............ 499.2 19.4 518.6 States and political subdivisions....... 399.2 33.0 5.9 426.3 Non U.S. governments.................... 329.9 53.7 3.1 380.5 Mortgage backed and other asset backed securities............... 5,535.9 419.9 14.5 5,941.3 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale................ $ 31,463.9 $ 2,132.7 $ 491.2 $ 33,105.4 The total unrealized losses on our fixed maturity securities available for sale were $151.6 million and $491.2 million as of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, respectively. Of the $151.6 million in gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2003, $1.6 million is attributed to securities scheduled to mature in one year or less, $24.3 million is attributed to securities scheduled to mature between one to five years, $48.9 million is attributed to securities scheduled to mature between five to ten years, $54.7 million is attributed to securities scheduled to mature after ten years, and $22.1 million is related to mortgage backed and other asset back securities. The gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2003 were concentrated primarily in the Industrial Consumer, Mortgage backed and other asset backed security, Industrial Transportation, and Industrial Manufacturing sectors. The gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2002 were concentrated primarily in the Industrial Energy, Utility Electric, Industrial Transportation, Industrial Manufacturing, and Finance Bank sectors. The following tables present our fixed maturity securities available for sale by investment grade and below investment grade and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses as of December 31, 2003, and December 31, 2002. 88 U.S. INVESTED ASSETS FIXED MATURITY SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE BY QUALITY AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2003 GROSS GROSS AMORTIZED UNREALIZED UNREALIZED CARRYING COST GAINS LOSSES AMOUNT (IN MILLIONS) Investment Grade: Public................................... $ 21,733.3 $ 1,590.6 $ 36.1 $ 23,287.8 Private.................................. 9,050.2 671.7 40.3 9,681.6 Below Investment Grade: Public................................... 1,407.6 102.1 12.4 1,497.3 Private.................................. 1,559.4 61.8 62.8 1,558.4 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale................................. $ 33,750.5 $ 2,426.2 $ 151.6 $ 36,025.1 U.S. INVESTED ASSETS FIXED MATURITY SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE BY QUALITY AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2002 GROSS GROSS AMORTIZED UNREALIZED UNREALIZED CARRYING COST GAINS LOSSES AMOUNT (IN MILLIONS) Investment Grade: Public................................... $ 19,981.5 $ 1,431.1 $ 70.8 $ 21,341.8 Private.................................. 8,220.8 606.6 73.6 8,753.8 Below Investment Grade: Public................................... 1,612.9 41.5 229.4 1,425.0 Private.................................. 1,648.7 53.5 117.4 1,584.8 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale....................... $ 31,463.9 $ 2,132.7 $ 491.2 $ 33,105.4 89 U.S. INVESTED ASSETS UNREALIZED LOSSES ON INVESTMENT GRADE FIXED MATURITY SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE BY AGING CATEGORY AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2003 PUBLIC PRIVATE TOTAL GROSS GROSS GROSS CARRYING UNREALIZED CARRYING UNREALIZED CARRYING UNREALIZED AMOUNT LOSSES AMOUNT LOSSES AMOUNT LOSSES (IN MILLIONS) Three months or less.................. $ 1,157.2 $ 7.2 $ 574.6 $14.2 $ 1,731.8 $ 21.4 Greater than three to six months...... 794.3 10.6 464.4 14.9 1,258.7 25.5 Greater than six to nine months....... 417.7 13.4 209.2 8.5 626.9 21.9 Greater than nine to twelve months.... 50.8 1.5 5.1 0.3 55.9 1.8 Greater than twelve to twenty four months............................. 19.1 2.1 19.1 2.1 Greater than twenty four to thirty six months......................... 21.0 2.4 21.0 2.4 Greater than thirty six months........ 25.1 1.0 27.3 0.3 52.4 1.3 Total fixed maturities, available for sale....................... $ 2,466.1 $ 36.1 $ 1,299.7 $40.3 $ 3,765.8 $ 76.4 U.S. INVESTED ASSETS UNREALIZED LOSSES ON INVESTMENT GRADE FIXED MATURITY SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE BY AGING CATEGORY AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2002 PUBLIC PRIVATE TOTAL GROSS GROSS GROSS CARRYING UNREALIZED CARRYING UNREALIZED CARRYING UNREALIZED AMOUNT LOSSES AMOUNT LOSSES AMOUNT LOSSES (IN MILLIONS) Three months or less.................. $ 695.4 $ 16.9 $ 345.7 $ 21.1 $1,041.1 $ 38.0 Greater than three to six months...... 242.2 13.0 225.8 14.2 468.0 27.2 Greater than six to nine months....... 188.6 11.5 149.2 12.6 337.8 24.1 Greater than nine to twelve months.... 174.9 6.1 105.7 2.1 280.6 8.2 Greater than twelve to twenty four months............................. 167.3 20.1 148.3 11.6 315.6 31.7 Greater than twenty four to thirty six months......................... 9.2 0.3 48.1 6.0 57.3 6.3 Greater than thirty six months........ 46.4 2.9 150.6 6.0 197.0 8.9 Total fixed maturities, available for sale....................... $ 1,524.0 $ 70.8 $1,173.4 $ 73.6 $2,697.4 $ 144.4 90 U.S. INVESTED ASSETS UNREALIZED LOSSES ON BELOW INVESTMENT GRADE FIXED MATURITY SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE BY AGING CATEGORY AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2003 PUBLIC PRIVATE TOTAL GROSS GROSS GROSS CARRYING UNREALIZED CARRYING UNREALIZED CARRYING UNREALIZED AMOUNT LOSSES AMOUNT LOSSES AMOUNT LOSSES (IN MILLIONS) Three months or less.................. $ 41.1 $ 0.6 $ 67.9 $ 28.8 $ 109.0 $29.4 Greater than three to six months...... 5.3 0.8 40.4 6.0 45.7 6.8 Greater than six to nine months....... 3.5 0.1 24.1 0.1 27.6 0.2 Greater than nine to twelve months.... 0.8 0.1 0.8 0.1 Greater than twelve to twenty four months............................. 26.9 0.8 68.6 9.1 95.5 9.9 Greater than twenty four to thirty six months......................... 64.2 8.8 62.6 8.2 126.8 17.0 Greater than thirty six months........ 9.1 1.3 78.6 10.5 87.7 11.8 Total fixed maturities, available for sale....................... $ 150.1 $ 12.4 $ 343.0 $ 62.8 $ 493.1 $75.2 U.S. INVESTED ASSETS UNREALIZED LOSSES ON BELOW INVESTMENT GRADE FIXED MATURITY SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE BY AGING CATEGORY AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2002 PUBLIC PRIVATE TOTAL GROSS GROSS GROSS CARRYING UNREALIZED CARRYING UNREALIZED CARRYING UNREALIZED AMOUNT LOSSES AMOUNT LOSSES AMOUNT LOSSES (IN MILLIONS) Three months or less.................. $ 149.9 $ 16.5 $ 123.1 $ 12.2 $ 273.0 $ 28.7 Greater than three to six months...... 93.3 22.6 121.1 12.6 214.4 35.2 Greater than six to nine months....... 135.6 33.1 124.0 19.3 259.6 52.4 Greater than nine to twelve months.... 129.1 39.1 129.1 39.1 Greater than twelve to twenty four months............................. 178.2 107.9 98.1 31.8 276.3 139.7 Greater than twenty four to thirty six months......................... 28.0 6.3 28.9 1.6 56.9 7.9 Greater than thirty six months........ 39.1 3.9 104.9 39.9 144.0 43.8 Total fixed maturities, available for sale....................... $ 753.2 $ 229.4 $ 600.1 $ 117.4 $ 1,353.3 $ 346.8 Of total gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, $76.4 million and $144.4 million were related to investment grade securities, respectively. Gross unrealized losses related to below investment grade securities were $75.2 million and $346.8 million as of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, respectively. 91 The following tables present the carrying amount and gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity securities available for sale, where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more as of December 31, 2003, and December 31, 2002. U.S. INVESTED ASSETS UNREALIZED LOSSES ON FIXED MATURITY SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE BY AGING CATEGORY AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2003 PROBLEM, POTENTIAL PROBLEM, AND ALL OTHER FIXED MATURITY RESTRUCTURED SECURITIES TOTAL GROSS GROSS GROSS CARRYING UNREALIZED CARRYING UNREALIZED CARRYING UNREALIZED AMOUNT LOSSES AMOUNT LOSSES AMOUNT LOSSES (IN MILLIONS) Three months or less.................. $ 30.9 $ 34.6 $ $ $ 30.9 $ 34.6 Greater than three to six months...... Greater than six to nine months....... Greater than nine to twelve months.... 0.5 0.1 0.5 0.1 Greater than twelve months............ 3.6 1.5 7.7 2.2 11.3 3.7 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale............. $ 35.0 $ 36.2 $ 7.7 $ 2.2 $ 42.7 $ 38.4 U.S. INVESTED ASSETS UNREALIZED LOSSES ON FIXED MATURITY SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE BY AGING CATEGORY AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2002 PROBLEM, POTENTIAL PROBLEM, AND ALL OTHER FIXED MATURITY RESTRUCTURED SECURITIES TOTAL GROSS GROSS GROSS CARRYING UNREALIZED CARRYING UNREALIZED CARRYING UNREALIZED AMOUNT LOSSES AMOUNT LOSSES AMOUNT LOSSES (IN MILLIONS) Three months or less.................. $ 98.1 $ 34.6 $ 60.9 $ 29.9 $ 159.0 $ 64.5 Greater than three to six months...... 81.8 52.6 82.3 37.2 164.1 89.8 Greater than six to nine months....... 86.3 79.0 2.5 0.9 88.8 79.9 Greater than nine to twelve months.... Greater than twelve months............ 52.7 46.7 1.4 1.0 54.1 47.7 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale............. $ 318.9 $ 212.9 $ 147.1 $ 69.0 $ 466.0 $ 281.9 Gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity securities where the estimated fair value has been 20% or more below amortized cost were $38.4 million as of December 31, 2003 and $281.9 million as of December 31, 2002. The gross unrealized losses attributed to those securities considered to be "problem", "potential problem" or "restructured" were $36.2 million and $212.9 million as of December 31, 2003, and December 31, 2002, respectively. The following table presents the total carrying amount of our fixed maturity portfolio, as well as its problem, potential problem and restructured fixed maturities for the periods indicated: 92 U.S. INVESTED ASSETS PROBLEM, POTENTIAL PROBLEM AND RESTRUCTURED FIXED MATURITIES AT CARRYING AMOUNT AS OF DECEMBER 31, AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2003 2002 ($ IN MILLIONS) Total fixed maturity securities (public and private)............ $ 36,128.0 $ 33,207.1 Problem fixed maturity securities............................... $ 152.5 $ 262.0 Potential problem fixed maturity securities..................... 230.1 508.4 Restructured fixed maturity securities.......................... 39.9 103.9 Total problem, potential problem and restructured fixed maturity securities........................................ $ 422.5 $ 874.3 Total problem, potential problem and restructured fixed maturity securities as a percent of total fixed maturity securities................................................. 1% 3% MORTGAGE LOANS Mortgage loans comprised 25% and 23% of total U.S. invested assets as of December 31, 2003, and December 31, 2002, respectively. Mortgage loans consist of commercial and residential loans. Commercial mortgage loans comprised $9,630.4 million as of December 31, 2003, and $9,365.8 million as of December 31, 2002, or 73% and 86% of total mortgage loan investments, respectively. Residential mortgages comprised $3,544.6 million as of December 31, 2003 and $1,463.6 million as of December 31, 2002, or 27% and 14% of total mortgage loan investments, respectively. Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. and Principal Bank hold the majority of residential loans. Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. holds residential loans as part of its securitization inventory and Principal Bank holds residential loans to comply with federal thrift charter requirements. As a result of our implementation of FIN 46, effective July 1, 2003, residential mortgage loans include the full consolidation of PRMCR, which provides a source of funding for our residential mortgage loan production. PRMCR held $2.0 billion in mortgage loans held for sale as of December 31, 2003. COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE LOANS. Commercial mortgages play an important role in our investment strategy by: o providing strong risk adjusted relative value in comparison to other investment alternatives; o enhancing total returns; and o providing strategic portfolio diversification. As a result, we have focused on constructing a solid, high quality portfolio of mortgages. Our portfolio is generally comprised of mortgages with conservative loan to value ratios, high debt service coverages and general purpose property types with a strong credit tenancy. Our commercial loan portfolio consists of primarily non recourse, fixed rate mortgages on fully or near fully leased properties. The mortgage portfolio is comprised of general purpose industrial properties, manufacturing office properties and credit oriented retail properties. California accounted for 16% of our commercial mortgage loan portfolio as of December 31, 2003. We are, therefore, exposed to potential losses resulting from the risk of catastrophes, such as earthquakes, that may affect the region. Like other lenders, we generally do not require earthquake insurance for properties on which we make commercial mortgage loans. With respect to California properties, however, we obtain an engineering report specific to each property. 93 The report assesses the buildings design specifications, whether it has been upgraded to meet seismic building codes and the maximum loss that is likely to result from a variety of different seismic events. We also obtain a report that assesses by building and geographic fault lines the amount of loss our commercial mortgage loan portfolio might suffer under a variety of seismic events. Our commercial loan portfolio is highly diversified by borrower. As of December 31, 2003, 39% of the U.S. commercial mortgage loan portfolio was comprised of mortgage loans with principal balances of less than $10.0 million. The total number of commercial mortgage loans outstanding as of December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002 was 1,447 and 1,529, respectively. The average loan size of our commercial mortgage portfolio was $6.7 million as of December 31, 2003. We actively monitor and manage our commercial mortgage loan portfolio. Substantially all loans within the portfolio are analyzed regularly, based on a proprietary risk rating cash flow model, in order to monitor the financial quality of these assets and are internally rated. Based on ongoing monitoring, mortgage loans with a likelihood of becoming delinquent are identified and placed on an internal "watch list". Among criteria which would indicate a potential problem are: imbalances in ratios of loan to value or contract rents to debt service, major tenant vacancies or bankruptcies, borrower sponsorship problems, late payments, delinquent taxes and loan relief/restructuring requests. We state commercial mortgage loans at their unpaid principal balances, net of discount accrual and premium amortization, valuation allowances and write downs for impairment. We provide a valuation allowance for commercial mortgage loans based on past loan loss experience and for specific loans considered to be impaired. Mortgage loans are considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that all amounts due according to the contractual terms of the loan agreement may not be collected. When we determine that a loan is impaired, we either establish a valuation allowance or adjust the cost basis of that loan and record a loss for the excess of the carrying value of the mortgage loan over its estimated fair value. Estimated fair value is based on either the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loans original effective interest rate, the loans observable market price or the fair value of the collateral. We record increases in such valuation allowances as realized investment losses and, accordingly, we reflect the losses in our consolidated results of operations. Such decreases in valuation allowances aggregated $34.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 and $7.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2002. We review our mortgage loan portfolio and analyze the need for a valuation allowance for any loan which is delinquent for 60 days or more, in process of foreclosure, restructured, on the "watch list", or which currently has a valuation allowance. We categorize loans, which are delinquent, loans in process of foreclosure, and loans to borrowers in bankruptcy as "problem" loans. Potential problem loans are loans placed on an internal "watch list" for which management has concerns as to the ability of the borrower to comply with the present loan payment terms and which may result in the loan becoming a problem or being restructured. The decision whether to classify a performing loan as a potential problem involves significant subjective judgments by management as to the likely future economic conditions and developments with respect to the borrower. We categorize loans for which the original terms of the mortgages have been modified or for which interest or principal payments have been deferred as "restructured" loans. We also consider matured loans that are refinanced at below market rates as restructured. We charge mortgage loans deemed to be uncollectible against the allowance for losses and credit subsequent recoveries to the allowance for losses. We maintain the allowance for losses at a level management believes to be adequate to absorb estimated probable credit losses. Management bases its periodic evaluation of the adequacy of the allowance for losses on known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrowers ability to repay, the estimated value of the underlying collateral, composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions and other relevant factors. The evaluation is inherently subjective as it requires estimating the amounts and timing of future cash flows expected to be received on impaired loans that may change. As a result of a change in estimates, we evaluated the adequacy of our commercial mortgage loan allowance at December 31, 2003 and released $23.9 million from the allowance. 94 The following table represents our commercial mortgage valuation allowance for the periods indicated: U.S. INVESTED ASSETS COMMERCIAL MORTGAGE VALUATION ALLOWANCE AS OF DECEMBER 31, AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2003 2002 ($ IN MILLIONS) Beginning balance.......................................... $ 83.6 $ 90.7 Provision.................................................. 1.3 33.5 Release.................................................... (35.3) (40.6) Ending balance............................................. $ 49.6 $ 83.6 Valuation allowance as % of carrying value before reserves. 1% 1% The following table presents the carrying amounts of problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages relative to the carrying amount of all commercial mortgages for the periods indicated: U.S. INVESTED ASSETS PROBLEM, POTENTIAL PROBLEM AND RESTRUCTURED COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES AT CARRYING AMOUNT AS OF DECEMBER 31, AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2003 2002 ($ IN MILLIONS) Total commercial mortgages ................................ $ 9,630.4 $ 9,365.8 Problem commercial mortgages(1)............................ $ 45.9 $ 77.2 Potential problem commercial mortgages .................... 99.3 50.4 Restructured commercial mortgages ......................... 65.3 46.9 Total problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages .................... $ 210.5 $ 174.5 Total problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages as a percent of total commercial. 2% 2% (1) Problem commercial mortgages include no mortgage loans in foreclosure as of December 31, 2003, compared to $0.4 million on December 31, 2002. EQUITY REAL ESTATE We hold commercial equity real estate as part of our investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2003, and December 31, 2002, the carrying amount of equity real estate investment was $1,528.0 million and $1,221.6 million, or 3% and 2% of U.S. invested assets, respectively. We own real estate, real estate acquired upon foreclosure of commercial mortgage loans and interests, both majority owned and non majority owned, in real estate joint ventures. Equity real estate is categorized as either "real estate held for investment" or "real estate held for sale". Real estate held for investment totaled $1,003.6 million as of December 31, 2003, and $1,042.1 million as of December 31, 2002. The carrying value of real estate held for investment is generally adjusted for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. Such impairment adjustments are recorded as realized investment losses and accordingly, are reflected in our consolidated results of operations. For the periods ended December 31, 2003 and December 31, 2002, there were no such impairment adjustments. 95 The carrying amount of real estate held for sale as of December 31, 2003, and December 31, 2002, was $524.4 million and $179.5 million, net of valuation allowances of $19.1 million and $19.3 million, respectively. Once we identify a real estate property to be sold and commence a plan for marketing the property, we classify the property as held for sale. We establish a valuation allowance subject to periodical revisions, if necessary, to adjust the carrying value of the property to reflect the lower of its current carrying value or the fair value, less associated selling costs. We use research, both internal and external, to recommend appropriate product and geographic allocations and changes to the equity real estate portfolio. We monitor product, geographic and industry diversification separately and together to determine the most appropriate mix. Equity real estate is distributed across geographic regions of the country with larger concentrations in the South Atlantic, West South Central and Pacific regions of the United States as of December 31, 2003. By property type, there is a concentration in office buildings that represented approximately 33% of the equity real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2003. OTHER INVESTMENTS Our other investments totaled $1,249.7 million as of December 31, 2003, compared to $1,075.5 million as of December 31, 2002. With the adoption of SFAS 133 on January 1, 2001, derivatives were reflected on our balance sheet and accounted for $736.4 million in other investments as of December 31, 2003. The remaining invested assets include minority interests in unconsolidated entities and properties owned jointly with venture partners and operated by the partners. INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENT OPERATIONS As of December 31, 2003, our international investment operations consist of the investments of Principal International comprised of $2.0 billion in invested assets. Principal Global Investors works with each Principal International affiliate to develop investment policies and strategies that are consistent with the products they offer. Due to the regulatory constraints in each country, each company maintains its own investment policies, which are approved by Principal Global Investors. Each international affiliate is required to submit a compliance report relative to its strategy to Principal Global Investors. Principal Global Investors employees and international affiliate company credit analysts jointly review each corporate credit annually. OVERALL COMPOSITION OF INTERNATIONAL INVESTED ASSETS As shown in the following table, the major categories of international invested assets as of December 31, 2003, and December 31, 2002, were fixed maturity securities and residential mortgage loans: 96 INTERNATIONAL INVESTED ASSETS AS OF DECEMBER 31, AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2003 2002 CARRYING % OF CARRYING % OF AMOUNT TOTAL AMOUNT TOTAL ($ IN MILLIONS) Fixed maturity securities Public......................................... $ 1,334.8 66% $ 998.6 67% Private........................................ 89.8 5 81.7 6 Equity securities................................. 41.8 2 20.6 1 Mortgage loans Residential.................................... 333.1 16 252.5 17 Real estate held for investment................... 9.5 7.4 1 Other investments ................................ 213.3 11 124.6 8 Total invested assets.......................... 2,022.3 100% 1,485.4 100% Cash and cash equivalents......................... 73.1 97.1 Total invested assets and cash ................ $ 2,095.4 $ 1,582.5 USE OF NON GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES AND RECONCILIATIONS TO U.S. GAAP We use a non GAAP financial measure that management believes is useful to investors because it illustrates a current trend in our Life and Health Insurance segment. We have provided reconciliations of the non GAAP financial measure premium and deposits, to the most directly comparable U.S. GAAP financial measure, premium and other considerations. The premium and deposit measure is used to highlight a shift in individual life insurance sales from traditional life insurance products to universal and variable universal life insurance products. Traditional life insurance products generate premium revenue under U.S. GAAP, while universal and variable universal life insurance products do not generate premium revenue under U.S. GAAP. FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2003 2002 2001 ($ IN MILLIONS) PREMIUM AND DEPOSITS: UNIVERSAL AND VARIABLE UNIVERSAL LIFE INSURANCE Premium and deposits................... $ 337.6 $ 298.1 $ 270.1 Less: deposits......................... 352.9 309.5 279.0 GAAP premium and other considerations.. $ (15.3) $ (11.4) $ (8.9) TRADITIONAL LIFE INSURANCE Premium and deposits.................... $ 710.9 $ 737.2 $ 766.2 Less: deposits.......................... GAAP premium and other considerations.. $ 710.9 $ 737.2 $ 766.2 ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK MARKET RISK EXPOSURES AND RISK MANAGEMENT Market risk is the risk that we will incur losses due to adverse fluctuations in market rates and prices. Our primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates, although we also have exposures to changes in equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. The active management of market risk is an integral part of our operations. We manage our overall market risk exposure within established risk tolerance ranges by using the following approaches: 97 o rebalance our existing asset or liability portfolios; o control the risk structure of newly acquired assets and liabilities; or o use derivative instruments to modify the market risk characteristics of existing assets or liabilities or assets expected to be purchased. INTEREST RATE RISK Interest rate risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse changes in interest rates. Our exposure to interest rate risk stems largely from our substantial holdings of guaranteed fixed rate liabilities in our U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment. We manage the interest rate risk inherent in our assets relative to the interest rate risk inherent in our liabilities. One of the measures we use to quantify this exposure is duration. To calculate duration, we project asset and liability cashflows. These cashflows are discounted to a net present value basis using a spot yield curve, which is a blend of the spot yield curves for each of the asset types in the portfolio. Duration is calculated by re calculating these cashflows and redetermining the net present value based upon an alternative level of interest rates, and determining the percentage change in fair value. As of December 31, 2003, the difference between the asset and liability durations on our primary duration managed portfolio was .03 years. This duration gap indicates that as of this date the sensitivity of the fair value of our assets to interest rate movements is greater than that of the fair value of our liabilities. Our goal is to minimize the duration gap. Currently, our guidelines indicate that total duration gaps between the asset and liability portfolios should be within 0.25 years. The value of the assets in this portfolio was $30,005.3 million as of December 31, 2003. For products such as whole life insurance and term life insurance that are less sensitive to interest rate risk, and for other products such as individual single premium deferred annuities, we manage interest rate risk based on a modeling process that considers the target average life, maturities, crediting rates and assumptions of policyholder behavior. As of December 31, 2003, the weighted average difference between the asset and liability durations on these portfolios was .22 years. This duration gap indicates that as of this date the sensitivity of the fair value of our assets to interest rate movements is less than that of the fair value of our liabilities. We attempt to monitor this duration gap consistent with our overall risk/reward tolerances. The value of the assets in the duration monitored portfolios was $13,114.2 million as of December 31, 2003. We also have a block of participating general account pension business that passes the actual investment performance of the assets to the customer. The investment strategy of this block is to maximize investment return to the customer on a "best efforts" basis, and there is little or no attempt to manage the duration of this portfolio since there is little or no interest rate risk. The value of the assets in the non duration managed portfolios was $5,198.9 million as of December 31, 2003. Using the assumptions and data in effect as of December 31, 2003, we estimate that a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase in interest rates increases the net fair value of our portfolio by $20.4 million. The following table details the estimated changes by risk management strategy: 98 AS OF RISK MANAGEMENT DECEMBER 31, 2003 NET FAIR VALUE STRATEGY VALUE OF TOTAL ASSETS CHANGE (IN MILLIONS) Primary duration managed........................... $ 30,005.3 $ (9.0) Duration monitored................................. 13,114.2 29.4 Non duration managed............................... 5,198.9 N/A Total........................................... $ 48,318.4 $ 20.4 We are also exposed to interest rate risk in our Mortgage Banking segment. We manage this risk by striving to balance our loan origination and loan servicing operations, the two of which are generally counter cyclical. In addition, we use various financial instruments, including derivatives contracts, to manage the interest rate risk specifically related to committed loans in the pipeline and mortgage servicing rights. The overall objective of our interest rate risk management policies is to offset changes in the values of these items resulting from changes in interest rates. We do not speculate on the direction of interest rates in our management of interest rate risk. We manage interest rate risk on our mortgage loan pipeline by using cash forward sale commitments, mortgage backed securities in the forward markets, over the counter options on mortgage backed securities, U.S. Treasury and Eurodollar futures contracts, options on futures contracts, interest rate swaps, options on interest rate swaps, private investor contracts to buy or sell residential mortgage loans, and servicing released loans sales programs. We also use interest rate floors, futures contracts, options on futures contracts, swaps and swaptions, mortgage backed securities and principal only strips in hedging a portion of our portfolio of mortgage servicing rights from prepayment risk associated with changes in interest rates. We measure pipeline interest rate risk exposure by adjusting the at risk pipeline in light of the theoretical optionality of each applicants rate/price commitment. The at risk pipeline, which consists of closed loans and rate locks, is then refined at the product type level to express each products sensitivity to changes in market interest rates in terms of a single current coupon MBS duration ("benchmark interest rate"). Suitable hedges are selected and a similar methodology applied to this hedge position. The variety of hedging instruments allows us to match the behavior of the financial instrument with that of the different types of loans originated. Financial risk is limited by requiring that the net position value will not change in excess of an amount established by Senior Management of the Mortgage Banking segment given an instantaneous pre determined price change in the benchmark security. Price sensitivity analysis is performed at least once daily. The pre determined risk limits will be reviewed periodically and updated as needed. The face amount of the loans in the pipeline as of December 31, 2003, was $4.2 billion. Due to the impact of our hedging activities, we estimate that a 100 basis point immediate and sustained increase in the benchmark interest rates decreases the December 31, 2003, net position value by $8.1 million. The financial risk associated with our mortgage servicing operations is the risk that the fair value of the servicing asset falls below its U.S. GAAP book value. To measure this risk, we analyze each servicing risk tranches U.S. GAAP book value in relation to the then current fair value for similar servicing rights. We perform this valuation using option adjusted spread valuation techniques applied to each risk tranche. We produce tranche fair values at least monthly and model our net servicing hedge position at least daily. The fair value of the servicing asset declines as interest rates decrease due to possible mortgage loan servicing rights impairment that may result from increased current and projected future prepayment activity. The change in value of the servicing asset due to interest rate movements is partially offset by the use of financial instruments, including derivative contracts that typically increase in aggregate value when interest rates decline. Financial risk is limited by requiring that the net position value will not change in excess of an amount established by Senior Management of the Mortgage Banking segment given an instantaneous pre determined change in the level of interest rates. Price sensitivity analysis is performed at least once weekly. The pre determined risk limits will be reviewed periodically and updated as needed. Based on values as 99 of December 31, 2003, a 100 basis point immediate parallel and sustained decrease in interest rates produces a $130.1 million decline in value of the servicing asset of our Mortgage Banking segment, net of the impact of these hedging vehicles, due to the differences between fair values and U.S. GAAP book values. CASH FLOW VOLATILITY Cash flow volatility arises as a result of several factors. One is the inherent difficulty in perfectly matching the cash flows of new asset purchases with that of new liabilities. Another factor is the inherent cash flow volatility of some classes of assets and liabilities. In order to minimize cash flow volatility, we manage differences between expected asset and liability cash flows within pre established guidelines. We also seek to minimize cash flow volatility by restricting the portion of securities with redemption features held in our invested asset portfolio. These asset securities include redeemable corporate securities, mortgage backed securities or other assets with options that, if exercised, could alter the expected future cash inflows. In addition, we limit sales liabilities with features such as puts or other options that may change the cash flow profile of the liability portfolio. DERIVATIVES We use various derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, including interest rate swaps, principal only swaps, interest rate floors, swaptions, U.S. Treasury futures, Treasury rate guarantees, interest rate lock commitments and mortgage backed forwards and options. We use interest rate futures contracts and mortgage backed forwards to hedge changes in interest rates subsequent to the issuance of an insurance liability, such as a guaranteed investment contract, but prior to the purchase of a supporting asset, or during periods of holding assets in anticipation of near term liability sales. We use interest rate swaps and principal only swaps primarily to more closely match the interest rate characteristics of assets and liabilities. They can be used to change the sensitivity to the interest rate of specific assets and liabilities as well as an entire portfolio. Occasionally, we will sell a callable liability or a liability with attributes similar to a call option. In these cases, we will use interest rate swaptions or similar products to hedge the risk of early liability payment thereby transforming the callable liability into a fixed term liability. We also seek to reduce call or prepayment risk arising from changes in interest rates in individual investments. We limit our exposure to investments that are prepayable without penalty prior to maturity at the option of the issuer, and we require additional yield on these investments to compensate for the risk that the issuer will exercise such option. An example of an investment we limit because of the option risk is residential mortgage backed securities. We assess option risk in all investments we make and, when we assume such risk, we seek to price for it accordingly to achieve an appropriate return on our investments. We have increased our credit exposure through credit default swaps by investing in subordinated tranches of a synthetic collateralized debt obligation. The outstanding notional amount as of December 31, 2003 was $500.0 million and the mark to market value was $13.7 million. We also invested in credit default swaps creating replicated assets with a notional of $363.3 million and mark to market value of $31.5 million as of December 31, 2003. We also offer a guaranteed fund as an investment option in our defined contribution plans in Hong Kong. This fund contains an embedded option that has been bifurcated and accounted for separately in realized gains (losses). We recognized a $0.1 million pre tax loss for the year ended December 31, 2003. The obligation to deliver the underlying securities of certain consolidated grantor trusts to various unrelated trust certificate holders contains an embedded derivative of the forecasted transaction to deliver the underlying securities. In conjunction with our use of derivatives, we are exposed to counterparty risk, or the risk that counterparty fails to perform the terms of the derivative contract. We actively manage this risk by: 100 o establishing exposure limits which take into account non derivative exposure we have with the counterparty as well as derivative exposure; o performing similar credit analysis prior to approval on each derivatives counterparty that we do when lending money on a long term basis; o diversifying our risk across numerous approved counterparties; o limiting exposure to A+ credit or better; o conducting stress test analysis to determine the maximum exposure created during the life of a prospective transaction; o implementing credit support annex (collateral) agreements with selected counterparties to further limit counterparty exposures; and o daily monitoring of counterparty credit ratings. All new derivative counterparties are approved by the Investment Committee. We believe the risk of incurring losses due to nonperformance by our counterparties is manageable. The notional amounts used to express the extent of our involvement in swap transactions represent a standard measurement of the volume of our swap business. Notional amount is not a quantification of market risk or credit risk and it may not necessarily be recorded on the balance sheet. Notional amounts represent those amounts used to calculate contractual flows to be exchanged and are not paid or received, except for contracts such as currency swaps. Actual credit exposure represents the amount owed to us under derivative contracts as of the valuation date. The following tables present our position in, and credit exposure to, derivative financial instruments as of December 31, 2003, and December 31, 2002: 101 DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS NOTIONAL AMOUNTS AS OF DECEMBER 31, AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2003 2002 NOTIONAL % OF NOTIONAL % OF AMOUNT TOTAL AMOUNT TOTAL ($ IN MILLIONS) Interest rate swaps............................. $ 8,158.9 26% $ 9,719.2 18% Swaptions ...................................... 5,642.5 18 9,772.5 18 Mortgage backed forwards and options............ 4,892.3 16 17,494.9 33 U.S. Treasury futures (LIBOR)................... 4,380.0 14 2,225.0 4 Foreign currency swaps.......................... 2,823.4 9 3,217.0 6 Interest rate lock commitments.................. 2,242.4 7 8,198.1 15 Interest rate floors............................ 1,650.0 5 1,650.0 3 Credit default swaps ........................... 863.3 3 705.2 1 Bond forwards................................... 467.2 1 363.7 1 Currency forwards............................... 282.0 1 0.2 Call options.................................... 30.0 30.0 U.S. Treasury futures........................... 27.8 271.1 1 Bond options.................................... 17.5 Other........................................... 1.5 Principal only swaps............................ 123.6 Treasury rate guarantees........................ 63.0 Total........................................ $31,478.8 100% $53,833.5 100% DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS CREDIT EXPOSURES AS OF DECEMBER 31, AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2003 2002 CREDIT % OF CREDIT % OF EXPOSURE TOTAL EXPOSURE TOTAL ($ IN MILLIONS) Foreign currency swaps.......................... $ 637.1 75% $ 195.0 68% Interest rate swaps............................. 89.6 10 48.4 17 Bond forwards................................... 52.2 6 Credit default swaps............................ 45.9 5 8.9 3 Swaptions ...................................... 29.2 3 31.4 11 Call options.................................... 6.6 1 0.4 Interest rate floors............................ 1.9 1.7 1 Currency forwards............................... 0.3 Total........................................ $ 862.8 100% $ 285.8 100% The following table shows the interest rate sensitivity of our derivatives measured in terms of fair value. These exposures will change as a result of ongoing portfolio and risk management activities. 102 AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2003 FAIR VALUE (NO ACCRUED INTEREST) WEIGHTED AVERAGE 100 BASIS +100 BASIS NOTIONAL TERM POINT POINT AMOUNT (YEARS) CHANGE NO CHANGE CHANGE ($ IN MILLIONS) Interest rate swaps.................. $ 8,158.9 6.04(1) $ 224.6 $ 25.8 $ (147.6) Swaptions............................ 5,642.5 1.05(4) 317.4 161.2 150.9 Mortgage backed forwards and options. 4,892.3 0.09(5) (111.1) (11.6) 116.2 U.S. Treasury futures (LIBOR)........ 4,380.0 0.93(3) (8.6) (1.5) 5.6 Interest rate lock commitments....... 2,242.4 0.10(6) 41.6 11.6 (65.2) Interest rate floors................. 1,650.0 2.50(2) 51.9 23.5 9.9 Bond forwards........................ 467.2 2.83(5) 81.8 52.1 24.6 U.S. Treasury futures................ 27.8 0.22(3) (1.7) (0.1) 1.5 Bond options......................... 17.5 2.79(5) (0.9) (0.6) Total............................. $ 27,478.6 $ 595.0 $ 260.4 $ 95.9 (1) Based on maturity date of swap. (2) Based on maturity date of floor. (3) Based on maturity date. (4) Based on option date of swaption. (5) Based on settlement date. (6) Based on expiration date. We use U.S. Treasury futures to manage our over/under commitment position, and our position in these contracts changes daily. DEBT ISSUED AND OUTSTANDING As of December 31, 2003, the aggregate fair value of long term debt was $2,889.2 million, which includes debt related to our implementation of FIN 46. A 100 basis point, immediate, parallel decrease in interest rates would increase the fair value of debt by approximately $60.1 million. AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2003 FAIR VALUE (NO ACCRUED INTEREST) 100 BASIS +100 BASIS POINT CHANGE NO CHANGE POINT CHANGE (IN MILLIONS) 4.55% notes payable, due 2004...................... $ 414.5 $ 404.8 $ 399.0 7.95% notes payable, due 2004...................... 208.0 206.7 205.5 Variable rate equity certificates, due 2005 (1).... 44.0 44.0 44.0 Variable rate notes payable, due 2006 (2).......... 800.0 800.0 800.0 Variable rate equity certificates, due 2006 (3).... 149.0 149.0 149.0 8.2% notes payable, due 2009....................... 577.4 550.8 525.7 7.875% surplus notes payable, due 2024............. 208.9 206.0 193.7 8% surplus notes payable, due 2044................. 117.3 105.9 95.4 Non recourse mortgages and notes payable........... 357.6 350.3 343.3 Other mortgages and notes payable.................. 72.6 71.7 70.8 Total long term debt............................ $ 2,949.3 $ 2,889.2 $ 2,826.4 (1) Represents $44.0 million at 165 basis points over 1 month LIBOR. 103 (2) Represents $400.0 million at 25 basis points over 1 month LIBOR and $400.0 million at 29 basis points over 1 month LIBOR. (3) Represents $25.2 million at 157 basis points over 1 month LIBOR, $49.3 million at 170 basis points over 1 month LIBOR and $74.5 million at 180 basis points over 1 month LIBOR. EQUITY RISK Equity risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse fluctuations in a particular common stock. As of December 31, 2003, the fair value of our equity securities was $712.5 million. A 10% decline in the value of the equity securities would result in an unrealized loss of $71.3 million. As of December 31, 2003, a 10% immediate and sustained decline in the equity markets would result in a decrease of asset based fee revenues of $41.1 million over the next year. FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK Foreign currency risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. This risk arises from our international operations and foreign currency denominated funding agreements issued to non qualified institutional investors in the international market. The notional amount of our currency swap agreements associated with foreign denominated liabilities as of December 31, 2003, was $2,588.7 million. We also have fixed maturity securities that are denominated in foreign currencies. However, we use derivatives to hedge the foreign currency risk, both interest payments and the final maturity payment, of these funding agreements and securities. As of December 31, 2003, the fair value of our foreign currency denominated fixed maturity securities was $313.4 million. We use currency swap agreements of the same currency to hedge the foreign currency exchange risk related to these investments. The notional amount of our currency swap agreements associated with foreign denominated fixed maturity securities as of December 31, 2003, was $234.7 million. With regard to our international operations, we attempt to do as much of our business as possible in the functional currency of the country of operation. At times, however, we are unable to do so, and in these cases, we use foreign exchange derivatives to hedge the resulting risks. We estimate that as of December 31, 2003, a 10% immediate unfavorable change in each of the foreign currency exchange rates to which we are exposed would result in no material change to the net fair value of our foreign currency denominated instruments identified above, including the currency swap agreements. The selection of a 10% immediate unfavorable change in all currency exchange rates should not be construed as a prediction by us of future market events, but rather as an illustration of the potential impact of such an event. EFFECTS OF INFLATION We do not believe that inflation, in the United States or in the other countries in which we operate, has had a material effect on our consolidated operations over the past five years. In the future, however, we may be affected by inflation to the extent it causes interest rates to rise. 104 
 
