Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following analysis discusses our financial condition as of December 31, 2005, compared with December 31, 2004, and our consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003, and, where appropriate, factors that may affect our future financial performance. The discussion should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes to the financial statements and the other financial information included elsewhere in this Form 10 K. Forward Looking Information Our narrative analysis below contains forward looking statements intended to enhance the readers ability to assess our future financial performance. Forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that represent our beliefs concerning future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments, and contain words and phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," and similar expressions. Forward looking statements are made based upon managements current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects on us. Such forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those included in the forward looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to the following: (1) a decline or increased volatility in the securities markets could result in investors withdrawing from the markets or decreasing their rates of investment, either of which could reduce our net income, revenues and assets under management; (2) our investment portfolio is subject to several risks which may diminish the value of our invested assets and affect our sales, profitability and the investment returns credited to our customers; (3) competition from companies that may have greater financial resources, broader arrays of products, higher ratings and stronger financial performance may impair our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers and maintain our profitability; (4) a downgrade in any of our ratings may increase policy surrenders and withdrawals, reduce new sales and terminate relationships with distributors and cause some of our existing liabilities to be subject to acceleration, additional collateral support, changes in terms, or creation of additional financial obligations; (5) our efforts to reduce the impact of interest rate changes on our profitability and surplus may not be effective; (6) if we are unable to attract and retain sales representatives and develop new distribution sources, sales of our products and services may be reduced; (7) our international businesses face political, legal, operational and other risks that could reduce our profitability in those businesses; (8) our reserves established for future policy benefits and claims may prove inadequate, requiring us to increase liabilities; (9) our ability to pay stockholder dividends and meet our obligations may be constrained by the limitations on dividends Iowa insurance laws impose on Principal Life Insurance Company ("Principal Life"); (10) the pattern of amortizing our deferred policy acquisition costs on our Statement of Financial Accounting Standard ("SFAS") No. 97 Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Long Duration Contracts and for Realized Gains and Losses from the Sale of Investments ("SFAS 97") products may change, impacting both the level of the asset and the timing of our operating earnings; (11) we may need to fund deficiencies in our closed block ("Closed Block") assets; (12) changes in laws, regulations or accounting standards may reduce our profitability; (13) litigation and regulatory investigations may affect our financial strength or reduce our profitability; (14) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could reduce our profitability; and (15) applicable laws and our stockholder rights plan, certificate of incorporation and by laws may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider in their best interests Overview We provide financial products and services through the following segments: U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation, which consists of our asset accumulation operations, which provide retirement savings and related investment products and services, and our asset management operations conducted through Principal Global Investors. We provide a comprehensive portfolio of asset accumulation products and services to businesses and individuals in the U.S., with a concentration on small and medium sized businesses, which we define as businesses with fewer than 1,000 employees. We offer to businesses products and services for defined contribution pension plans, including 401(k) and 403(b) plans, defined benefit pension plans, non qualified executive benefit plans, and employee stock ownership plan consulting services. We also offer annuities, mutual funds and bank products and services to the employees of our business customers and other individuals. Principal Global Investors offers an extensive range of equity, fixed income and real estate investments as well as specialized overlay and advisory services to institutional investors. International Asset Management and Accumulation, which consists of Principal International, offers retirement products and services, annuities, long term mutual funds and life insurance through operations in Brazil, Chile, Mexico, China, Hong Kong, India, and Malaysia. Life and Health Insurance, which provides individual life insurance, group health insurance as well as specialty benefits in the U.S. Our individual life insurance products include universal and variable universal life insurance and traditional life insurance. Our health insurance products include group medical insurance and fee for service 30 claims administration and wellness services. Our specialty benefit products include group dental and vision insurance, individual and group disability insurance, and group life insurance. Corporate and Other, which manages the assets representing capital that has not been allocated to any other segment. Financial results of the Corporate and Other segment primarily reflect our financing activities (including interest expense), income on capital not allocated to other segments, inter segment eliminations, income tax risks and certain income, expenses and other after tax adjustments not allocated to the segments based on the nature of such items. Our historical results contain a Mortgage Banking segment, which engaged in originating, purchasing, selling and servicing residential mortgage loans in the U.S. On July 1, 2004, we closed the sale of Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. to CitiMortgage, Inc., described further in "Transactions Affecting Comparability of Results of Operations." Economic Factors and Trends Modest results in the equity markets along with an increase in net cash flow have led to increases in asset accumulations account values and our asset managements assets under management. In our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment, we continued to grow our existing business through organic growth in our existing subsidiaries and a combination of joint ventures and strategic acquisitions. Over the past few years, we have shifted our marketing emphasis to universal and variable universal life insurance products from traditional life insurance products in our Life and Health segment. We are also in the early stages of a trend toward voluntary products sponsored by employers. Profitability Our profitability depends in large part upon our: amount of assets under management; spreads we earn on our policyholders general account asset accumulation business that result from the difference between what we earn and what we credit; ability to generate fee revenues by providing administrative and investment management services; ability to price our life and health insurance products at a level that enables us to earn a margin over the cost of providing benefits and the expense of acquiring and administering those products, which is primarily a function of competitive conditions, persistency, our ability to assess and manage trends in mortality and morbidity experience, our ability to generate investment earnings and our ability to maintain expenses in accordance with pricing assumptions; ability to manage our investment portfolio to maximize investment returns and minimize risks such as interest rate changes or defaults or impairments of invested assets; ability to effectively hedge fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates; and ability to manage our operating expenses. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The increasing complexity of the business environment and applicable authoritative accounting guidance requires us to closely monitor our accounting policies. Our significant accounting policies are described in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1 Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies". We have identified five critical accounting policies that are complex and require significant judgment and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. A summary of our critical accounting policies is intended to enhance the readers ability to assess our financial condition and results of operations and the potential volatility due to changes in estimates and changes in guidance. The identification, selection and disclosure of critical accounting estimates and policies have been discussed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Valuation of Invested Assets Fixed Maturities, Available for Sale. Fixed maturity securities include bonds, mortgage backed securities and redeemable preferred stock. We classify our fixed maturity securities as either available for sale or trading and, accordingly, carry them at fair value in the statement of financial position. The fair values of our public fixed maturity securities are based on quoted market prices or estimates from independent pricing services. However, 23% of our invested asset portfolio is invested in fixed maturity securities that are private market assets, where there are no readily available market quotes to determine the fair market value. These assets are valued using a spread pricing matrix. Securities are grouped into pricing categories that vary by asset class, sector, rating, and average life. Each pricing category is assigned a risk spread based on studies of observable public market data or market clearing data from the 31 investment professionals assigned to specific security classes. The expected cash flows of the security are then discounted back at the current Treasury curve plus the appropriate risk spread. Although the matrix valuation approach provides a fair valuation of each pricing category, the valuation of an individual security within each pricing category may actually be impacted by company specific factors. Certain market events that could impact the valuation of securities include issuer credit ratings, business climate, management changes, litigation, and government actions among others. An interest rate increase in the range of 20 to 100 basis points, while holding credit spreads constant, produces total values of $37.7 billion and $36.2 billion, as compared to the recorded amount of $38.1 billion related to our fixed maturity, available for sale assets held by the Principal Life general account. Investments classified as available for sale are subject to impairment reviews. When evaluating a fixed maturity security for impairment, we consider relevant facts and circumstances in evaluating whether the impairment is other than temporary. Relevant facts and circumstances considered include: (1) the extent and length of time the fair value has been below cost; (2) the reasons for the decline in value; (3) the financial position and access to capital of the issuer, including the current and future impact of any specific events; and (4) our ability and intent to hold the security for a period of time that allows for the recovery of value which, in some cases, may extend to maturity. When it is determined that the decline in value is other than temporary the carrying value of the security is reduced to its fair value, with a corresponding charge to net income. The corresponding charge is referred to as an other than temporary impairment and is reported as a net realized/unrealized capital loss in our consolidated statement of operations. There are a number of significant risks and uncertainties inherent in the process of monitoring impairments and determining if an impairment is other than temporary. These risks and uncertainties include: (1) the risk that our assessment of an issuers ability to meet all of its contractual obligations will change based on changes in the credit characteristics of that issuer; (2) the risk that the economic outlook will be worse than expected or have more of an impact on the issuer than anticipated; (3) the risk that our investment professionals are making decisions based on fraudulent or misstated information in the financial statements provided by issuers; and (4) the risk that new information obtained by us or changes in other facts and circumstances lead us to change our intent to hold the security until it recovers in value. Any of these situations could result in a charge to net income in a future period. At December 31, 2005, we had $13,163.6 million in available for sale fixed maturity securities with gross unrealized losses totaling $256.2 million. Included in the gross unrealized losses are losses attributable to both movements in market interest rates as well as temporary credit issues. Net income would be reduced by approximately $166.5 million, on an after tax basis, if all the securities were deemed to be other than temporarily impaired. In 2005, we recognized $48.7 million in after tax gains on the sales of impaired securities including a $33.9 million after tax recovery received as the result of a litigation settlement. We also recognized an additional $3.3 million in after tax impairment losses on assets that had previously been impaired and an additional $1.2 million in after tax losses on the sale of previously impaired securities. Mortgage Loans. Mortgage loans consist primarily of commercial mortgage loans on real estate. At December 31, 2005, commercial mortgage loans aggregated to $9,890.7 million. Commercial mortgage loans are generally reported at cost adjusted for amortization of premiums and accrual of discounts, computed using the interest method, and net of valuation allowances. Commercial mortgage loans held for sale are carried at the lower of cost or fair value, less cost to sell, and reported as mortgage loans in the statements of financial position. Commercial mortgage loans on real estate are considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to contractual terms of the loan agreement. When we determine that a loan is impaired, a valuation allowance is established for the difference between the carrying amount of the mortgage loan and the estimated value. Estimated value is based on either the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at the loans effective interest rate, the loans observable market price or fair value of the collateral. The change in valuation allowance is reported as a net realized/unrealized capital loss on our consolidated statements of operations. The determination of the calculation and the adequacy of the mortgage loan allowance and mortgage impairments are subjective. Our periodic evaluation and assessment of the adequacy of the allowance for losses and the need for mortgage impairments is based on known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrowers ability to repay, the estimated value of the underlying collateral, composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions, loss experience and other relevant factors. The calculation for determining loan specific impairment amounts is also subjective, as it requires estimating the amounts and timing of future cash flows expected to be received on impaired loans. Our financial position is sensitive to changes in estimated cash flows from mortgages, the value of the collateral, and changes in the economic environment in general. The allowance for losses can be expected to increase when economic conditions worsen and decrease when economic conditions improve. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs ("DPAC") Commissions and other costs (underwriting, issuance and agency expenses) that vary with and are primarily related to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance policies and investment contract business are capitalized to the extent recoverable. Maintenance costs and acquisition costs that are not deferrable are charged to operations as incurred. 32 DPAC of non participating term life insurance policies are amortized over the premium paying period of the related policies using assumptions consistent with those used in computing policyholder liabilities. Once these assumptions are made for a given policy or group of policies, they will not be changed over the life of the policy. The DPAC for universal life type insurance contracts, participating life insurance policies and investment contracts are amortized over the expected lifetime of the policies in relation to the emergence of estimated gross profits. At issue and each valuation date, we develop an estimate of the expected future gross profits. These estimated gross profits contain assumptions relating to mortality, morbidity, investment yield and expenses. As actual experience emerges, the gross profits may vary from those expected either in magnitude or timing in which case a true up to actual occurs as a charge or credit to current operations. In addition, we are required to revise our assumptions regarding future experience as soon as the current assumptions are no longer actuarially credible. Both actions, reflecting actual experience and changing future estimates, can change the amount of the asset and the pattern of future amortization. For individual variable annuities and group annuities which have separate account equity investment options, we utilize a mean reversion method (reversion to the mean assumption), a common industry practice, to determine the future domestic equity market growth rate assumption used for the amortization of DPAC. This practice assumes that the expectation for long term appreciation is not changed by minor short term market fluctuations. DPAC are subject to recoverability testing at the time of policy issue and loss recognition testing at the end of each accounting period. If loss recognition is necessary, DPAC are written off to the extent that it is determined that future policy premiums and investment income or gross profits are not adequate to cover related losses and expenses. The total DPAC asset balance as of December 31, 2005, was $2.2 billion. The impact of a 1% reduction in the long term investment performance rate assumption on separate accounts in our DPAC models is an estimated $9.6 million reduction in the DPAC asset as of December 31, 2005. Also, removing the mean reversion methodology from the DPAC asset calculation would reduce the December 31, 2005 DPAC balance by $2.8 million. Insurance Reserves Reserves are liabilities representing estimates of the amounts that will come due, at some point in the future, to our contractholders. U.S. GAAP, allowing for some degree of managerial judgment, prescribes the methods of establishing reserves. Future policy benefits and claims include reserves for traditional and group life insurance, accident and health insurance, and individual and group annuities that provide periodic income payments, which are computed using assumptions of mortality, morbidity, lapse, investment performance and expense. These assumptions are based on our experience and are periodically reviewed against industry standards to ensure actuarial credibility. For long duration insurance contracts, once these assumptions are made for a given policy or group of policies, they will not be changed over the life of the policy. However, significant changes in experience or assumptions may require us to provide for expected future losses on a product by establishing premium deficiency reserves. Premium deficiency reserves may also be established for short duration contracts to provide for expected future losses. Our reserve levels are reviewed throughout the year using internal analysis including, among other things, experience studies, claim development analysis and annual statutory asset adequacy analysis. To the extent experience indicates potential loss recognition, we recognize losses on certain lines of business. The ultimate accuracy of the assumptions on these long tailed insurance products cannot be determined until the obligation of the entire block of business on which the assumptions were made is extinguished. Short term variances of actual results from the assumptions used in the computation of the reserves are reflected in current period net income and can impact quarter to quarter net income. Future policy benefits and claims also include reserves for incurred but unreported health claims. We recognize claims costs in the period the service was provided to our members. However, claims costs incurred in a particular period are not known with certainty until after we receive, process and pay the claims. We determine the amount of this liability using actuarial methods based on historical claim payment patterns as well as emerging medical cost trends to determine our estimate of claim liabilities. We also look back to assess how our prior periods estimates developed. To the extent appropriate, changes in such development are recorded as a change to current period claim expense. For the years ending 2005, 2004 and 2003, the amount of the claim reserve adjustment made in that period for prior period estimates was within a reasonable range given our normal claim fluctuations. Benefit Plans The reported expense and liability associated with pension and other postretirement benefit plans requires the use of assumptions. Numerous assumptions are made regarding the discount rate, expected long term rate of return on plan assets, turnover, expected compensation increases, health care claim costs, health care cost trends, retirement rates, and mortality. The discount rate and the expected return on plan assets have the most significant impact on the level of cost. The assumed discount rate is determined by projecting future benefit payments and discounting those cash flows using rates based on the Bloomberg AA Finance yield to maturity curves. For 2005 year end, we set the discount rate at 5.75%. A 0.25% decrease in the discount rate would increase pension benefits Projected Benefit Obligation ("PBO") and 33 the 2006 Net Periodic Pension Cost ("NPPC") by approximately $59.2 million and $10.9 million, respectively. A 0.25% decrease in the discount rate would increase other post retirement benefits Accumulated Postretirement Benefit Obligation ("APBO") and the 2006 Net Periodic Benefit Cost ("NPBC") by approximately $10.0 million and $0.5 million, respectively. A 0.25% increase in the discount rate would result in decreases in benefit obligations and expenses at a level generally commensurate with that noted above. The assumed long term rate of return on plan assets is set at the long term rate expected to be earned based on the long term investment policy of the plans and the various classes of the invested funds. Historical and future expected returns of multiple asset classes were analyzed to develop a risk free real rate of return and risk premiums for each asset class. The overall long term rate for each asset class was developed by combining a long term inflation component, the risk free real rate of return, and the associated risk premium. A weighted average rate was developed based on long term returns for each asset class, the plans target asset allocation policy, and the tax structure of the trusts. For the 2005 NPPC and 2005 NPBC, an 8.5% and 7.3% weighted average long term rate of return was used, respectively. For the 2006 NPPC and 2006 NPBC, an 8.25% and 7.3% weighted average long term rate of return assumption will be used, respectively. A 0.25% decrease in the long term rate of return would increase 2006 NPPC by approximately $3.2 million and the 2006 NPBC by approximately $1.1 million. A 0.25% increase in this rate would result in a decrease to expense at the same levels. The expected return on plan assets is based on the fair market value of plan assets as of September 30, 2005. The compensation increase assumption is generally set at a rate consistent with current and expected long term compensation and salary policy, including inflation. Actuarial gains and losses are amortized using a straight line amortization method over the average remaining service period of employees, which is approximately 9 years for pension costs and approximately 13 years for other postretirement benefit costs. Prior service costs are amortized on a weighted average basis over approximately 8 years for both pension and other postretirement benefit costs. Income Taxes We provide for income taxes based on our estimate of the liability for taxes due. Our tax accounting represents managements best estimate of various events and transactions, such as completion of tax audits, which could have an impact on our estimates and effective tax rate in a particular quarter or annual period. Inherent in the provision for income taxes are estimates regarding the deductibility of certain items, the timing of income and expense recognition and the realization of certain tax credits. In the event our estimates of the ultimate deductibility of certain items, the timing of the recognition of income and expense or the realization of certain tax credits differ from prior estimates due to the receipt of new information, we may be required to significantly change the provision for income taxes recorded in the consolidated financial statements. Any such change could significantly affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements in the year these estimates change. In addition, the amount of income taxes paid is subject to audits in various jurisdictions. Tax benefits are recognized for book purposes when the probable threshold is met with regard to the validity of the tax position. Once this threshold is met, for each tax reporting issue, we provide for our best estimate of the payments to be made to or received from the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities for audits ongoing or not yet commenced. We believe that we have adequate defenses against, or sufficient provisions for, the contested issues, but final resolution of contested issues could take several years while legal remedies are pursued. Consequently, we do not anticipate the ultimate resolution of audits ongoing or not yet commenced to have a material impact on our net income. Recent Events Principal Financial Services, Inc. Common Stock Dividend On February 28, 2006, Principal Financial Services, Inc. declared a common stock dividend to its parent company of up to $625.0 million. Principal Life Common Stock Dividend On February 28, 2006, Principal Life declared a common stock dividend to its parent company of up to $625.0 million, $425.0 million of which was accrued as of February 28, 2006. 34 Transactions Affecting Comparability of Results of Operations Acquisitions We acquired the following businesses, among others, during the past three years: Principal Global Services Private Limited In December 2005, we formed Principal Global Services Private Limited ("PGS"), which will operate in Pune, India, starting in mid 2006. PGS employees will perform services for our U.S. operations including claims data entry, IT coding/application development, and IT quality assurance. PGS start up costs will be reported in our Corporate and Other segment. Once operating, expenses will be allocated to segments for which services are performed. Principal Commercial Funding II. On October 24, 2005, Principal Real Estate Investors and U.S. Bank National Association announced that they agreed to create Principal Commercial Funding II, a jointly owned business that will compete in the commercial mortgage backed securities ("CMBS") market. Principal Real Estate Investors is the real estate investment arm of Principal Global Investors. U.S. Bank National Association is the principal banking subsidiary of U.S. Bancorp. The new company is the CMBS platform for both Principal Real Estate Investors and U.S. Bank National Association and focuses on securitizing commercial mortgages originated by both Principal Real Estate Investors and U.S. Bank National Association on its behalf. Principal Commercial Funding II began operations immediately, and will begin contributing collateral to securitizations during the first quarter of 2006. The operations of Principal Commercial Funding II are reported in our U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment. CCB Principal Asset Management Company, Ltd. On August 7, 2005, we announced that we entered into a joint venture agreement with China Construction Bank ("CCB") to market mutual funds in the Peoples Republic of China. We closed the transaction on September 19, 2005 with a 25% ownership in CCB Principal Asset Management Company, Ltd. The operations of CCB Principal Asset Management Company, Ltd are reported and consolidated in our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment. PNB Principal Insurance Advisory Company Pvt. Ltd. On February 21, 2005, Principal Financial Group (Mauritius) Ltd. ("PFGM") acquired a 26% stake and management control of PNB Principal Insurance Advisory Company Pvt. Ltd. ("PPIAC"), an insurance brokerage company in India. The operations of PPIAC are reported and consolidated in our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment. ABN AMRO Trust Services Company. On December 17, 2004, we announced an agreement to acquire ABN AMRO Trust Services Company ("Principal Services Trust Company"), a Chicago based pension and retirement business. Principal Services Trust Company provides full service defined contribution recordkeeping and investment services in the U.S. administering, approximately 280 401(k) plans with more than 120,000 participants, representing $4.0 billion in full service account values as of December 31, 2004. We closed the transaction on December 31, 2004. The operations of Principal Services Trust Company are reported in our U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment. We are currently in the process of integrating this business into full service accumulation with plans to be complete by early 2006. Columbus Circle Investors. On October 14, 2004, we agreed to purchase a 70% interest in Columbus Circle Investors ("Columbus Circle"). The acquisition of Columbus Circle increased our assets under management by $3.9 billion. Columbus Circle has specialized expertise in the management of growth equities. We closed the transaction on January 3, 2005. The operations of Columbus Circle are reported in our U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment. Principal Fund Management (Hong Kong) Limited. On January 31, 2004, our wholly owned subsidiary, Principal Asset Management Company (Asia) Limited, purchased a 100% ownership of Dao Heng Fund Management in Hong Kong from Guoco Group Limited ("Guoco"). Effective September 17, 2004, we changed the name of this subsidiary to Principal Fund Management (Hong Kong) Limited. This acquisition increases our presence in the Hong Kong defined contribution pension market and increases the potential of our long term mutual fund operations. We report these operations in our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment. Molloy Companies. On December 17, 2003, we signed an agreement to acquire the Molloy Companies. The Molloy Companies consist of J.F. Molloy & Associates, Inc., Molloy Medical Management, Inc., Molloy Actuarial and Consulting Corporation and Molloy Wellness Company. The Molloy Companies offer companies and organizations consultative, administrative and claims services for insured and self funded health plans through top benefit brokers and consultants. Effective January 2, 2004, the operations of the Molloy Companies are reported in our Life and Health segment. Molloy Wellness Company is now known as Principal Wellness Company Principal PNB Asset Management Company. On August 31, 2003, we announced that our wholly owned subsidiary, Principal Financial Group (Mauritius) Ltd., had entered into a joint venture agreement with Punjab National Bank ("PNB") and Vijaya Bank, two large Indian commercial banks, to sell long term mutual funds and related financial services in India. We closed the transaction on May 5, 2004. The new company is called Principal PNB Asset Management Company. As part of this transaction, we rolled our existing fund management company, Principal Asset Management Company, into the joint venture. We have retained 65% of the new company, sold 30% to PNB, who merged their own PNB funds into the new company, and sold 5% to Vijaya Bank. 35 As part of our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment, we account for Principal PNB Asset Management Companys statements of financial position using the full consolidation method of accounting. Activity that affected our statements of operations before our acquisition of majority ownership of the subsidiary on June 24, 2003 was accounted for using the equity method of accounting. Post Advisory Group. On August 21, 2003, we agreed to purchase approximately 68% of Post Advisory Group ("Post Advisory") for approximately $101.6 million. Effective October 15, 2003, we owned 23% of Post Advisory and purchased an additional 45% on, January 5, 2004. Our assets under management have increased $5.9 billion as a result of the acquisition. The operations of Post Advisory are reported in our U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment. AFORE Tepeyac S.A. de C.V. On February 28, 2003, we purchased a 100% ownership of AFORE Tepeyac S.A. de C.V. ("AFORE Tepeyac") in Mexico from Mapfre American Vida, Caja Madrid and Mapfre Tepeyac for MX$590.0 million Mexican Pesos ("MX$") (approximately U.S. $53.5 million). The operations of AFORE Tepeyac have been integrated into Principal International, Inc., as a part of our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment. Benefit Consultants, Inc. On January 1, 2003, we acquired Benefit Consultants, Inc. ("BCI Group") headquartered in Appleton, Wisconsin. BCI Group is a full service consulting, actuarial and administration firm that specializes in administering qualified and nonqualified retirement benefit plans with a primary focus on employee stock ownership plans. The operations of BCI Group are reported in our U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment. We have integrated BCI Group operations into Principal Life and refer to it as "employer securities group". Dispositions We entered into disposition agreements or disposed of the following businesses, among others, during the past three years: ING/Principal Pensions Company Ltd. On May 26, 2005, we announced jointly with our partner, ING, the intent to liquidate the ING/Principal Pensions Company, Ltd. operation in Japan. On December 20, 2005, the liquidation process was completed with a formal liquidation filing to the Japanese corporate registry. The results of ING/Principal Pensions Company Ltd. were reported in our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment. Real Estate Investments. In the second and third quarters 2005, we sold certain real estate properties previously held for investment purposes. These properties qualify for discontinued operations treatment under SFAS No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long Lived Assets ("SFAS 144"). Therefore, the results of operations have been removed from our results of continuing operations for all periods presented. All assets, including cash, and liabilities of the discontinued operations have been reclassified to separate discontinued asset and liability line items on the consolidated statements of financial position. We have separately disclosed the operating, investing and financing portions of the cash flows attributable to our discontinued operations in our consolidated statements of cash flows. The gains on disposal are reported as other after tax adjustments in our Corporate and Other segment. The properties were sold to take advantage of positive real estate market conditions in specific geographic locations and to further diversify our real estate portfolio. Selected financial information for the discontinued operation is as follows: December 31, 2005 2004 (in millions) Assets Real estate $ $ 75.5 All other assets 2.8 Total assets $ $ 78.3 Liabilities All other liabilities $ $ 2.1 Total liabilities $ $ 2.1 36 For the year ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 (in millions) Total revenues $ 2.2 $ 2.5 $ 4.0 Income from discontinued operations Income before income taxes $ 2.2 $ 2.5 $ 4.0 Income taxes 0.8 0.9 1.4 Income from discontinued operations, net of related income taxes 1.4 1.6 2.6 Income on disposal of discontinued operations, net of related income taxes 22.3 Net income $ 23.7 $ 1.6 $ 2.6 Principal International Argentina S.A. On July 2, 2004, we closed the sale of PI Argentina, our subsidiary in Argentina, and its wholly owned subsidiaries, Principal Life Compa&ntilde;&iacute;a de Seguros, S.A. and Principal Retiro Compa&ntilde;&iacute;a de Seguros de Retiro, S.A. Our total after tax proceeds from the sale were approximately U.S. $29.2 million. The decision to sell PI Argentina was made with a view toward focusing our resources, executing in core strategic priorities and markets and meeting stockholders expectations. Changing market dynamics since the 2001 economic crisis in Argentina led us to conclude that the interests of Principal Financial Group, Inc.s stockholders would best be served by our exit of this market. PI Argentina qualifies for discontinued operations treatment under SFAS 144, therefore, the results of operations have been removed from our results of continuing operations and segment operating earnings for all periods presented. All assets, including cash, and liabilities of the discontinued operations have been reclassified to separate discontinued asset and liability line items on the consolidated statements of financial position. We have separately disclosed the operating, investing and financing portions of the cash flows attributable to our discontinued operations in our consolidated statements of cash flows. Selected financial information for the discontinued operations of PI Argentina is as follows: For the year ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 (in millions) Total revenues $ $ 5.8 $ 10.1 Income (loss) from discontinued operations: Income (loss) before income taxes $ $ 0.3 $ (1.7 ) Income taxes 0.1 0.2 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of related income taxes(1) 0.2 (1.9 ) Income on disposal of discontinued operations, net of related income taxes 9.8 Net income (loss) $ $ 10.0 $ (1.9 ) (1)The 2004 summary results of operations information is for the six months ended prior to the July 2, 2004, sale of PI Argentina and, accordingly, there is no statement of operations data to present subsequent to the date of the sale. Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. On July 1, 2004, we closed the sale of Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. to CitiMortgage, Inc. Our total after tax proceeds from the sale were approximately $620.0 million. Our Mortgage Banking segment, which includes Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc., is accounted for as a discontinued operation, under SFAS 144 and therefore, the results of operations (excluding corporate overhead) have been removed from our results of continuing operations and segment operating earnings for all periods presented. All assets, including cash, and liabilities of the discontinued operations have been reclassified to separate discontinued asset and liability line items on the consolidated statements of financial position. We have separately disclosed the operating, investing and financing portions of the cash flows attributable to our discontinued operations in our consolidated statements of cash flows. Corporate overhead allocated to our Mortgage Banking segment does not qualify for discontinued operations treatment under SFAS 144 and is included in our results of continuing operations and segment operating earnings for all periods prior to July 1, 2004. The decision to sell Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. was made with a view toward intensifying our strategic focus on our core retirement and risk protection business as well as achieving our longer term financial objectives. In addition, the sale was also viewed as a positive move for our stockholders as we go forward from an improved capital position, with better financial flexibility and greater stability of earnings. 37  Selected financial information for the discontinued operations of our Mortgage Banking segment is as follows: For the year ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 (in millions) Total revenues $ $ 446.1 $ 1,396.8 Loss from continuing operations, net of related income taxes (represents corporate overhead) $ $ (10.3 ) $ (18.1 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations Income before income taxes 48.3 113.6 Income taxes 18.3 42.3 Income from discontinued operations, net of related income taxes(1) 30.0 71.3 Income (loss) on disposal of discontinued operations, net of related income taxes (5.0 ) 92.3 Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of related income taxes (10.0 ) Net income (loss) $ (5.0 ) $ 112.0 $ 43.2 (1)The 2004 summary results of operations information is for the six months ended prior to the July 1, 2004, sale of Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. and, accordingly, there is no statement of operations data to present subsequent to the date of the sale. Our U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment held residential mortgage banking escrow deposits (reported as other liabilities) as of December 31, 2003. The purchaser (or acquirer) closed out the banking escrow deposit accounts as a result of the sale. U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation total revenues from this arrangement reclassified to discontinued operations for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003 were $(5.6) million and $28.6 million, respectively. Income (loss) from discontinued operations net of related income taxes, for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, were $(3.5) million and $11.2 million, respectively. BT Financial Group. On October 31, 2002, we sold substantially all of BT Financial Group to Westpac Banking Corporation ("Westpac"). As of December 31, 2005, we have received proceeds of A$958.9 million Australian dollars ("A$") (U.S. $537.4 million) from Westpac. Our total after tax proceeds from the sale were approximately U.S. $900.0 million. This amount includes cash proceeds from Westpac, tax benefits and a gain from unwinding the hedged asset associated with our investment in BT Financial Group. The decision to sell BT Financial Group was made with a view toward focusing our resources, executing on core strategic priorities and meeting stockholder expectations. Changing market dynamics since our acquisition of BT Financial Group, including industry consolidation, led us to conclude that the interests of BT Financial Group clients and staff would be best served under Westpacs ownership. Refinements to the estimated loss, reported as discontinued operations, resulted in an increase to net income of $8.4 million and $21.8 million in 2005 and 2003, respectively. Fluctuations in Foreign Currency to U.S. Dollar Exchange Rates Fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates for countries in which we have operations can affect reported financial results. In years when foreign currencies weaken against the U.S. dollar, translating foreign currencies into U.S. dollars results in fewer U.S. dollars to be reported. When foreign currencies strengthen, translating foreign currencies into U.S. dollars results in more U.S. dollars to be reported. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations create variances in our financial statement line items but have not had a material impact on our consolidated income from continuing operations. Our consolidated income from continuing operations was positively impacted $7.1 million and $1.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, and 2004, respectively, and negatively impacted $5.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003 as a result of fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates. For a discussion of our approaches to foreign currency exchange rate risk, see Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk." Pension and Other Postretirement Benefit Expense The 2005 annual pension benefit expense for substantially all of our employees and certain agents was $48.6 million pre tax, which was an $8.8 million increase from the 2004 pre tax pension expense of $39.8 million. Of the $39.8 million of 2004 pre tax expense, $51.8 million of expense ran through operating earnings and $12.1 million in pre tax gains ran through discontinued operations due to the mid year remeasurement for the Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. divestiture. The discount rate used to determine the 2005 expense was 6.0%, which is down from the 6.25% and 6.5% discount rates used to calculate the 2004 expense. Two discount rates were used in 2004 due to the mid year 38 remeasurement for the Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. divestiture. The expected long term return on assets assumption used for the 2005 pension expense remained at 8.5%. Effective January 1, 2006, we are making changes to our retirement program, including the Principal Select Savings Plan ("401(k) Plan") and the Principal Pension Plan ("Pension Plan") and the corresponding nonqualified plans. The qualified and nonqualified Pension Plan changes include a reduction to the traditional and cash balance formulas, a change in the early retirement factors, and the removal of the cost of living adjustments for traditional benefits earned after January 1, 2006. The qualified and nonqualified 401(k) Plan company match is increasing from 50 percent of a 6 percent deferral to 75 percent of an 8 percent deferral. The Pension Plan changes will reduce the Pension Plan expense in 2006, while the 401(k) changes will increase the 401(k) expense. The 2006 pension expense for substantially all of our employees and certain agents is expected to be approximately $34.6 million. This is a decrease of $14.0 million over the 2005 pension expense. This decrease is due to the reduction in the Pension Plan formulas and asset performance in excess of our 8.5% long term assumption. Partially offsetting this was an increase attributable to the use of a lower discount rate and lower long term asset return assumption. The discount rate used to develop the 2006 expense was lowered to 5.75%, down from the 6.0% discount rate used to develop the 2005 expense. The long term asset assumption was also lowered to 8.25%, down from the 8.50% assumption used to develop the 2005 expense. The 2006 decrease in pension expense is expected to be offset by a $14.2 million increase in 401(k) Plan company matching expense resulting from the January 1, 2006, 401(k) Plan changes. Recent Accounting Changes On September 19, 2005, the Accounting Standards Executive Committee ("AcSEC") issued Statement of Position ("SOP") 05 1, Accounting by Insurance Enterprises for Deferred Acquisition Costs in Connection With Modifications or Exchanges of Insurance Contracts. AcSEC defines an internal replacement as a modification in product benefits, features, rights, or coverages that occurs by the exchange of a contract for a new contract, or by amendment, endorsement, or rider to a contract, or by the election of a feature or coverage within a contract. An internal replacement that is determined to result in a replacement contract that is substantially unchanged from the replaced contract should be accounted for as a continuation of the replaced contract. Contract modifications resulting in a replacement contract that is substantially changed from the replaced contract should be accounted for as an extinguishment of the replaced contract and any unamortized deferred acquisition costs, unearned revenue liabilities, and deferred sales inducement assets from the replaced contract should be written off and acquisition costs on the new contracts capitalized as appropriate. This SOP is effective for internal replacements occurring in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2006. We are still evaluating the impact this guidance will have to our consolidated financial statements. On May 30, 2005, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (the "FASB") issued SFAS No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections, a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20 and FASB Statement No. 3 ("SFAS 154"), which changes the requirements for the accounting and reporting of a change in accounting principle. Under SFAS 154, a change in accounting principle should be retrospectively applied to all prior periods, unless it is impracticable to do so. This retrospective application requirement replaces the Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 20, Accounting Changes ("APB 20"), requirement to recognize changes in accounting principle by including the cumulative effect of the change in net income during the current period. SFAS 154 applies to all voluntary changes in accounting principles where we are changing to a more preferable accounting method, as well as to changes required by an accounting pronouncement that does not contain specific transition provisions. SFAS 154 carries forward without change the guidance contained in APB 20 for reporting the correction of an error in previously issued financial statements and a change in accounting estimate. SFAS 154 is effective for accounting changes on or after January 1, 2006. SFAS 154 does not change the transition provisions of any existing accounting pronouncements. On December 21, 2004, the FASB issued FASB Staff Position ("FSP") No. 109 2, Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign Earning Repatriation Provision within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ("FSP 109 2"). The American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the "Act") was enacted on October 22, 2004, and introduces, among other things, a special one time dividends received deduction on the repatriation of certain foreign earnings to a U.S. taxpayer ("repatriation provision"), provided certain criteria are met. FSP 109 2 was issued to allow additional time for companies to determine whether any foreign earnings will be repatriated under the Acts repatriation provision, given the law was enacted late in the year and certain provisions were unclear. Under FSP 109 2, companies that took the additional time were required to provide disclosures about the status of the companys evaluation and the potential effects of its decision. FSP 109 2 was effective for the year ended December 31, 2004. Our current tax accrual reflects application of the provisions of the Act. On December 16, 2004, the FASB issued SFAS No. 123 (revised 2004), Share Based Payment, ("SFAS 123R"). SFAS 123R requires all share based payments to employees to be recognized at fair value in the financial statements. SFAS 123R replaces SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation ("SFAS 123"), supersedes APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees ("APB 25"), and SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock Based Compensation Transition and Disclosure an Amendment of FASB Statement No. 123 and amends FASB Statement No. 95, Statement of Cash Flows. On April 14, 2005, the SEC approved a new rule delaying the effective date of SFAS 123R to annual periods that begin after June 15, 2005. Accordingly, we will be adopting SFAS 123R effective 39 January 1, 2006 using the modified prospective method. This Statement will not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements as we began expensing all stock options using a fair value based method effective for the year beginning January 1, 2002. In addition, any stock options granted prior to January 1, 2002 are fully vested. We applied the prospective method of transition as prescribed by SFAS 123 when we elected to begin expensing stock based compensation in 2002. In May 2005, we learned of discussions between several major accounting firms, the FASB and the SEC concluding it is appropriate to recognize compensation cost either immediately for stock awards granted to retirement eligible employees, or over the period from the grant date to the date retirement eligibility is achieved, if retirement eligibility is expected to occur during the nominal vesting period. Our approach has been to follow the widespread practice of recognizing compensation cost over the explicit service period (up to the date of actual retirement). For any awards that are granted after we adopt SFAS 123R on January 1, 2006, we will recognize compensation cost through the period that the employee first becomes eligible to retire and is no longer required to provide service to earn the award. If we had applied the nonsubstantive vesting provisions of SFAS 123R to awards granted prior to January 1, 2006, our consolidated financial statements would not have been materially impacted. In December 2004, SFAS No. 153, Exchange of Nonmonetary Assets, an amendment of APB Opinion No. 29 ("SFAS 153"), was issued. APB Opinion No. 29, Accounting for Nonmonetary Transactions ("APB 29"), provides the basic principle that exchanges of nonmonetary assets should be measured based on the fair value of the assets exchanged. However, APB 29 provided an exception that allowed certain exchanges of similar productive assets to be recorded at book value. SFAS 153 amends APB 29 to eliminate this exception and requires non monetary exchanges that meet certain criteria to be accounted for at fair value. We adopted SFAS 153 and are applying its guidelines to nonmonetary exchanges occurring on or after July 1, 2005. Results of Operations The following table presents summary consolidated financial information for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 (in millions) Revenues: Premiums and other considerations $ 3,975.0 $ 3,710.0 $ 3,630.7 Fees and other revenues 1,683.2 1,472.0 1,185.8 Net investment income 3,360.7 3,224.0 3,229.4 Net realized/unrealized capital losses (11.2 ) (104.8 ) (63.2 ) Total revenues 9,007.7 8,301.2 7,982.7 Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses 5,282.9 4,959.5 4,855.8 Dividends to policyholders 293.0 296.7 307.9 Operating expenses 2,307.5 2,165.9 1,998.7 Total expenses 7,883.4 7,422.1 7,162.4 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 1,124.3 879.1 820.3 Income taxes 232.4 178.2 175.6 Income from continuing operations, net of related income taxes 891.9 700.9 644.7 Income from discontinued operations, net of related income taxes 27.1 130.4 105.0 Income before cumulative effect of accounting changes 919.0 831.3 749.7 Cumulative effect of accounting changes, net of related income taxes (5.7 ) (3.4 ) Net income 919.0 825.6 746.3 Preferred stock dividends 17.7 Net income available to common stockholders $ 901.3 $ 825.6 $ 746.3 Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 Premiums and other considerations increased $265.0 million, or 7%, to $3,975.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $3,710.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase was primarily due to a $170.5 million increase from the Life and Health Insurance segment, primarily related to strong sales and stable persistency in our specialty benefits business and higher premium per member in our health insurance business partially 40 offset by a decline in premiums resulting from the continuation of a shift in marketing emphasis from individual traditional life insurance products to individual universal and variable universal life insurance products. The increase also reflected an $85.1 million increase from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily a result of an increase in premiums from single premium group annuities with life contingencies, which are typically used to fund defined benefit pension plan terminations. The premium income we receive from these contracts fluctuates due to the variability in the number and size of pension plan terminations in the market, the interest rate environment and our ability to attract new sales. Fees and other revenues increased $211.2 million, or 14%, to $1,683.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $1,472.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase was primarily due to a $179.2 million increase from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment primarily related to an increase in account values and assets under management, modest performance in the equity markets and our acquisitions of Principal Services Trust Company and Columbus Circle. Net investment income increased $136.7 million, or 4%, to $3,360.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $3,224.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase was primarily related to a $2,393.8 million, or 4%, increase in average invested assets and cash. The yield on average invested assets and cash was 5.8% for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Net realized/unrealized capital losses decreased $93.6 million, or 89%, to $11.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $104.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease is due to fewer other than temporary impairments of fixed maturity securities ($90.2 million) including a $52.1 million recovery of previously impaired securities received as the result of a litigation settlement, fewer losses related to the mark to market of derivative activities ($56.8 million), and gains versus losses on mortgage loans and real estate ($24.5 million) offset in part by fewer mark to market gains on certain seed money investments ($30.4 million), fewer gains on the sales of other fixed maturity securities ($13.9 million), more credit losses related to the sales of fixed maturity securities ($23.3 million), and the impairment of an equity partnership interest ($14.4 million). The following table highlights the contributors to net realized/unrealized capital gains and losses for the year ended December 31, 2005. For the year ended December 31, 2005 Impairments and credit losses Other gains (losses) Hedging adjustments Net realized/ unrealized capital gains (losses) (in millions) Fixed maturity securities(1) $ 16.6 $ 8.2 $ (45.8 ) $ (21.0 ) Equity securities(2) (3.0 ) 9.9 6.9 Mortgage loans on real estate(3) 1.3 1.3 Derivatives 17.2 17.2 Other(4) (14.4 ) 9.8 (11.0 ) (15.6 ) Total $ 0.5 $ 27.9 $ (39.6 ) $ (11.2 ) (1)Impairments include $28.6 million of impairment write downs and $74.0 million in realized recoveries on the sale of previously impaired assets. Credit losses include $2.0 million in realized gains and $30.8 million in realized losses related to credit triggered sales. Other gains (losses) includes gross realized gains of $39.5 million and gross realized losses of $31.3 million. Included in the $31.3 million of losses is an $11.0 million loss related to a large investment that was called from us in September. (2)Impairments include $3.0 million of impairment write downs. Other gains (losses) includes gross realized gains of $15.7 million and gross realized losses of $5.8 million. (3)Impairments include $6.3 million in realized losses due to the sale of commercial mortgage loans and a $7.6 million decrease in the commercial mortgage valuation allowance. (4)Impairments include $14.4 million in realized losses related to an equity partnership interest. Other gains (losses) include $11.8 million in mark to market of net realized/unrealized gains on certain seed money investments. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $323.4 million, or 7%, to $5,282.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $4,959.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase was primarily due to a $165.6 million increase from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily reflecting the increase in reserves resulting from an increase in sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies and an increase in interest credited on our investment only block of business stemming from an increase in account values. The increase also reflected a $105.5 million increase from the Life and Health Insurance segment, primarily due to increased claim costs per medical member, an increase in medical members, and growth in the specialty benefits business. 41 Dividends to policyholders decreased $3.7 million, or 1%, to $293.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $296.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease was primarily due to a $3.3 million decrease from the Life and Health Insurance segment, resulting from a declining interest rate environment. Operating expenses increased $141.6 million, or 7%, to $2,307.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $2,165.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase reflected a $145.5 million increase from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily due to growth in our asset management business, an increase in compensation costs and due to our acquisitions of Principal Services Trust Company and Columbus Circle. Income taxes increased $54.2 million, or 30%, to $232.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $178.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The effective income tax rate was 21% for the year ended December 31, 2005, and 20% for the year ended December 31, 2004. The effective income tax rates for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, were lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35% primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received, tax credits on our investment in a synthetic fuel production facility, and interest exclusion from taxable income. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of income from discontinued operations and the cumulative effect of accounting change, net of related income taxes, net income increased $93.4 million, or 11%, to $919.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $825.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The income from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2005, was related to gains on the sales and operating revenues of real estate properties that qualify for discontinued operations treatment under SFAS 144 and refinements to the estimated loss on the disposal of BT Financial Group partially offset by the negative impact of a change in the estimated gain from the discontinued operations for Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. The income from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2004, was related to our sale of Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc., the sale of our Argentine companies, and operating revenues of real estate properties that qualify for discontinued operations treatment under SFAS 144. The cumulative effect of accounting change was related to our implementation of SOP 03 1, Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Nontraditional Long Duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts ("SOP 03 1") in 2004. Preferred stock dividends were $17.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, with no corresponding activity for the year ended December 31, 2004. Net income available to common stockholders increased $75.7 million, or 9%, to $901.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $825.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2003 Premiums and other considerations increased $79.3 million, or 2%, to $3,710.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $3,630.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The increase reflected a $77.6 million increase from the Life and Health segment primarily due to strong sales and favorable retention in our specialty benefits business and health insurance rate increases partially offset by a decline in premiums resulting from a shift in marketing emphasis from individual traditional life insurance products to individual universal and variable universal life insurance products. Fees and other revenues increased $286.2 million, or 24%, to $1,472.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $1,185.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation fees and other revenues increased $185.5 million primarily related to an increase in fees from our separate accounts and due to improvements in the equity markets and net cash flow, which have led to higher account values. In addition, Life and Health Insurance fees and other revenues increased $83.0 million primarily due to growth in the individual universal and variable universal life insurance business and the acquisition of the Molloy Companies effective January 2, 2004. Net investment income decreased $5.4 million to $3,224.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $3,229.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The decrease was primarily related to a decrease in annualized investment yields. The yield on average invested assets and cash was 5.8% for the year ended December 31, 2004, compared to 6.2% for the year ended December 31, 2003. This reflects lower yields on invested assets due in part to a lower interest rate environment. Partially offsetting the decrease was a $4,088.7 million, or 8% increase in average invested assets and cash. Net realized/unrealized capital losses increased $41.6 million, or 66%, to $104.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $63.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The increase in net realized losses was primarily due to higher mark to market losses related to hedging activities ($75.9 million), fewer mark to market gains on certain seed money investments ($38.3 million), and the impact of foreign currency transaction gains and losses ($38.1 million) offset by fewer other than temporary declines in the value of certain fixed maturity securities ($108.1 million). 42 The following table highlights the contributors to net realized/unrealized capital gains and losses for the year ended December 31, 2004. For the year ended December 31, 2004 Impairments and credit losses Other net realized gains (losses) Hedging adjustments Net realized/ unrealized capital gains (losses) (in millions) Fixed maturity securities(1) $ (50.3 ) $ 22.1 $ (0.7 ) $ (28.9 ) Equity securities(2) (8.1 ) 17.6 9.5 Mortgage loans on real estate(3) (12.5 ) (12.5 ) Derivatives (101.4 ) (101.4 ) Other(4) (13.0 ) 35.9 5.6 28.5 Total $ (83.9 ) $ 75.6 $ (96.5 ) $ (104.8 ) (1)Impairments include $60.6 million of impairment losses and $15.8 million in recoveries on the sale of previously impaired assets. Credit losses include $13.4 million in gains and $18.9 million in losses related to credit triggered sales. Other net realized gains (losses) includes gross realized gains of $31.2 million and gross realized losses of $9.1 million. (2)Impairments include $8.1 million of impairment losses. Other net realized gains (losses) includes gross realized gains of $21.5 million and gross realized losses of $3.9 million. (3)Impairments include $22.4 million in realized losses due to sale, foreclosure, or direct write down of mortgage loans, a $2.1 million recovery on a previously impaired commercial mortgage, a $6.9 million decrease in loan specific reserves, and a $1.3 million decrease in the general commercial mortgage valuation allowance. (4)Other net realized gains (losses) includes $42.3 million in mark to market and realized gains on seed money. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $103.7 million, or 2%, to $4,959.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $4,855.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The increase was primarily due to a $93.7 million increase from the International Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily due to an increase in Chile related to higher reserve expenses due to the strengthening of the Chilean peso versus the U.S. dollar and higher sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies in 2004 following a year of decreased sales due to market contraction. Dividends to policyholders decreased $11.2 million, or 4%, to $296.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $307.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The decrease was due to a $9.2 million decrease from the Life and Health Insurance segment, resulting from changes in the individual life insurance dividend scale and a decrease in the individual life insurance dividend interest crediting rates due to a declining interest rate environment. Operating expenses increased $167.2 million, or 8%, to $2,165.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $1,998.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The increase was primarily due to a $98.4 million increase from the Life and Health Insurance segment primarily resulting from the acquisition of the Molloy Companies in 2004, increased DPAC amortization, and growth in our specialty benefits business. The increase also reflected a $68.5 million increase from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily reflecting an increase in amortization of DPAC in 2004 and an increase in non deferrable expenses. Income taxes increased $2.6 million, or 1%, to $178.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $175.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The effective income tax rate was 20% for the year ended December 31, 2004, and 21% for the year ended December 31, 2003. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2004 was lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35% primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received, 2004 tax credits on our investment in a synthetic fuel production facility, and interest exclusion from taxable income. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2003 was lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35% primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received and a favorable settlement of an IRS audit issue. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of income from discontinued operations and the cumulative effect of accounting changes, net of related income taxes, net income increased $79.3 million, or 11% to $825.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $746.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The income from discontinued operations was related to our sale of Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc., our Argentine companies, certain real estate properties previously held for investment purposes and a change in the estimated loss on disposal of BT Financial Group in 2003. The cumulative effect of accounting changes were related to our implementation of SOP 03 1 in 2004 and our implementation of FASB Interpretation No. 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities ("FIN 46") in 2003. 43 Results of Operations by Segment We use segment operating earnings, which exclude the effect of net realized/unrealized capital gains and losses, as adjusted, and other after tax adjustments, for goal setting, determining employee compensation, and evaluating performance on a basis comparable to that used by securities analysts. Segment operating earnings are determined by adjusting U.S. GAAP net income available to common stockholders for net realized/unrealized capital gains and losses, as adjusted, and other after tax adjustments we believe are not indicative of overall operating trends. Note that after tax adjustments have occurred in the past and could recur in future reporting periods. While these items may be significant components in understanding and assessing our consolidated financial performance, we believe the presentation of segment operating earnings enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting earnings attributable to the normal, ongoing operations of our businesses. The following table presents segment information as of or for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003: As of or for year ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 (in millions) Operating revenues by segment U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation $ 4,099.2 $ 3,741.9 $ 3,622.4 International Asset Management and Accumulation 604.5 518.4 399.5 Life and Health Insurance 4,387.5 4,181.3 4,014.3 Corporate and Other(1) (59.1 ) (23.0 ) 26.8 Total segment operating revenues 9,032.1 8,418.6 8,063.0 Add: Net realized/unrealized capital losses, including recognition of front end fee revenues and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues(2) (22.2 ) (114.9 ) (76.3 ) Subtract: Operating revenues from discontinued real estate 2.2 2.5 4.0 Total revenue per consolidated statements of operations $ 9,007.7 $ 8,301.2 $ 7,982.7 Operating earnings (loss) by segment, net of related income taxes: U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation $ 538.4 $ 499.0 $ 422.6 International Asset Management and Accumulation 71.0 40.3 34.5 Life and Health Insurance 274.4 256.2 241.2 Mortgage Banking(3) (10.3 ) (18.1 ) Corporate and Other (21.4 ) (20.4 ) (12.5 ) Total segment operating earnings, net of related income taxes 862.4 764.8 667.7 Net realized/unrealized capital losses, as adjusted(2) (20.6 ) (62.3 ) (49.3 ) Other after tax adjustments(4) 59.5 123.1 127.9 Net income available to common stockholders per consolidated statements of operations $ 901.3 $ 825.6 $ 746.3 Assets by segment: U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation(5) $ 103,506.1 $ 94,394.6 $ 83,904.8 International Asset Management and Accumulation 6,856.2 3,642.0 3,011.4 Life and Health Insurance 14,080.2 13,185.4 12,171.8 Mortgage Banking 5,558.8 Corporate and Other(6) 2,592.9 2,576.1 3,107.6 Total consolidated assets $ 127,035.4 $ 113,798.1 $ 107,754.4 (1)Includes inter segment eliminations primarily related to internal investment management fee revenues and commission fee revenues paid to U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation agents for selling Life and Health Insurance segment insurance products. (2)In addition to sales activity and other than temporary impairments, net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses) include unrealized gains (losses) on mark to market changes in certain seed money investments and investments classified as trading securities, as well as unrealized gains (losses) on certain derivatives. Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses), as adjusted, are net of income taxes, net realized capital gains and losses distributed, minority interest capital gains and losses, related changes in the amortization pattern of deferred policy acquisition and sales 44 inducement costs, recognition of front end fee revenues for sales charges on pension products and services and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 (in millions) Net realized/unrealized capital losses $ (11.2 ) $ (104.8 ) $ (63.2 ) Certain market value adjustments to fee revenues (12.1 ) (8.0 ) (17.7 ) Recognition of front end fee revenues 1.1 (2.1 ) 4.6 Net realized/unrealized capital losses, including recognition of front end fee revenues and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues (22.2 ) (114.9 ) (76.3 ) Amortization of deferred policy acquisition and sales inducement costs related to net realized capital gains (losses) (0.7 ) 6.2 5.1 Capital gains distributed (5.8 ) (4.4 ) (3.3 ) Minority interest capital gains (2.5 ) (0.3 ) (0.1 ) Net realized/unrealized capital losses, including recognition of front end fee revenues and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues, net of related amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and sales inducement costs, capital gains distributed, and minority interest capital gains (31.2 ) (113.4 ) (74.6 ) Income tax effect 10.6 51.1 25.3 Net realized/unrealized capital losses, as adjusted $ (20.6 ) $ (62.3 ) $ (49.3 ) (3)Corporate overhead allocated to our Mortgage Banking segment does not qualify for discontinued operations treatment under SFAS 144 and was included in our results of continuing operations and segment operating earnings prior to July 1, 2004. (4)For the year ended December 31, 2005, other after tax adjustments of $59.5 million included (1) the positive effects of: (a) a release of income tax reserves related to IRS tax matters ($33.8 million); (b) gains on sales of real estate properties that qualify for discontinued operations treatment under SFAS 144 ($22.3 million) and (c) a change in the estimated loss on disposal of BT Financial Group ($8.4 million) and (2) the negative effect of a change in the estimated gain on disposal of Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. ($5.0 million). For the year ended December 31, 2004, other after tax adjustments of $123.1 million included (1) the positive effects of: (a) discontinued operations related to the sale of Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. ($118.8 million) and (b) discontinued operations related to the sale of our Argentine companies ($10.0 million) and (2) the negative effect of a cumulative effect of accounting change related to the implementation of SOP 03 1 ($5.7 million). For the year ended December 31, 2003, other after tax adjustments of $127.9 million included (1) the positive effects of: (a) income from discontinued operations related to the sale of Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. ($82.5 million); (b) a decrease in income tax reserves established for contested IRS tax audit matters ($28.9 million) and (c) a change in the estimated loss on disposal of BT Financial Group ($21.8 million) and (2) the negative effect of: (a) a cumulative effect of accounting change related to the implementation of FIN 46 ($3.4 million) and (b) a loss from discontinued operations related to the sale of our Argentine companies ($1.9 million). (5)U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation separate account assets include shares of the Principal Financial Group stock allocated to a separate account, a result of our demutualization. The value of the separate account was $726.6 million, $782.8 million, and $833.9 million at December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. Changes in the fair value of the separate account are reflected in both separate account assets and separate account liabilities. (6)Includes inter segment elimination amounts related to an internal line of credit, internally generated mortgage loans, and long term borrowings. The Corporate and Other segment managed a revolving line of credit used by other segments. The U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment and Life and Health Insurance segment reported mortgage loan assets issued for real estate joint ventures. These mortgage loans were reported as liabilities in the Corporate and Other segment. In prior years, the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment had provided a source of funding for the Mortgage Banking segments mortgage servicing rights. U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation Segment Asset Accumulation Trends Our sales of pension, institutional and other asset accumulation products and services in the U.S. have been affected by overall trends in the U.S. retirement services industry, as our customers rely less on defined benefit retirement plans, social security and other government programs. Continuing trends in the work environment include a more mobile workforce and the desire of employers to shift the market risk of retirement investments to employees by offering defined 45 contribution plans rather than defined benefit plans. The graying of the population and recent market volatility are also driving growing interest in products generating stable income during retirement. These trends are increasing the demand for defined contribution pension arrangements such as 401(k) plans, mutual funds, annuities and bank IRAs. The "baby boom" generation of U.S. workers has reached an age at which saving for retirement is critical and it continues to seek increased retirement savings using additional tax advantaged investment products for retirement. Considering these trends, asset accumulation account values increased as of December 31, 2005, primarily due to significant additional gross new deposits, solid performance of the equity markets and retention of assets from existing clients. The interest rate environment remained relatively low despite an increase in interest rates that was more pronounced at the shorter durations. The S&P 500 posted a 4.9% total return contributing to a strong increase in total account values and assets under management by the end of 2005. The following table provides a summary of U.S. Asset Accumulation account values as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003: As of U.S. Asset Accumulation Total account values (in billions) December 31, 2005 $ 120.3 December 31, 2004 108.6 December 31, 2003 91.8 Asset Management Trends Asset management services have been among the most profitable and rapidly growing sectors of the financial services industry, at both the retail and institutional level. We seek to take advantage of current trends, which indicate that both retail and institutional investors embrace specialization, providing increased fees to successful active managers with expertise in specialty and niche areas. We have experienced very good success in winning institutional asset management mandates and expect to see continued growth in this area. Our U.S. third party assets under management increased $11.7 billion during 2005. The following table provides a summary of Principal Global Investors affiliated and third party assets under management as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003: Principal Global Investors As of Affiliated assets under management Third party assets under management Total assets under management (in billions) December 31, 2005 $ 103.4 $ 41.1 $ 144.5 December 31, 2004 97.0 29.4 126.4 December 31, 2003 88.6 24.1 112.7 46  U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation Segment Summary Financial Data The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 (in millions) Operating Earnings Data: Operating revenues(1): Premiums and other considerations $ 455.2 $ 370.1 $ 420.0 Fees and other revenues 1,196.3 1,016.2 833.7 Net investment income 2,447.7 2,355.6 2,368.7 Total operating revenues 4,099.2 3,741.9 3,622.4 Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses, including dividends to policyholders 2,265.3 2,099.8 2,146.6 Operating expenses 1,133.3 994.5 923.4 Total expenses 3,398.6 3,094.3 3,070.0 Operating earnings before income taxes 700.6 647.6 552.4 Income taxes 162.2 148.6 129.8 Operating earnings 538.4 499.0 422.6 Net realized/unrealized capital losses, as adjusted (12.8 ) (97.1 ) (82.1 ) Other after tax adjustments (5.0 ) 9.5 U.S. GAAP Reported: Net income available to common stockholders $ 525.6 $ 396.9 $ 350.0 (1)Excludes net realized/unrealized capital losses and their impact on recognition of front end fee revenues and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 Premiums and other considerations increased $85.1 million, or 23%, to $455.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $370.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase primarily resulted from a $61.2 million increase in full service payout sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies, which are typically used to fund defined benefit plan terminations. The premium income received from these contracts fluctuates due to the variability in the number and size of pension plan terminations, the interest rate environment and the ability to attract new sales. In addition, individual fixed annuity premiums and other considerations increased $23.9 million due to increased sales from certain distribution channels and due to higher sales of larger sized contracts in 2005. Fees and other revenues increased $180.1 million, or 18%, to $1,196.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $1,016.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Full service accumulation fees and other revenues increased $104.0 million primarily due to continued strong net cash flow, modest performance in the equity markets and our acquisition of Principal Services Trust Company. Also contributing to the overall increase was a $69.4 million increase in Principal Global Investors fees and other revenues, which was primarily due to our acquisition of Columbus Circle, higher real estate transaction fees, an increase in assets under management and an increase in loans securitized in 2005. Net investment income increased $92.1 million, or 4%, to $2,447.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $2,355.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase reflects a $1,749.6 million, or 4%, increase in average invested assets and cash for the segment. The average annualized yield on invested assets and cash was 5.7% for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses, including dividends to policyholders, increased $165.5 million, or 8%, to $2,265.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $2,099.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase primarily resulted from a $73.4 million increase in our full service payout business as a result of increased sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies. Also contributing to the increase was a $68.5 million increase in investment only business due primarily to an increase in interest credited on this block of business stemming from higher account values. Partially offsetting the overall increase was a $32.3 million decrease in full service accumulation benefits, claims and settlement expenses primarily due to lower interest credited on our non participating deposit type business and to a lesser extent decreases in cost of interest credited on our participating block. Operating expenses increased $138.8 million, or 14%, to $1,133.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $994.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase primarily resulted from a $77.0 million increase 47 in full service accumulation operating expenses due to our acquisition of Principal Services Trust Company, an increase in compensation costs and an increase in amortization of DPAC in 2005. In addition, Principal Global Investors operating expenses increased $46.1 million primarily due to our acquisition of Columbus Circle, growth in existing operations and an increase in allocated expenses. Income taxes increased $13.6 million, or 9%, to $162.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $148.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The effective income tax rate for this segment was 23% for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. The effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, were lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35%, as a result of income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received and interest exclusion from taxable income. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings increased $39.4 million, or 8%, to $538.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $499.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Net realized/unrealized capital losses, as adjusted, decreased $84.3 million, or 87%, to $12.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $97.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease is due to fewer other than temporary impairments of fixed maturity securities including a $24.3 million recovery of previously impaired securities received as the result of a litigation settlement, fewer losses related to the mark to market of derivative activities, and gains versus losses on mortgage loans offset in part by losses versus gains on the sale of fixed maturity securities. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of other after tax adjustments for the year ended December 31, 2005, net income available to common stockholders increased $128.7 million, or 32%, to $525.6 million from $396.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. For the year ended December 31, 2004, net income available to common stockholders included the negative effect of other after tax adjustments totaling $5.0 million related to: (1) a loss from discontinued operations associated with the sale of Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. ($3.5 million) and (2) a cumulative effect of accounting change due to our implementation of SOP 03 1 ($1.5 million). Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2003 Premiums and other considerations decreased $49.9 million, or 12%, to $370.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $420.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The decrease primarily resulted from a $45.4 million decrease in full service payout sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies, which are typically used to fund defined benefit plan terminations. The premium income received from these contracts fluctuates due to the variability in the number and size of pension plan terminations, the interest rate environment and the ability to attract new sales. Fees and other revenues increased $182.5 million, or 22%, to $1,016.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $833.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. Full service accumulation fees and other revenue increased $132.4 million primarily due to an increase in fees from our separate accounts resulting from improvements in the equity markets and net cash flow, which have led to higher account values. Principal Global Investors fees and other revenues increased $34.0 million primarily due to increased revenue from commercial real estate business and an increase in assets under management, which resulted from improvements in the equity markets and net cash flow. Net investment income decreased $13.1 million, or 1%, to $2,355.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $2,368.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The decrease reflects a decrease in the average annualized yield on invested assets and cash, which was 5.7% for the year ended December 31, 2004, compared to 6.2% for the year ended December 31, 2003. This reflects lower yields on fixed maturity securities and commercial mortgages due in part to a lower interest rate environment. The decrease in net investment income due to a lower yield was partially offset by a $3,085.9 million, or 8%, increase in average invested assets and cash for the segment. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses, including dividends to policyholders, decreased $46.8 million, or 2%, to $2,099.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $2,146.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The decrease primarily resulted from a $43.1 million decrease in our full service payout business as a result of decreased sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies. Also contributing to the decrease was a $37.9 million decrease in full service accumulation business due primarily to a decrease in cost of interest credited on our non participating deposit type business and to a lesser extent decreases in cost of interest credited on our participating block. Partially offsetting the overall decrease was an increase of $28.0 million in our investment only business primarily due to an increase in cost of interest credited on this block of business as a result of an increase in account values. Operating expenses increased $71.1 million, or 8%, to $994.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $923.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The increase primarily resulted from a $57.8 million increase in our full service accumulation operating expenses due to an increase in amortization of DPAC in 2004 and an increase in non deferrable expenses. In addition, individual fixed annuity operating expenses increased $16.4 million due to strong growth in our block of fixed deferred annuity business. Income taxes increased $18.8 million, or 14%, to $148.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $129.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The effective income tax rate for this segment was 23% for the 48 years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. The effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, were lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35%, as a result of income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received and interest exclusion from taxable income. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings increased $76.4 million, or 18%, to $499.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $422.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. Net realized/unrealized capital losses, as adjusted, increased $15.0 million, or 18%, to $97.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $82.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The increase in net realized losses was primarily due to higher mark to market losses related to hedging activities, higher commercial mortgage loan losses and higher losses on the sale of real estate offset by fewer other than temporary declines in the value of certain fixed maturity securities and fewer losses related to credit loss sales of securities. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of other after tax adjustments for the year ended December 31, 2004, net income increased $46.9 million, or 13%, to $396.9 million from $350.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. For the year ended December 31, 2004, net income included the negative effect of other after tax adjustments totaling $5.0 million related to: (1) a loss from discontinued operations associated with the sale of Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. ($3.5 million) and (2) a cumulative effect of accounting change due to our implementation of SOP 03 1 ($1.5 million). For the year ended December 31, 2003, net income included the positive effect of other after tax adjustments totaling $9.5 million related to: (1) the positive effect of income from discontinued operations associated with the sale of Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. ($11.2 million) and (2) the negative effect of a cumulative effect of accounting change due to our implementation of FIN 46 ($1.7 million). International Asset Management and Accumulation Segment Asset Accumulation Trends Our international asset management and accumulation businesses focus on countries with a trend toward private sector defined contribution pension systems, including privatization of public retirement pension systems. With variations depending upon the specific country, we have targeted these markets for sales of retirement and related products and services, including defined contribution pension plans, annuities and long term mutual funds to businesses and individuals. In some of our international markets, we complement our sales of these products with sales of life insurance products. We have pursued our international strategy through a combination of start ups, acquisitions and joint ventures, which require infusions of capital consistent with our strategy of long term growth and profitability. The following table provides a summary of Principal International assets under management as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003: As of Principal International Total assets under management (in billions) December 31, 2005 $ 15.4 December 31, 2004 10.2 December 31, 2003 7.5 49 International Asset Management and Accumulation Segment Summary Financial Data The following table presents certain summary financial data of the International Asset Management and Accumulation segment for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 (in millions) Operating Earnings Data: Operating revenues(1): Premiums and other considerations $ 247.6 $ 241.0 $ 191.7 Fees and other revenues 109.2 85.9 70.4 Net investment income 247.7 191.5 137.4 Total operating revenues 604.5 518.4 399.5 Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses 409.3 357.3 263.7 Operating expenses 128.7 112.2 97.8 Total expenses 538.0 469.5 361.5 Operating earnings before income taxes 66.5 48.9 38.0 Income taxes (benefits) (4.5 ) 8.6 3.5 Operating earnings 71.0 40.3 34.5 Net realized/unrealized capital gains, as adjusted 8.1 17.3 4.8 Other after tax adjustments 6.7 19.9 U.S. GAAP Reported: Net income available to common stockholders $ 79.1 $ 64.3 $ 59.2 Other Data: Operating earnings: Principal International $ 71.0 $ 40.3 $ 34.5 BT Financial Group Net income: Principal International $ 79.1 $ 64.3 $ 37.4 BT Financial Group 21.8 (1)Excludes net realized/unrealized capital gains. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 Premiums and other considerations increased $6.6 million, or 3%, to $247.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $241.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. An increase of $18.4 million in Chile and Mexico was the result of the strengthening of the peso versus the U.S. dollar. Partially offsetting this increase was a decrease of $10.6 million in Chile due to decreased sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies. Fees and other revenues increased $23.3 million, or 27%, to $109.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $85.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. An increase of $15.3 million in Mexico was primarily due to a refinement of accrued fee income, improved net transfers of pension customers from competitors, and the strengthening of the peso versus the U.S. dollar. An increase of $3.4 million in India was a result of an increase in fees from PPIAC that began operations in February 2005 and an increase in fees from growth in assets under management. In addition, an increase of $3.3 million in Chile was primarily a result of an increase in mortgage loan servicing revenue, increased fees caused by growth in assets under management and the strengthening of the peso. Net investment income increased $56.2 million, or 29%, to $247.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $191.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $473.5 million, or 22%, in average invested assets and cash, excluding our equity investments in subsidiaries. In addition, the increase was related to an increase in the annualized yield on average invested assets and cash, excluding our equity investments in subsidiaries, which was 8.5% for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 8.1% for the year ended December 31, 2004. 50  Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $52.0 million, or 15%, to $409.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $357.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. An increase of $54.5 million in Chile was the result of the strengthening of the peso versus the U.S. dollar and higher interest credited to customers partially offset by a lower change in reserves due to a decrease in sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies in 2005. Operating expenses increased $16.5 million, or 15%, to $128.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $112.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. An increase of $4.3 million in Chile and Mexico was the result of the strengthening of the peso versus the U.S. dollar. In addition, an increase of $3.0 million in Mexico was due to increased marketing efforts and asset retention training for agents and employees. Furthermore, an increase of $2.2 million in Chile was due to the impact of an impairment of the value of business acquired ("VOBA") stemming from declining interest rates. An increase of $2.3 million in India was due to higher compensation costs in the asset management company coupled with costs from PPIAC, which started operations in February 2005. An increase of $2.1 million in Hong Kong was primarily due to increased costs related to consolidation of our mutual fund products, marketing costs, and compensation costs as well as DPAC unlocking. Income taxes decreased $13.1 million to an income tax benefit of $4.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from income tax expense of $8.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. A decrease of $8.9 million in Japan was primarily due to a tax benefit associated with the liquidation of the business in 2005. A decrease of $7.3 million at corporate headquarters was due to the benefit from the American Jobs Creation Act in 2005 and foreign dividend activity that generated tax expense in 2004. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings increased $30.7 million, or 76%, to $71.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $40.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Net realized/unrealized capital gains, as adjusted, decreased $9.2 million, or 53%, to $8.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $17.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease was primarily related to a $4.7 million decrease in Chile due to lower realized gains on derivatives that are held to more effectively match the invested asset portfolio to our policyholder liability risks. In addition, a decrease of $2.4 million in India related to a realized gain in 2004 on recovery of a previously impaired debt security. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of other after tax adjustments, net income available to common stockholders increased $14.8 million, or 23%, to $79.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $64.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. For the year ended December 31, 2004, net income included the positive effect of other after tax adjustments totaling $6.7 million, related to: (1) the positive effect of income from discontinued operations related to the sale of our Argentine companies ($10.0 million) and (2) the negative effect of cumulative effect of an accounting change related to the implementation of SOP 03 1 ($3.3 million). Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2003 Premiums and other considerations increased $49.3 million, or 26%, to $241.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $191.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. An increase of $45.5 million in Chile was primarily a result of the strengthening of the Chilean peso versus the U.S. dollar and higher sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies in 2004 following a year of decreased sales due to market contraction. Fees and other revenues increased $15.5 million, or 22%, to $85.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $70.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. An increase of $6.0 million in Hong Kong was a result of an increase in assets under management primarily due to the acquisition of Dao Heng Fund Management in 2004. An increase of $4.6 million in Mexico was primarily a result of an increase in the number of retirement plan participants due to the acquisition of AFORE Tepeyac in February 2003 and the acquisition of Principal Genera, S.A. de C.V., Operadora de Fondos de Inversi&oacute;n ("Genera") in July 2003. In addition, an increase of $3.5 million in India was primarily a result of an increase in assets under management ("AUM") caused by record net customer cash flows and accounting for Principal PNB Asset Management Company using the full consolidation method of accounting due to our majority ownership beginning third quarter 2003; prior to third quarter 2003, results were reported using equity method of accounting. Net investment income increased $54.1 million, or 39%, to $191.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $137.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The increase was primarily due to a $466.8 million, or 28%, increase in average invested assets and cash, excluding our equity investment in subsidiaries. In addition, the increase was related to an increase in the annualized yield on average invested assets and cash, excluding our equity investment in subsidiaries, which was 8.1% for the year ended December 31, 2004, compared to 7.3% for the year ended December 31, 2003. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $93.6 million, or 35%, to $357.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $263.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. An $84.6 million increase in Chile was primarily a result of higher reserve expenses due to the strengthening of the Chilean peso versus the U.S. dollar and higher sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies in 2004 following a year of decreased sales due to market contraction. Operating expenses increased $14.4 million, or 15%, to $112.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $97.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. An increase of $8.7 million in Mexico was primarily due to DPAC 51 and VOBA unlocking, increased compensation expenses, higher postage and legal expenses to introduce a second investment option for our Mexico AFORE customers and the acquisition of Genera in July 2003. In addition, an increase of $3.8 million in Hong Kong was primarily a result of increased marketing efforts, compensation costs and higher investment management fees caused by an increase in assets under management due to the acquisition of Dao Heng Fund Management in 2004. Income tax expense increased $5.1 million, to $8.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $3.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. An increase of $3.2 million was primarily related to a planned 2005 dividend from Mexico. In addition, the increase was a result of an increase related to our Brazilian equity method investment. These increases are partially offset as a result of enacted tax rate reductions in Mexico. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings increased $5.8 million, or 17%, to $40.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $34.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. Net realized/unrealized capital gains, as adjusted, increased $12.5 million, to $17.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $4.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. An increase of $5.5 million in Chile was primarily due to a change in the fair value of non hedged derivatives. An increase of $4.3 million in Mexico was primarily due to realized gains on equity securities while restructuring our investment portfolios from equity securities to fixed income securities. In addition, an increase of $2.3 million in India was primarily due to a realized gain on recovery of a previously impaired debt security. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of other after tax adjustments, net income available to common stockholders increased $5.1 million, or 9%, to $64.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $59.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. For the year ended December 31, 2004, net income available to common stockholders included the positive effect of other after tax adjustments totaling $6.7 million, related to: (1) the positive effect of income from discontinued operations related to the sale of our Argentine companies ($10.0 million) and (2) the negative effect of cumulative effect of an accounting change related to the implementation of SOP 03 1 ($3.3 million). For the year ended December 31, 2003, net income included the positive effect of other after tax adjustments totaling $19.9 million, related to: (1) the positive effect of the change in the estimated loss on disposal of BT Financial Group ($21.8 million) and (2) the negative effect of the loss from discontinued operations related to the sale of our Argentine companies ($1.9 million). Life and Health Insurance Segment Individual Life Insurance Trends Our life insurance premiums have been influenced by both economic and industry trends. In addition, we have shifted our marketing emphasis to universal and variable universal life insurance products from traditional life insurance products. Due to this shift in marketing emphasis, premiums related to our traditional life insurance products have declined, while fee revenues from our universal and variable universal life insurance products have grown. The following table provides a summary of our individual universal and variable universal life insurance fee revenues and our individual traditional life insurance premiums for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003: Individual life insurance Individual universal and variable universal life insurance Individual traditional life insurance For the year ended Fee revenues Premiums (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ 212.6 $ 645.2 December 31, 2004 182.8 675.8 December 31, 2003 140.7 710.9 The following table provides a summary of our individual life insurance policyholder liabilities as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003: Individual life insurance Individual universal and variable universal life insurance Individual traditional life insurance As of Policyholder liabilities(1) Policyholder liabilities (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ 3,493.8 $ 5,955.4 December 31, 2004 2,880.0 6,042.2 December 31, 2003 2,269.0 6,011.0 (1)Includes separate account liabilities for policies with variable investment options. 52 Health Insurance Trends The year 2005 saw good growth in group medical premium and fees and members due to improved pricing and market focus. While we continue to sell group medical business in 35 states plus the District of Columbia, we have sharpened our focus on 13 states. Premium revenue has grown due to both price and membership increases. The fee for service portion of our business had a drop in medical members and fees because of our competitive position in the market. Our fee for service offering is available in all 50 states plus the District of Columbia. Fees and members in the fee for service business were impacted by the acquisition of the Molloy Companies on January 2, 2004. These changes have impacted the premium and fee trend during the three year period illustrated below. Our health insurance premium and fees for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were as follows: Premium and fees For the year ended Group medical insurance Fee for service(1) (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ 1,676.5 $ 176.6 December 31, 2004 1,586.9 178.8 December 31, 2003 1,561.7 142.8 (1)We acquired the Molloy Companies on January 2, 2004, adding approximately $40 million in fee income. Our covered members as of December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003 were as follows: Covered medical members As of Group medical insurance Fee for service(1) (in thousands) December 31, 2005 620.1 861.5 December 31, 2004 574.8 986.6 December 31, 2003 596.4 790.1 (1)We acquired the Molloy Companies on January 2, 2004, adding about 198,000 fee for service members. Specialty Benefits Insurance Trends Premium and fee growth for our specialty benefits insurance business is being driven by growing sales and favorable retention. This has been a result of growing and more focused distribution supporting these product lines, increasing focus on voluntary/worksite, and the introduction of new products. The following table provides a summary of our specialty benefits insurance premium and fees for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004 and 2003: Premium and fees For the year ended Group dental and vision insurance Group life insurance Group disability insurance Individual disability insurance (in millions) December 31, 2005 $ 434.5 $ 259.9 $ 200.3 $ 130.8 December 31, 2004 383.2 239.1 170.1 113.3 December 31, 2003 352.2 216.8 140.0 102.5 53  Life and Health Insurance Segment Summary Financial Data The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the Life and Health Insurance segment for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 (in millions) Operating Earnings Data: Operating revenues(1): Premiums and other considerations $ 3,267.1 $ 3,096.6 $ 3,019.0 Fees and other revenues 444.3 421.9 338.9 Net investment income 676.1 662.8 656.4 Total operating revenues 4,387.5 4,181.3 4,014.3 Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses 2,620.2 2,514.7 2,457.7 Dividends to policyholders 288.5 291.8 301.0 Operating expenses 1,066.3 988.7 891.8 Total expenses 3,975.0 3,795.2 3,650.5 Operating earnings before income taxes 412.5 386.1 363.8 Income taxes 138.1 129.9 122.6 Operating earnings 274.4 256.2 241.2 Net realized/unrealized capital losses, as adjusted (2.3 ) (8.9 ) (16.6 ) Other after tax adjustments (0.9 ) U.S. GAAP Reported: Net income available to common stockholders $ 272.1 $ 246.4 $ 224.6 (1)Excludes net realized/unrealized capital losses. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 Premiums and other considerations increased $170.5 million, or 6%, to $3,267.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $3,096.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Specialty benefits insurance premiums increased $119.5 million primarily due to strong sales and steady retention. Health insurance premiums increased $94.9 million, primarily resulting from higher premium per member and an increase in average insured medical members. Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease of $43.9 million in individual life insurance premiums, primarily a result of the continuation of a shift in marketing emphasis to universal and variable universal life insurance products from traditional life insurance products and an increase in ceded reinsurance premium. Unlike traditional premium based products, individual universal and variable universal life insurance premiums are not reported as U.S. GAAP revenue. Fees and other revenues increased $22.4 million, or 5%, to $444.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $421.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Fee revenues from our individual life insurance business increased $30.0 million, primarily due to growth in our fee based universal and variable universal life insurance business. Fee revenues from our health insurance business decreased $7.9 million, primarily due to a decrease in average fee for service medical members. Net investment income increased $13.3 million, or 2%, to $676.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $662.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase primarily relates to a $518.4, or 5%, increase in average invested assets and cash for the segment. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in the average annualized yield on invested assets and cash, which was 6.2% for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 6.4% for the year ended December 31, 2004. This reflects lower yields on fixed maturity securities and commercial mortgages due in part to a lower interest rate environment. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $105.5 million, or 4%, to $2,620.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $2,514.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Health insurance benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $66.0 million primarily due to increases in claim costs per member and average members, even though loss ratios decreased. Likewise, despite lower loss ratios, specialty benefits insurance benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $58.9 million, primarily due to growth in the business. 54 Dividends to policyholders decreased $3.3 million, or 1%, to $288.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $291.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease is primarily related to a decrease in the individual life insurance dividend interest crediting rates resulting from a declining interest rate environment. Operating expenses increased $77.6 million, or 8%, to $1,066.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $988.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Specialty benefits insurance operating expenses increased $45.7 million due to growth in the business. Health insurance operating expenses increased $29.5 million, primarily due to growth in the insured medical and wellness businesses and additional salary and benefit related expenses. Income taxes increased $8.2 million, or 6%, to $138.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $129.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The effective income tax rate for the segment was 33% for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 34% for the year ended December 31, 2004. The effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, were lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35% primarily due to the interest exclusion from taxable income. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings increased $18.2 million, or 7%, to $274.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $256.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Net realized/unrealized capital losses, as adjusted, decreased $6.6 million, or 74%, to $2.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $8.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease is due to fewer other than temporary impairments of fixed maturity securities including a $7.4 million recovery of previously impaired securities received as the result of a litigation settlement offset in part by more losses related to the mark to market of derivative activities, a software impairment, and losses versus gains on the sale of fixed maturity securities. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of a 2004 other after tax adjustment, net income available to common stockholders increased $25.7 million, or 10%, to $272.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $246.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The other after tax adjustment for the year ended December 31, 2004, had a negative impact on net income of $0.9 million due to the cumulative effect of accounting change, a result of our implementation of SOP 03 1. Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2003 Premiums and other considerations increased $77.6 million, or 3%, to $3,096.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $3,019.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. Specialty benefits insurance premiums increased $93.1 million primarily due to strong sales and favorable retention. Health insurance premiums increased $24.6 million, primarily due to rate increases partially offset by the establishment of a premium refund accrual for pending litigation related to a business exited in the 1990s and by a decrease in average covered medical members. Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease of $40.1 million in individual life insurance premiums, primarily a result of a shift in marketing emphasis to universal and variable universal life insurance products from traditional life insurance products. Unlike traditional premium based products, individual universal and variable universal life insurance premiums are not reported as U.S. GAAP revenue. Fees and other revenues increased $83.0 million, or 24%, to $421.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $338.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. Fee revenues from our individual life insurance business increased $45.3 million, primarily due to strong sales growth of universal and variable universal life insurance products. Fee revenues from our health insurance business increased $36.6 million, primarily due to growth in our fee for service business resulting from our acquisition of the Molloy Companies effective January 2, 2004. Net investment income increased $6.4 million, or 1%, to $662.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $656.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The increase primarily relates to a $542.2, or 6%, increase in average invested assets and cash for the segment. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in the average annualized yield on invested assets and cash, which was 6.4% for the year ended December 31, 2004, compared to 6.7% for the year ended December 31, 2003. This reflects lower yields on invested assets due to a lower interest rate environment. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $57.0 million, or 2%, to $2,514.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $2,457.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. Specialty benefits insurance benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $52.2 million, primarily due to growth in the business; however, loss ratios generally improved over this period. Health insurance benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $34.9 million primarily due to increased claim costs per member. These increases were partially offset by a $30.1 million decrease in the individual life insurance benefits, claims and settlement expenses, primarily due to a slower increase in reserves as a result of the continuing shift to universal and variable universal life insurance products from traditional life insurance products and to lower death claims. Dividends to policyholders decreased $9.2 million, or 3%, to $291.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $301.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The decrease is primarily related to the dividend scale decrease effective in February 2003 and a decrease in the individual life insurance dividend interest crediting rates resulting from a declining interest rate environment. 55 Operating expenses increased $96.9 million, or 11%, to $988.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $891.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. Individual life insurance operating expenses increased $45.0 million primarily due to increased DPAC amortization resulting from the refinements made to the DPAC valuation models for the individual universal and variable universal life insurance and traditional life insurance businesses in 2003 which reduced DPAC amortization in 2003. Individual life insurance operating expenses also increased as a result of increases in sales. Health insurance operating expenses increased $28.4 million, primarily the result of the acquisition of the Molloy Companies partially offset by lower operating expenses on the insured medical business due to a reduction in members and lower premium taxes. Specialty benefits insurance operating expenses increased $23.5 million due to growth in the business. Income taxes increased $7.3 million, or 6%, to $129.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $122.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The effective income tax rate for the segment was 34% for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003. The effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, were lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35% primarily due to interest exclusion from taxable income. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings increased $15.0 million, or 6%, to $256.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $241.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. Net realized/unrealized capital losses, as adjusted, decreased $7.7 million, or 46%, to $8.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $16.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The decrease resulted from fewer other than temporary declines in the value of certain fixed maturity securities. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of an other after tax adjustment, net income available to common stockholders increased $21.8 million, or 10%, to $246.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $224.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. For the year ended December 31, 2004, net income available to common stockholders included the negative effect of an other after tax adjustment of $0.9 million due to a cumulative effect of accounting change, a result of our implementation of SOP 03 1. Corporate and Other Segment Corporate and Other Segment Summary Financial Data The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the Corporate and Other segment for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 (in millions) Operating Earnings Data: Operating Revenues(1): Total operating revenues $ (59.1 ) $ (23.0 ) $ 26.8 Expenses: Total expenses (6.9 ) 47.9 55.6 Operating loss before income taxes and preferred stock dividends (52.2 ) (70.9 ) (28.8 ) Income tax benefits (48.5 ) (50.5 ) (16.3 ) Preferred stock dividends 17.7 Operating loss (21.4 ) (20.4 ) (12.5 ) Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses), as adjusted (13.6 ) 26.4 44.6 Other after tax adjustments 64.5 37.2 U.S. GAAP Reported: Net income available to common stockholders $ 29.5 $ 6.0 $ 69.3 (1)Excludes net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses). Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 Total operating revenues decreased $36.1 million to a negative $59.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from a negative $23.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Net investment income decreased $21.5 million primarily due to the increase in investment expenses related to the acquisition of a significant variable interest in a coal based synthetic fuel production facility in June 2004. The increase in investment expense from this investment is more than offset by a decrease in income taxes due to Section 29 tax credits generated from fuel production. In addition, the decrease in total revenues was partially due to a decrease of $7.7 million in fee revenue for transitional services provided to CitiMortgage, Inc., in the prior year, related to the sale of Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc., which is mostly offset by a corresponding change in total expense. Furthermore, the decrease in total revenues was due to a $5.5 million increase in inter segment eliminations included in this segment, which was offset by a corresponding change in total expenses. 56  Total expenses decreased $54.8 million to a negative $6.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from a positive $47.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease in total expenses was partially due to a $23.0 million decrease in interest related to federal income tax audit activities as well as a $13.5 million decrease in interest related to the reduction of corporate debt. In addition, the decrease in total expenses was due to a $7.3 million decrease in transitional services provided to CitiMortgage, Inc., in the prior year, related to the sale of Principal Residential Mortgage, which is mostly offset in total revenue. A decrease in total expense of $7.2 million was related to a prior year prepayment penalty recognized on the redemption of our surplus notes due 2024. Furthermore, inter segment eliminations included in this segment increased $5.5 million, resulting in a decrease in total expenses. Income tax benefits decreased $2.0 million, or 4%, to $48.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $50.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in operating loss before income taxes and preferred stock dividends, a change in income tax reserves established for IRS tax matters, as well as a tax benefit associated with the sale of a foreign investment in 2004. Largely offsetting these decreases in income tax benefits are a full year of Section 29 tax credits from our investment in a synthetic fuel production facility. Preferred stock dividends were $17.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, with no corresponding activity for the year ended December 31, 2004. The preferred stock dividends were a result of issuing preferred stock in June 2005. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating loss increased $1.0 million, or 5%, to $21.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $20.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Net realized/unrealized capital losses, as adjusted, increased $40.0 million to $13.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $26.4 million net realized/unrealized gains for the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease was primarily due to less mark to market gains on certain seed money investments, increased losses on sales of invested assets, and the impairment of an equity partnership interest. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of other after tax adjustments, net income available to common stockholders increased $23.5 million to $29.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $6.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. For the year ended December 31, 2005, net income included the positive effect of other after tax adjustments totaling $64.5 million related to: (1) a decrease in income tax reserves and associated interest related to IRS tax matters ($42.2 million) and (2) gains on sales of real estate properties that qualify for discontinued operations treatment ($22.3 million). Year Ended December 31, 2004 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2003 Total operating revenues decreased $49.8 million to negative $23.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from a positive $26.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. Net investment income decreased $50.2 million largely due to a decrease in average annualized investment yields for the segment and unusually high mortgage prepayment income in the prior year. Contributing to the decline in yields is the increase in investment expenses related to the acquisition of a significant variable interest in a coal based synthetic fuel production facility in June 2004. The increase in investment expense from this investment is more than offset by a decrease in income taxes due to tax credits generated from the fuel production. In addition, the decrease in total revenues was partially due to a $8.2 million increase in inter segment eliminations included in this segment, which was offset by a corresponding change in total expenses. Partially offsetting the decrease in total revenue was an increase of $11.1 million in fee revenue for transitional services that are provided to CitiMortgage, Inc. on a temporary basis related to the sale of Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc., which is mostly offset by a corresponding change in total expense. Total expenses decreased $7.7 million, or 14%, to $47.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $55.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The decrease in total expenses was largely due to a $19.3 million decrease in interest expense related to the reduction in corporate debt. Inter segment eliminations included in this segment increased $8.2 million, resulting in a decrease in total expenses. The decrease in total expenses was offset by an increase of $10.8 million for transitional services that are provided to CitiMortgage, Inc. on a temporary basis related to the sale of Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc., which is mostly offset in total revenue. In addition, the decrease in total expenses was offset by an increase of $7.2 million related to a prepayment penalty recognized in 2004 on redemption of our surplus notes due 2024. Income tax benefits increased $34.2 million to $50.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $16.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The increase was primarily due to tax credits on our investment in a synthetic fuel production facility as well as an increase in pre tax operating loss. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating loss increased $7.9 million, or 63%, to $20.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $12.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. Net realized/unrealized capital gains, as adjusted, decreased $18.2 million, or 41%, to $26.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $44.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. The decrease was primarily due to less mark to market gains on certain seed money investments and the impact of foreign currency transactions gains and 57 losses. These losses were partially offset by gains on sales of invested assets in 2004 and fewer other than temporary declines in the value of certain fixed maturity securities. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of other after tax adjustments, net income available to common stockholders decreased $63.3 million, or 91%, to $6.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004, from $69.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2003. For the year ended December 31, 2003, net income included the positive effect of other after tax adjustments totaling $37.2 million related to: (1) a decrease in income tax reserves established for contested IRS tax audit matters ($28.9 million) and (2) the cumulative effect of accounting change, a result of our implementation of FIN 46 ($8.3 million). Liquidity and Capital Resources Our legal entity organizational structure has an impact on our ability to meet cash flow needs as an organization. Following is a simplified organizational structure. The Holding Companies: Principal Financial Group, Inc. and Principal Financial Services, Inc. Liquidity describes the ability of a company to generate sufficient cash flows to meet the cash requirements of business operations. Our parent holding company, Principal Financial Group, Inc., is a Delaware business corporation, whose assets primarily consist of the outstanding capital stock of its subsidiaries. As a holding company, Principal Financial Group Inc.s ability to meet cash requirements, including the payments of dividends on common stock and the repurchase of stock, substantially depends upon dividends from subsidiaries, primarily Principal Life. Dividends from Principal Life The payment of stockholder dividends by Principal Life to its parent company is limited by Iowa laws. Under Iowa laws, Principal Life may pay dividends only from the earned surplus arising from its business and must receive the prior approval of the Insurance Commissioner of the State of Iowa ("the Commissioner") to pay a stockholder dividend if such a stockholder dividend would exceed certain statutory limitations. The current statutory limitation is the greater of: 10% of Principal Lifes statutory policyholder surplus as of the previous year end; or the statutory net gain from operations from the previous calendar year. Iowa law gives the Commissioner discretion to disapprove requests for dividends in excess of these limits. Based on this limitation and 2005 statutory results, Principal Life could pay approximately $630.7 million in stockholder dividends in 2006 without exceeding the statutory limitation. Principal Life was able to pay approximately $591.1 million in statutory dividends in 2005 based on its 2004 statutory financial results without being subject to the restrictions on payment of extraordinary stockholder dividends. On February 28, 2006, Principal Life declared a common stock dividend to its parent company of up to $625.0 million, $425.0 million of which was accrued as of February 28, 2006. On November 2, 2005, Principal Life declared a dividend of up to $300.0 million. Total stockholder dividends paid by Principal Life to its parent company in 2005 were $200.0 million. On May 19, 2004, Principal Life declared a dividend of up to $1.2 billion. Total ordinary stockholder dividends paid by Principal Life to its parent company in 2004 were $494.0 million. In March 2004, Principal Life redeemed $200.0 million of its surplus notes at a cost of $207.2 million. Principal Life and the Commissioner have agreed that this $207.2 million will be applied against Principal Lifes 2004 ordinary dividend capacity. Principal Life requested and received permission from the Commissioner to pay an extraordinary dividend in the amount of $700.0 million, of which $630.0 million was paid as of December 31, 2004. 58 Shelf Registration Registration Statement. Although we generate adequate cash flow to meet the needs of our normal operations, periodically the need may arise to issue debt to fund internal expansion, acquisitions, investment opportunities and retirement of existing debt and equity. In December 2003, we filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which became effective on June 30, 2004. The shelf registration totals $3.0 billion, with the ability to issue debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, warrants, stock purchase contracts and stock purchase units of Principal Financial Group, Inc ("PFG") and trust preferred securities of three subsidiary trusts. If we issue additional securities, we intend to use the proceeds from the sale of the securities for general corporate purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures, investments in subsidiaries, share repurchase, acquisitions and refinancing of debt, including commercial paper and other short term indebtedness. Principal Financial Services, Inc. unconditionally guarantees our obligations with respect to one or more series of debt securities described in the shelf registration statement. Preferred Stock Issuances. On June 16, 2005, we issued 13.0 million shares of non cumulative perpetual preferred stock under our shelf registration for net proceeds of $542.0 million. Substantially all of the preferred securities proceeds were used to repurchase shares of outstanding common stock. Following our issuance of perpetual preferred stock, we now have the ability to issue up to $2.45 billion of debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, warrants, stock purchase contracts and stock purchase units of PFG and trust preferred securities of three subsidiary trusts, under the shelf registration. Preferred Stock Dividend Restrictions and Payments. The certificates of designations for the preferred stock restrict the declaration of preferred dividends if we fail to meet specified capital adequacy, net income or stockholders equity levels. As of December 31, 2005, we have no preferred dividend restrictions. On September 30, 2005, we paid a dividend of $9.4 million, equal to $1.59 per share on Series A non cumulative perpetual preferred stock and equal to $0.47 per share on Series B non cumulative perpetual preferred stock, to stockholders of record as of September 1, 2005. On December 30, 2005, we paid a dividend of $8.3 million, equal to $1.39 per share on Series A non cumulative perpetual preferred stock and equal to $0.41 per share on Series B non cumulative perpetual preferred stock, to stockholders of record as of December 15, 2005. Common Stock Issued and Treasury Stock Acquired Another source of liquidity is issuance of our common stock. Proceeds from the issuance of our common stock were $59.9 million and $41.2 million in 2005 and 2004, respectively. In 2005, we paid $182.2 million in dividends to common stockholders. We paid a dividend of $0.65 per share on December 16, 2005, to stockholders of record as of November 17, 2005. In 2004, we paid $166.5 million, or $0.55 per share, in dividends to common stockholders. Our Board of Directors has authorized various repurchase programs under which we are allowed to purchase shares of our outstanding common stock. Shares repurchased under these programs are accounted for as treasury stock, carried at cost and reflected as a reduction to stockholders equity. The repurchases are made in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions, from time to time, depending on market conditions. In November 2005, our Board of Directors authorized a repurchase program of up to $250.0 million of our outstanding common stock. As of December 31, 2005, no purchases have been made under this program. In June 2005, following our Board of Directors authorization of the repurchase of up to 15.0 million shares of our outstanding common stock, we entered into an accelerated stock repurchase agreement with a third party investment banker for approximately 13.7 million shares of our common stock with an initial payment of $542.3 million. This transaction was subject to a market pricing adjustment provision based on the volume weighted average market price over the execution period, which could be settled in shares or cash. On October 3, 2005, we elected to settle in cash. On November 10, 2005, the transaction was completed for an additional payment of $84.0 million. We do not intend to make further purchases under this program. In March 2005, our Board of Directors authorized a repurchase program of up to $250.0 million of our outstanding common stock. This program began after the completion of the May 2004 repurchase program, which authorized the repurchase of up to $700.0 million of our outstanding common stock. Under the May 2004 and March 2005 repurchase programs, we acquired 8.4 million shares in the open market at an aggregate cost of $325.0 million in 2005. Of that amount, $75.0 million was acquired under the May 2004 repurchase program and $250.0 million was acquired under the March 2005 repurchase program. The share repurchase program announced in March 2005 was completed in May 2005. Our Board of Directors authorized a repurchase program of up to $700.0 million of our outstanding common stock in May 2004, a repurchase program of up to $300.0 million of our outstanding common stock in May 2003 and a repurchase program of up to $300.0 million of our outstanding common stock in November 2002. We acquired 21.7 million and 15.0 million shares in the open market at an aggregate cost of $772.0 million and $453.0 million during the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, respectively. 59 Sources of liquidity also include facilities for short term and long term borrowing as needed, arranged through our intermediate holding company, Principal Financial Services Inc. ("PFSI"), and its subsidiaries. See "Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments" below. Principal Life Historically, the primary cash flow sources for Principal Life have been premiums from life and health insurance products, pension and annuity deposits, asset management fee revenues, administrative services fee revenues, income from investments, proceeds from the sales or maturity of investments, long term debt and short term borrowings. Cash outflows consist primarily of payment of benefits to policyholders and beneficiaries, income and other taxes, current operating expenses, payment of dividends to policyholders, payments in connection with investments acquired, payments made to acquire subsidiaries, payment of dividends to parent, and payments relating to policy and contract surrenders, withdrawals, policy loans, interest expense and repayment of short term borrowings and long term debt. Principal Life maintains investment strategies generally intended to provide adequate funds to pay benefits without forced sales of investments. Products having liabilities with longer lives, such as life insurance and full service payout pension products, are matched with assets having similar estimated lives such as mortgage loans, long term bonds and private placement bonds. Shorter term liabilities are matched with investments such as short and medium term fixed maturities. In addition, highly liquid, high quality short term investments are held to fund anticipated operating expenses, surrenders, withdrawals and development and maintenance expenses associated with new products and technologies. Our privately placed fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage loans and real estate investments are generally less liquid than our publicly traded fixed maturity securities. These asset classes represented approximately 40% and 42% of the value of our consolidated invested assets as of December 31, 2005 and 2004 respectively. See Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rate Risk" for a discussion of duration matching. Life insurance companies generally produce a positive cash flow from operations, as measured by the amount by which cash inflows are adequate to meet benefit obligations to policyholders and normal operating expenses as they are incurred. The remaining cash flow is generally used to increase the asset base to provide funds to meet the need for future policy benefit payments and for writing and acquiring new business. It is important to match the investment portfolio maturities to the cash flow demands of the type of annuity, investment or insurance product being provided. Principal Life continuously monitors benefits, surrenders and maturities to provide projections of future cash requirements. As part of this monitoring process, Principal Life performs cash flow testing of many of its assets and liabilities under various scenarios to evaluate the adequacy of reserves. In developing its investment strategy, Principal Life establishes a level of cash and securities which, combined with expected net cash inflows from operations, maturities of fixed maturity investments and principal payments on mortgage backed securities and commercial mortgage loans, are believed adequate to meet anticipated short term and long term benefit and expense payment obligations. There can be no assurance that future experience regarding benefits and surrenders will be similar to historic experience since withdrawal and surrender levels are influenced by such factors as the interest rate environment and the claims paying ability and financial strength ratings of Principal Life. Principal Life takes into account asset liability management considerations in the product development and design process. Contract terms of 98% of Principal Lifes universal and variable universal life insurance products as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, include surrender and withdrawal provisions which mitigate the risk of losses due to early withdrawals. These provisions generally do one or more of the following: limit the amount of penalty free withdrawals; limit the circumstances under which withdrawals are permitted; or assess a surrender charge or market value adjustment relating to the underlying assets. The market value adjustment feature in Principal Lifes fixed annuity products adjusts the surrender value of a contract in the event of surrender prior to the end of the contract period to protect Principal Life against losses due to higher interest rates at the time of surrender. Our GICs and funding agreements contain provisions limiting early surrenders, including penalties for early surrenders and minimum notice requirements. 60 The following table presents U.S. GAAP reserves for guaranteed investment contracts and funding agreements by withdrawal provisions as of December 31, 2005 and 2004: As of December 31, 2005 2004 (in millions) Book Value Out(1) Surrenderable: Book value out without surrender charge $ 3.7 $ 5.2 Book value out with surrender charge 2,189.0 1,701.8 Total surrenderable 2,192.7 1,707.0 Total book value out 2,192.7 1,707.0 Market Value Out(2) Less than 30 days notice 0.7 30 to 89 days notice 23.8 25.3 90 to 180 days notice 335.7 315.3 More than 180 days notice 3,591.8 3,926.3 No active surrender provision 252.3 250.9 Total market value out 4,203.6 4,518.5 Not puttable or surrenderable 18,037.3 17,844.1 Total GICs and funding agreements $ 24,433.6 $ 24,069.6 (1)Book Value Out: The amount equal to the sum of deposits less withdrawals with interest accrued at the contractual interest rate. (2)Market Value Out: The amount equal to the book value out plus a market value adjustment to adjust for changes in interest rates. International Asset Management and Accumulation Operations Our Brazilian, Hong Kong, Chilean, Indian, and Mexican operations produced positive cash flow from operations for the year ended December 31, 2005. For the years ended December 31, 2004 and 2003, our Chilean, Indian and Mexican operations produced positive cash flow from operations. These cash flows have been historically maintained at the local country level for strategic expansion purposes and local capital requirements. Our international operations have required infusions of capital primarily to fund acquisitions and to a lesser extent, to meet the cash outflow and capital requirements of certain operations. Our capital funding of these operations is consistent with our long term strategy to establish viable companies that can sustain future growth from internally generated sources. Based on reviews of our current capital needs and strategic opportunities within our foreign operations, we have repatriated a portion of the capital from certain countries in 2005. Sources and Uses of Cash of Consolidated Operations Activity, as reported in our consolidated statements of cash flows, provides relevant information regarding our sources and uses of cash. The following discussion of our operating, investing and financing portions of the cash flows excludes cash flows attributable to our discontinued operations, which were as follows: For the year ended December 31, Cash flows attributable to discontinued operations: 2005 2004 2003 (in millions) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ (1.2 ) $ (627.7 ) $ 2,592.3 Net cash used in investing activities (0.7 ) (473.7 ) (1,065.2 ) Net cash provided by (used in) financing activities 600.0 (1,335.1 ) Net cash provided by operating activities was $2,384.2 million, $2,262.8 million and $3,008.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. The increase in cash provided by operating activities in 2005 compared to 2004 is due to an increase in premiums and fees and other revenues received. This increase is partially offset by increased taxes paid in 2005, largely due to the 2005 payment of an Internal Revenue Service deficiency related to the examination for 1999 2001. The decrease in cash provided by our continuing operations in 2004 as compared to 2003 is primarily due to a decrease in mortgage escrow balances held in our banking operations that were closed out by the 61 purchaser (or acquirer) as a result of the sale of Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. to CitiMortgage, Inc., as well as an increase in the net acquisition of mortgage loans held for sale. These decreases were partially offset by the settlement of intercompany arrangements received as a result of the sale of Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. Net cash used in investing activities was $1,608.0 million, $3,184.6 million and $3,505.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. The decrease in cash used in 2005 for investing activities compared to 2004 is primarily due to a decrease in the net acquisitions of available for sale securities and mortgage loans. Offsetting this was the sale of subsidiaries, including the sale of Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. to CitiMortgage, Inc., in 2004, with no corresponding activity in 2005. The decrease in cash used in 2004 for investing activities compared to 2003 is due to cash received from the sale of subsidiaries, in addition to an increase in net sales of mortgage loans and real estate. Offsetting these was an increase in the net acquisition of available for sale securities in 2004 over 2003. Net cash provided by financing activities was $414.5 million, $182.8 million and $959.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2005, 2004, and 2003, respectively. The increase in cash provided by financing activities in 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to a preferred stock issuance in 2005, increases in short term borrowing as well as a reduction in long term debt repayments in the current year. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in net deposits of investment contracts, an increase in treasury stock acquisitions and the accelerated stock repurchase settlement. The decrease in cash provided by financing activities in 2004 compared to 2003 was primarily due to an increase in debt payments in 2004, an increase in treasury stock acquisitions as well as a decrease in bank deposits. This was partially offset by an increase in investment contract deposits, net of withdrawals. Given the historical cash flow of our subsidiaries and the financial results of these subsidiaries, we believe the cash flow from our consolidated operating activities over the next year will provide sufficient liquidity for our operations, as well as satisfy interest payments and any payments related to debt servicing. Impacts of Income Taxes The Internal Revenue Service (the "Service") has completed examinations of the U.S. consolidated federal income tax returns for 2001 and prior years. The Service is currently examining returns for 2002 and 2003. The Services completion of the examinations for the years 1999 2001 resulted in notices of deficiency dated December 29, 2004, and March 1, 2005. We paid the deficiencies (approximately $444.0 million for 1999 and 2000, and $1.3 million for 2001, including interest) in the first quarter of 2005 and plan to file claims for refund relating to the disputed adjustments. The majority of the deficiencies are attributable to the disallowance of carrybacks of capital losses, net operating losses and foreign tax credits arising in years after 2001. We expect the Service to allow some of the carrybacks within the next year upon completion of the audit of the returns for the years in which the losses and credits arose. The remainder of the deficiencies are attributable to both contested issues and adjustments that we have accepted. We believe that we have adequate defenses against, or sufficient provisions for, the contested issues, but final resolution of the contested issues could take several years while legal remedies are pursued. Consequently, we do not expect the ultimate resolution of issues in tax years 1999 2001 to have a material impact on our net income. Similarly, we believe there are adequate defenses against, or sufficient provisions for, any challenges that might arise in tax years subsequent to 2001. On October 22, 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the "Act") was signed into law. The Act includes a repatriation provision granting U.S. corporations a special deduction of 85% of certain qualifying dividends from their foreign subsidiaries. A company could elect to apply this provision to qualifying earnings that are repatriated in its 2005 tax year. Based on the interpretive guidance issued to date by the Service, we currently believe that we will elect to utilize this repatriation provision in our 2005 tax year. Although it is dependent on a number of factors, the amount that we are considering for application under this provision is approximately $27.0 million. Our current tax accrual reflects application of the provisions of the Act. Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges The ratio of earnings to fixed charges is a measure of our ability to cover fixed costs with current period earnings. A high ratio indicates that earnings are sufficiently covering committed expenses. The following table sets forth, for the years indicated, our ratios of: earnings to fixed charges before interest credited on investment products; and earnings to fixed charges. For the year ended December 31, 2005 2004 2003 2002 2001 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges before interest credited on investment products 11.1 9.5 7.5 4.5 3.2 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges 2.1 2.0 1.9 1.4 1.3 We calculate the ratio of "earnings to fixed charges before interest credited on investment products" by dividing the sum of income from continuing operations before income taxes (BT), interest expense (I), interest factor of rental expense (IF) less undistributed income from equity investees (E) by the sum of interest expense (I), interest factor of 62 rental expense (IF) and dividends on majority owned subsidiary redeemable preferred securities (non intercompany) (D). The formula for this ratio is: (BT+I+IF E)/(I+IF+D). We calculate the ratio of "earnings to fixed charges" by dividing the sum of income from continuing operations before income taxes (BT), interest expense (I), interest factor of rental expense (IF) less undistributed income from equity investees (E) and the addition of interest credited on investment products (IC) by interest expense (I), interest factor of rental expense (IF), dividends on majority owned subsidiary redeemable preferred securities (non intercompany) (D) and interest credited on investment products (IC). The formula for this calculation is: (BT+I+IF E+IC)/(I+IF+D+IC). "Interest credited on investment products" includes interest paid on guaranteed investment contracts, funding agreements and other investment only pension products. Similar to debt, these products have a total fixed return and a fixed maturity date. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments The following table presents payments due by period for long term contractual obligations as of December 31, 2005: Payments due in year ending Contractual Obligations(1) Outstanding at December 31, 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 and thereafter Balance Sheet: Contractholder funds(2) $ 33,612.1 $ 6,380.8 $ 8,189.8 $ 5,554.2 $ 13,487.3 Future policy benefits and claims(3) 16,825.5 1,042.5 1,291.2 1,157.4 13,334.4 Long term debt(4) 898.8 41.7 171.7 465.5 219.9 Certificates of deposit(5) 720.9 297.5 217.4 201.5 4.5 Other long term liabilities(6) 577.2 400.0 177.2 Off Balance Sheet: Long term debt interest 531.7 69.7 126.2 53.2 282.6 Operating leases(7) 165.5 48.5 60.5 29.5 27.0 Purchase obligations(8) 970.3 950.3 20.0 Total contractual obligations $ 54,302.0 $ 9,231.0 $ 10,076.8 $ 7,461.3 $ 27,532.9 (1)Excludes short term liabilities, other policyholder funds, taxes and short term debt as these are not long term and or not contractual in nature. Also excludes obligations under our pension and other postretirement benefit plans as benefit payments will be made under a funded plan and will not require company contributions or payments within a five year period. In addition, separate qccount liabilities are excluded. Separate account liabilities represent the fair market value of funds that are separately administered by the Company. Generally, the separate account contract owner, rather than the Company, bears the investment risk of these funds. The separate account liabilities are legally segregated and are not subject to claims that arise out of any other business of the Company. Net deposits, net investment income and realized and unrealized capital gains and losses on the separate accounts are not reflected in the consolidated statement of operations. The separate account obligations will be fully funded by cash flows from the separate account assets. (2)Includes GICs, funding agreements (described below), individual fixed annuities, universal life insurance, and other investment type contracts. Our guaranteed investment contracts and funding agreements contain provisions limiting early surrenders, which typically include penalties for early surrenders, minimum notice requirements or, in the case of funding agreements with survivor options, minimum pre death holding periods and specific maximum amounts. Funding agreements include those issued directly to nonqualified institutional investors, as well as to three separate programs where the funding agreements have been issued directly or indirectly to unconsolidated special purpose entities. Claims for principal and interest under funding agreements are afforded equal priority to claims of life insurance and annuity policyholders under insolvency provisions of Iowa Insurance Laws. We are authorized to issue up to $4.0 billion of funding agreements under a program established in 1998 to support the prospective issuance of medium term notes by an unaffiliated entity in non U.S. markets. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, $3,203.6 million and $3,867.0 million, respectively, of liabilities were being held with respect to the issuance outstanding under this program. In addition, we are authorized to issue up to $7.0 billion of funding agreements under a program established in 2001 to support the prospective issuance of medium term notes by an unaffiliated entity in both domestic and international markets. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, $4,744.5 million and $5,462.3 million, respectively, of 63 liabilities were being held with respect to the issuance outstanding under this program. We do not anticipate any new issuance activity under this program, given the March 2004 establishment of the SEC registered program described in the next paragraph and our December 2005 termination of the dealership agreement for that program. We are authorized to issue up to $4.0 billion of funding agreements under a program established in March 2004 to support the prospective issuance of medium term notes by unaffiliated entities in both domestic and international markets. Under this program, both the notes and the supporting funding agreements are registered with the SEC. As of December 31, 2005, $3,667.9 million of liabilities are being held with respect to the issuance outstanding under this program. In contrast with direct funding agreements, GIC issuances and the other two funding agreement backed medium term note programs described above, Principal Lifes payment obligations on each funding agreement issued under this SEC registered program are guaranteed by Principal Financial Group, Inc. This program was amended in February 2006 to authorize issuance of up to an additional $5.0 billion. The contractholder funds line item includes expected future obligations for universal life and other investment type contracts that are based on assumptions as to future premium, mortality, interest, lapse, and surrender experience. (3)Future policy benefits and claims reflect liabilities such as expected death claims, medical claims and disability claims on products that have insurance risk. In general, this line item represents the our expected future obligations based on assumptions for future premium, mortality, morbidity, lapse and surrender experience. (4)The following are included in long term debt: On November 3, 2005, Principal International de Chile S.A., a wholly owned indirect subsidiary, entered into long term borrowing agreements with two Chilean banks in the amount of US $93.9 million. This debt is denominated in Unidades de Formento ("UF"), a Chilean inflation indexed, peso denominated monetary unit. Of this amount, US $49.0 million of UF +4.59% notes and US $44.9 million of UF +4.93% notes mature on November 3, 2011. Interest on the notes is payable semi annually on May 3 and November 3 each year. The debt outstanding and interest expense will vary due to fluctuations in the Chilean peso to US dollar exchange rates and Chilean inflation. On August 25, 1999, Principal Financial Group (Australia) Holdings Pty. Limited, a wholly owned indirect subsidiary, issued $665.0 million of unsecured redeemable long term debt. Of this amount, $200.0 million of 7.95% notes matured on August 15, 2004, with the remaining $465.0 million in 8.2% notes due August 15, 2009. On December 28, 2001, all of the long term debt obligations of Principal Financial Group (Australia) Holdings Pty. Limited were assumed by its parent, Principal Financial Services, Inc. On March 10, 1994, Principal Life issued $300.0 million of surplus notes, including $200.0 million due March 1, 2024, at a 7.875% annual interest rate and the remaining $100.0 million due March 1, 2044, at an 8% annual interest rate. None of our affiliates hold any portion of the notes. Each payment of interest and principal on the notes, however, may be made only with the prior approval of the Commissioner and only to the extent that Principal Life has sufficient surplus earnings to make such payments. After receiving approval from the Commissioner, the surplus notes due March 1, 2024, were optionally redeemed by Principal Life on March 1, 2004, in whole at a redemption price of approximately 103.6% of par. Total cash paid for the surplus note redemption on March 1, 2004, was $207.2 million. Subject to Commissioner approval, the notes due March 1, 2044, may be redeemed at Principal Lifes election on or after March 1, 2014, in whole or in part at a redemption price of approximately 102.3% of par. The approximate 2.3% premium is scheduled to gradually diminish over the following ten years. These notes may be redeemed on or after March 1, 2024, at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount plus interest accrued to the date of redemption. Long term debt also includes $236.4 million of mortgages and other notes payable related to real estate developments. We, including certain subsidiaries, had $135.0 million in credit facilities as of December 31, 2005, with various financial institutions, in addition to obtaining loans with various lenders to finance these developments. Outstanding principal balances as of December 31, 2005, range from $0.3 million to $97.5 million per development with interest rates generally ranging from 5.5% to 8.6%. Outstanding principal balances as of December 31, 2004, range from $0.4 million to $98.7 million per development with interest rates generally ranging from 6.0% to 8.6%. Outstanding debt is secured by the underlying real estate properties, which were reported as real estate on our consolidated statements of financial position with a carrying value of $284.1 million and $298.7 million as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, respectively. (5)Certificates of deposit are reported as other liabilities on our consolidated statement of financial position. (6)Other long term liabilities include other liabilities reflected in the consolidated statement of financial position that are contractual, non cancelable and long term in nature. This line item excludes accruals and short term items in the amount of $2,415.4 million. (7)As a lessee, we lease office space, data processing equipment and office furniture and equipment under various operating leases. (8)Purchase obligations include material contracts where we have a non cancelable commitment to purchase goods and services in addition to commitments to originate loans and purchase investments. 64  Contractual Commitments In connection with our banking business, we make additional commitments to extend credit, which are agreements to lend to a customer as long as there is no violation of any conditions established in the contract. Commitments generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses and may require payment of a fee. A majority of these commitments are lines of credit and are expected to expire without being drawn upon. Therefore, the total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future cash funding requirements. We evaluate each customers creditworthiness on a case by case basis. The total commitments to fund loans were $117.5 million as of December 31, 2005. Short Term Debt The components of short term debt as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, are as follows: December 31, 2005 2004 (in millions) Commercial paper $ 349.9 $ 75.0 Other recourse short term debt 55.1 56.4 Non recourse short term debt 71.4 150.3 Total short term debt $ 476.4 $ 281.7 As of December 31, 2005, we had credit facilities with various financial institutions in an aggregate amount of $925.7 million. As of December 31, 2005 and 2004, we had $476.4 million and $281.7 million of outstanding borrowings related to our credit facilities, with $110.6 million and $221.3 million of assets pledged as support, respectively. Assets pledged consisted primarily of commercial mortgages and securities. Our credit facilities also include a $600.0 million back stop facility to provide 100% support for our commercial paper program, of which there were no outstanding balances as of December 31, 2005. The weighted average interest rates on short term borrowings as of December 31, 2005 and 2004, were 4.5% and 2.7%, respectively. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Variable Interest Entities. We have relationships with various types of special purpose entities and other entities where we have a variable interest as described in Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 4 Variable Interest Entities." We do not have a direct or contingent obligation related to our unconsolidated variable interest entities other than described below. Synthetic Fuel Production Facility. In June 2004, we acquired a significant variable interest in a coal based synthetic fuel production facility where we are not the primary beneficiary. Our minority ownership interest was acquired in exchange for consideration of $37.0 million, which is primarily comprised of a non recourse note payable for $36.0 million, as well as a commitment to fund our pro rata share of the operations. We have also agreed to make additional payments to the seller based on our pro rata allocation of the tax credits generated by the facility. The synthetic fuel produced at the facility through 2007 qualifies for tax credits pursuant to Section 29 of the Internal Revenue Code (currently credits are not available for fuel produced after 2007). Our obligation to support the entitys future operations is, therefore, limited to the tax benefit we expect to receive. Retained Interests in Securitized Assets. We, along with other contributors, sell commercial mortgage loans in securitization transactions to trusts. As these trusts are classified as a qualifying special purpose entity pursuant to the guidance of SFAS No. 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities A Replacement of FASB Statement 125, they are not required to be consolidated under the provisions of FIN 46R. We retain primary servicing responsibility and may retain other immaterial interests. We receive annual servicing fees approximating 0.01% of the assets we are servicing, which approximates cost. At December 31, 2005 and 2004, the fair values of retained interests related to the securitizations of commercial mortgage loans were $321.0 million and $304.3 million, respectively. The investors and the securitization entities have no recourse to our assets for failure of debtors to pay when due. The value of our retained interests is subject primarily to credit risk. Guarantees and Indemnifications. In the normal course of business, we have provided guarantees to third parties primarily related to a former subsidiary, joint ventures and industrial revenue bonds. These agreements generally expire from 2005 through 2019. The maximum exposure under these agreements as of December 31, 2005, was approximately $193.0 million; however, we believe the likelihood is remote that material payments will be required and therefore have not accrued for a liability on our consolidated statements of financial position. Should we be required to perform under these guarantees, we generally could recover a portion of the loss from third parties through recourse provisions included in agreements with such parties, the sale of assets held as collateral that can be liquidated in the event that performance 65 is required under the guarantees or other recourse generally available to us, minimizing the impact to net income. The fair value of such guarantees issued after January 1, 2003, was determined to be insignificant. In connection with the 2002 sale of BT Financial Group, we agreed to indemnify the purchaser, Westpac, for among other things, the costs associated with potential late filings made by BT Financial Group in New Zealand prior to Westpacs ownership, up to a maximum of A$250.0 million Australian dollars (approximately U.S. $184.0 million as of December 31, 2005). New Zealand securities regulations allow Australian issuers to issue their securities in New Zealand provided that certain documents are appropriately filed with the New Zealand Registrar of Companies. Specifically, the regulations require that any amendments to constitutions and compliance plans be filed in New Zealand. In April 2003, the New Zealand Securities Commission ("the Commission") opined that such late filings would result in certain New Zealand investors having a right to return of their investment plus interest at 10% per annum from the date of investment. This technical issue affected many in the industry. On April 15, 2004, the New Zealand government enacted legislation that will provide issuers, including BT Financial Group, the opportunity for retroactive relief from such late filing violations. The law allows issuers to apply for judicial validation of non compliant issuances resulting from late filings. The law further provides that judicial relief is mandatory and unconditional unless an investor was materially prejudiced by the late filing. Such judicial relief has been granted to BT Financial Group and Westpac with regard to the vast majority of affected investors. As a result, we do not believe that this matter will result in a material adverse effect on our business or financial position. It is possible, however, that it could have a material adverse effect on net income in a particular quarter or annual period. On December 24, 2004, Westpac lodged several warranty and indemnification claims related to the sale of BT Financial Group. Under the sale agreements, certain warranty claims were required to be lodged by December 31, 2004. The claims aggregate approximately A$50.0 million Australian dollars (approximately U.S. $37.0 million) with the majority of the claims (approximately A$45.0 million Australian dollars, or U.S. $33.0 million) related to fund pricing and accounting issues around a tax asset called future income tax benefit ("FITB"). FITB is an asset used in calculating unit pricing of funds. Westpac claims that BT Financial Group incorrectly accrued FITB assets in valuing asset portfolios of BT funds in Australia and New Zealand and that as a result fund values were overstated. We intend to vigorously defend against these claims. Although we cannot predict the outcome of this matter or reasonably estimate possible losses, we do not believe that it would result in a material adverse effect on our business or financial position. It is possible, however, that it could have a material adverse effect on net income in a particular quarter or annual period. We are also subject to various other indemnification obligations issued in conjunction with certain transactions, primarily the sale of BT Financial Group, Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc., and other divestitures, acquisitions and financing transactions whose terms range in duration and often are not explicitly defined. Certain portions of these indemnifications may be capped, while other portions are not subject to such limitations; therefore, the overall maximum amount of the obligation under the indemnifications cannot be reasonably estimated. While we are unable to estimate with certainty the ultimate legal and financial liability with respect to these indemnifications, we believe the likelihood is remote that material payments would be required under such indemnifications and therefore such indemnifications would not result in a material adverse effect on our business, financial position or net income. The fair value of such indemnifications issued after January 1, 2003, was determined to be insignificant. Investments We had total consolidated assets as of December 31, 2005, of $127.0 billion, of which $57.5 billion were invested assets. The rest of our total consolidated assets are comprised primarily of separate account assets for which we do not bear investment risk. Because we generally do not bear any investment risk on assets held in separate accounts, the discussion and financial information below does not include such assets. Of our invested assets, $54.4 billion were held by our U.S. operations and the remaining $3.1 billion were held by our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment. U.S. Investment Operations Our U.S. invested assets are managed by Principal Global Investors, a subsidiary of Principal Life. Our primary investment objective is to maximize after tax returns consistent with acceptable risk parameters. We seek to protect policyholders benefits by optimizing the risk/return relationship on an ongoing basis, through asset/liability matching, reducing the credit risk, avoiding high levels of investments that may be redeemed by the issuer, maintaining sufficiently liquid investments and avoiding undue asset concentrations through diversification. We are exposed to three primary sources of investment risk: credit risk, relating to the uncertainty associated with the continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments of principal and interest; interest rate risk, relating to the market price and or cash flow variability associated with changes in market yield curves; and equity risk, relating to adverse fluctuations in a particular common stock. 66 Our ability to manage credit risk is essential to our business and our profitability. We devote considerable resources to the credit analysis of each new investment. We manage credit risk through industry, issuer and asset class diversification. Our Investment Committee, appointed by our Board of Directors, is responsible for establishing all investment policies and approving or authorizing all investments, except the Executive Committee of the Board must approve any investment transaction exceeding $500.0 million. As of December 31, 2005, there are ten members on the Investment Committee, one of whom is a member of our Board of Directors. The remaining members are senior management members representing various areas of our company. We also seek to reduce call or prepayment risk arising from changes in interest rates in individual investments. We limit our exposure to investments that are prepayable without penalty prior to maturity at the option of the issuer, and we require additional yield on these investments to compensate for the risk that the issuer will exercise such option. We assess option risk in all investments we make and, when we take that risk, we price for it accordingly. Our Fixed Income Securities Committee, consisting of fixed income securities senior management members, approves the credit rating for the fixed maturity securities we purchase. Teams of security analysts organized by industry focus either on the public or private markets and analyze and monitor these investments. In addition, we have teams who specialize in residential mortgage backed securities, commercial mortgage backed securities, asset backed securities, and public below investment grade securities. We establish a credit reviewed list of approved public issuers to provide an efficient way for our portfolio managers to purchase liquid bonds for which credit review has already been completed. Issuers remain on the list for one year unless removed by our analysts. Our analysts monitor issuers on the list on a continuous basis with a formal review documented annually or more frequently if material events affect the issuer. The analysis includes both fundamental and technical factors. The fundamental analysis encompasses both quantitative and qualitative analysis of the issuer. The qualitative analysis includes an assessment of both accounting and management aggressiveness. In addition, technical indicators such as stock price volatility and credit default swap levels are monitored. Our Fixed Income Securities Committee also reviews private transactions on a continuous basis to assess the quality ratings of our privately placed investments. We regularly review our investments to determine whether we should re rate them, employing the following criteria: material declines in the issuers revenues or margins; significant management or organizational changes; significant uncertainty regarding the issuers industry; debt service coverage or cash flow ratios that fall below industry specific thresholds; violation of financial covenants; and other business factors that relate to the issuer. A dedicated risk management team is responsible for centralized monitoring of the commercial mortgage portfolio. We apply a variety of strategies to minimize credit risk in our commercial mortgage loan portfolio. When considering the origination of new commercial mortgage loans, we review the cash flow fundamentals of the property, make a physical assessment of the underlying security, conduct a comprehensive market analysis and compare against industry lending practices. We use a proprietary risk rating model to evaluate all new and a majority of existing loans within the portfolio. The proprietary risk model is designed to stress projected cash flows under simulated economic and market downturns. Our lending guidelines are designed to encourage 75% or less loan to value ratios and a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.2 times. We analyze investments outside of these guidelines based on cash flow quality, tenancy and other factors. The weighted average loan to value ratio at origination for brick and mortar commercial mortgages in our portfolio was 67% and the debt service coverage ratio at loan inception was 1.8 times as of December 31, 2005. We have limited exposure to equity risk in our common stock portfolio. Equity securities accounted for only 1% of our U.S. invested assets as of December 31, 2005. Our investment decisions and objectives are a function of the underlying risks and product profiles of each primary business operation. In addition, we diversify our product portfolio offerings to include products that contain features that will protect us against fluctuations in interest rates. Those features include adjustable crediting rates, policy surrender charges and market value adjustments on liquidations. For further information on our management of interest rate risk, see Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk". Overall Composition of U.S. Invested Assets U.S. invested assets as of December 31, 2005, were predominantly of high quality and broadly diversified across asset class, individual credit, industry and geographic location. Asset allocation is determined based on cash flow and the risk/return requirements of our products. As shown in the following table, the major categories of U.S. invested assets are fixed maturity securities and commercial mortgages. The remainder is invested in real estate, residential mortgage loans, 67 equity securities and other assets. In addition, policy loans are included in our invested assets. The following discussion analyzes the composition of U.S. invested assets, but excludes invested assets of the participating separate accounts. U.S. Invested Assets December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 Carrying Amount % of Total Carrying Amount % of Total ($ in millions) Fixed maturity securities: Public $ 27,826.3 51 % $ 26,477.1 49 % Private 12,289.4 23 12,749.6 24 Equity securities 764.0 1 725.9 1 Mortgage loans: Commercial 9,890.7 18 10,224.7 19 Residential 1,088.5 2 1,104.0 2 Real estate held for sale 133.8 136.1 Real estate held for investment 853.9 2 809.6 1 Policy loans 827.7 2 814.5 2 Other investments 755.3 1 1,339.7 2 Total invested assets 54,429.6 100 % 54,381.2 100 % Cash and cash equivalents 1,585.1 367.6 Total invested assets and cash $ 56,014.7 $ 54,748.8 U.S. Investment Results The following tables present the yield and investment income, excluding net realized/unrealized gains and losses for our U.S. invested assets. The annualized yield on U.S. invested assets and on cash and cash equivalents was 5.6% for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 5.7% for the year ended December 31, 2004. We calculate annualized yields using a simple average of asset classes at the beginning and end of the reporting period. U.S. Invested Assets Investment Income Yields by Asset Type For the year ended December 31, 2005 2004 Yield Amount Yield Amount ($ in millions) Fixed maturity securities 5.8 % $ 2,302.5 5.8 % $ 2,196.4 Equity securities 6.5 48.5 6.8 46.9 Mortgage loans commercial 6.6 668.0 6.9 681.5 Mortgage loans residential 4.7 51.9 4.2 49.9 Real estate 7.1 68.3 6.9 81.8 Policy loans 6.1 50.3 6.3 51.1 Cash and cash equivalents 3.3 32.1 3.5 25.9 Other investments 2.4 25.0 2.2 27.4 Total before investment expenses 5.8 3,246.6 5.9 3,160.9 Investment expenses 0.2 133.6 0.2 128.4 Net investment income 5.6 % $ 3,113.0 5.7 % $ 3,032.5 Fixed Maturity Securities Fixed maturity securities consist of short term investments, publicly traded debt securities, privately placed debt securities and redeemable preferred stock, and represented 74% and 73% of total U.S. invested assets as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. The fixed maturity securities portfolio was comprised, based on carrying amount, of 69% in publicly traded fixed maturity securities and 31% in privately placed fixed maturity securities as of December 31, 2005 and 67% in publicly traded fixed maturity securities and 33% in privately placed fixed maturity securities as of December 31, 2004. Included in the privately placed category as of December 31, 2005, and December 31, 68 2004, were $6.5 billion and $5.8 billion, respectively, of securities eligible for resale to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933. Fixed maturity securities were diversified by category of issuer as of December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004, as shown in the following table: U.S. Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities by Type of Issuer December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 Carrying Amount % of Total Carrying Amount % of Total ($ in millions) U.S. Government and agencies $ 555.5 1 % $ 274.2 1 % States and political subdivisions 1,283.4 3 947.0 2 Non U.S. governments 463.0 1 490.3 1 Corporate public 19,590.8 49 19,572.4 50 Corporate private 9,901.5 25 10,549.4 27 Residential pass through securities 1,526.0 4 1,536.2 4 Commercial mortgage backed securities 4,118.6 10 3,472.7 9 Residential collateralized mortgage obligations 752.5 2 652.4 2 Asset backed securities 1,924.4 5 1,732.1 4 Total fixed maturities $ 40,115.7 100 % $ 39,226.7 100 % We held $8,321.5 million of mortgage backed and asset backed securities as of December 31, 2005, and $7,393.4 million as of December 31, 2004. We believe that it is desirable to hold residential mortgage backed pass through securities due to their credit quality and liquidity as well as portfolio diversification characteristics. Our portfolio is comprised of GNMA, FNMA and FHLMC pass through securities. In addition, our residential collateralized mortgage obligation portfolio offers structural features that allow cash flows to be matched to our liabilities. Commercial mortgage backed securities provide high levels of credit protection, diversification, reduced event risk and enhanced liquidity. Commercial mortgage backed securities are predominantly comprised of rated large pool securitizations that are individually and collectively diverse by property type, borrower and geographic dispersion. We purchase asset backed securities ("ABS") to diversify the overall credit risks of the fixed maturity securities portfolio and to provide attractive returns. The principal risks in holding asset backed securities are structural and credit risks. Structural risks include the securitys priority in the issuers capital structure, the adequacy of and ability to realize proceeds from the collateral and the potential for prepayments. Credit risks involve issuer/servicer risk where collateral values can become impaired in the event of servicer credit deterioration. Our ABS portfolio is diversified both by type of asset and by issuer. We actively monitor holdings of asset backed securities to ensure that the risk profile of each security improves or remains consistent. Prepayments in the ABS portfolio are, in general, insensitive to changes in interest rates or are insulated to such changes by call protection features. In the event that we are subject to prepayment risk, we monitor the factors that impact the level of prepayment and prepayment speed for those asset backed securities. In addition, we diversify the risks of asset backed securities by holding a diverse class of securities, which limits our exposure to any one security. The international exposure in our U.S. fixed maturity securities totaled $7,467.8 million, or 19% of total fixed maturity securities, as of December 31, 2005, comprised of corporate and foreign government fixed maturity securities. Of the $7,467.8 million as of December 31, 2005, investments totaled $2,002.8 million in the United Kingdom, $1,914.4 million in the continental European Union, $921.3 million in Asia, $675.6 million in Australia, $522.0 million in South America, $335.1 million in Mexico and $75.0 million in Japan. The remaining $1,021.6 million is invested in 17 other countries. All international fixed maturity securities held by our U.S. operations are either denominated in U.S. dollars or have been swapped into U.S. dollar equivalents. Our international investments are analyzed internally by country and industry credit investment professionals. We control concentrations using issuer and country level exposure benchmarks, which are based on the credit quality of the issuer and the country. Our investment policy limits total international fixed maturity securities investments to 18% of total statutory general account assets with a 4% limit in emerging markets. Exposure to Canada is not included in our international exposure. As of December 31, 2005, our investments in Canada totaled $1,483.4 million. 69 The following tables present the amortized cost of our top ten exposures including approved counterparty exposure limits as of December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004. December 31, 2005 Amortized Cost (in millions) HSBC Holdings PLC(1) $ 381.6 American International Group Inc.(3) 330.7 Bank of America Corp.(3) 317.5 JP Morgan Chase & Co.(3) 316.3 Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC(3) 315.6 MBIA Inc.(2) 311.6 General Electric Co 247.5 Citigroup Inc.(3) 235.0 Banco Santander Central Hispano SA 227.4 AT&T Inc. 219.9 Total top ten exposures $ 2,903.1 (1)Includes a $238.2 million investment classified as an equity security for U.S. GAAP. The investment issuer engages in managing investment grade third party bond investments and HSBC paper. All non HSBC paper has the ultimate benefit of price support protection provided by HSBC Bank, PLC. Since Principal Life Insurance Company has the senior priority in the issuer, we believe many third party bonds could be liquidated to satisfy our claim. While we calculate our exposure on a gross basis, the value we attribute to the underlying collateral is $125.0 million. (2)MBIA Inc. exposure is predominately comprised of the guarantee of underlying securities that are rated "A " equivalent or better by the rating agencies on a stand alone basis. The MBIA wrap guarantees performance in the event of default of the underlying securities bringing the combined rating to AAA. (3)Includes approved counterparty limit. The actual and the stressed potential exposures are less than the approved limit. December 31, 2004 Amortized Cost (in millions) HSBC Holdings PLC(1) $ 446.2 Bank of America Corp.(3) 419.6 MBIA Inc.(2) 411.7 American International Group Inc.(3) 394.8 JP Morgan Chase & Co.(3) 321.2 General Electric Co 313.4 Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC(3) 296.6 Goldman Sachs Group Inc.(3) 285.5 Citigroup Inc.(3) 280.9 Verizon Communications Inc. 261.5 Total top ten exposures $ 3,431.4 (1)Includes a $238.3 million investment classified as an equity security for U.S. GAAP. The investment issuer engages in managing investment grade third party bond investments and HSBC paper. All non HSBC paper has the ultimate benefit of price support protection provided by HSBC Bank, PLC. Since Principal Life Insurance Company has senior priority in the issuer, we believe many third party bonds could be liquidated to satisfy our claim. While we calculate our exposure on a gross basis, the value we attribute to the underlying collateral is $125.0 million. (2)MBIA Inc. exposure is predominately comprised of the guarantee of underlying securities which are rated "A " equivalent or better by the rating agencies on a stand alone basis. The MBIA wrap guarantees performance in the event of a default of the underlying securities bringing the combined rating to AAA. (3)Includes approved counterparty limit. The actual and the stressed potential exposures are less than the approved limit. 70 Our top ten exposures were rated an "A" equivalent or better by the rating agencies as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004. As of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, no individual non government issuer represented more than 1% of U.S. invested assets. Valuation techniques for the fixed maturity securities portfolio vary by security type and the availability of market data. Pricing models and their underlying assumptions impact the amount and timing of unrealized gains and losses recognized, and the use of different pricing models or assumptions could produce different financial results. Interactive Data Corporation ("IDC") or direct broker quotes are our sources for external prices for our public bonds and those private placement securities that are actively traded in the secondary market. In cases where quoted market prices are not available, a matrix pricing valuation approach is used. Securities are grouped into pricing categories that vary by asset class, sector, rating, and average life. Each pricing category is assigned a risk spread based on studies of observable public market data or market clearing data from the investment professionals assigned to specific security classes. The expected cash flows of the security are then discounted back at the current Treasury curve plus the appropriate risk spread. Although the matrix valuation approach provides a fair valuation of each pricing category, the valuation of an individual security within each pricing category may actually be impacted by company specific factors. Certain market events that could impact the valuation of securities include issuer credit ratings, business climate, management changes, litigation, and government actions among others. The resulting prices are then reviewed by pricing analysts. All loans placed on the "watch list" are valued individually by the investment analysts or the analysts that focus on troubled securities ("Workout Group"). Although we believe our estimates reasonably reflect the fair value of those securities, the key assumptions about risk premiums, performance of underlying collateral (if any) and other factors involve significant assumptions and may not reflect those of an active market. To the extent that bonds have longer maturity dates, managements estimate of fair value may involve greater subjectivity since they involve judgment about events well into the future. Every month, there is a comprehensive review of all impaired securities and problem loans by a group consisting of the Chief Investment Officer, the Portfolio Managers, and the Workout Group. The valuation of impaired bonds for which there is no quoted price is typically based on the present value of the future cash flows expected to be received. If the company is likely to continue operations, the estimate of future cash flows is typically based on the expected operating cash flows of the company that are available to make payments of the bonds. If the company is likely to liquidate, the estimate of future cash flows is based on an estimate of the liquidation value of its net assets. The Securities Valuation Office ("SVO") of the NAIC evaluates most of the fixed maturity securities that we and other U.S. insurance companies hold. The SVO evaluates the bond investments of insurers for regulatory reporting purposes and assigns securities to one of six investment categories. The NAIC designations closely mirror the nationally recognized securities rating organizations credit ratings for marketable bonds. NAIC designations 1 and 2 include bonds considered investment grade by such rating organizations. Bonds are considered investment grade when rated "Baa3" or higher by Moodys, or "BBB " or higher by Standard & Poors. NAIC designations 3 through 6 are referred to as below investment grade. Bonds are considered below investment grade when rated "Ba1" or lower by Moodys, or "BB+" or lower by Standard & Poors. As of December 31, 2005, the percentage, based on estimated fair value, of total publicly traded and privately placed fixed maturity securities that were investment grade with an NAIC designation 1 or 2 was 95%. We also monitor the credit drift of our corporate fixed maturity securities portfolio. Credit drift is defined as the ratio of the percentage of rating downgrades, including defaults, divided by the percentage of rating upgrades. We measure credit drift once each fiscal year, assessing the changes in our internally developed credit ratings that have occurred during the year. Standard & Poors annual credit ratings drift ratio measures the credit rating change, within a specific year, of companies that have been assigned ratings by Standard & Poors. The annual internal credit drift ratio on corporate fixed maturity securities we held in our general account was a more favorable ratio at 0.56 times compared to the Standard & Poors drift ratio of 0.78 times, as of December 31, 2005. 71  The following table presents our total fixed maturity securities by NAIC designation and the equivalent ratings of the nationally recognized securities rating organizations as of December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004, as well as the percentage, based on estimated fair value, that each designation comprises: U.S. Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities by Credit Quality(1) December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 NAIC Rating Rating Agency Equivalent Amortized Cost Carrying Amount % of Total Carrying Amount Amortized Cost Carrying Amount % of Total Carrying Amount ($ in millions) 1 Aaa/Aa/A $ 21,593.3 $ 22,361.9 56 % $ 19,807.0 $ 20,979.9 54 % 2 Baa 14,978.4 15,590.7 39 14,939.9 16,012.2 41 3 Ba 1,701.7 1,801.6 4 1,555.9 1,698.7 4 4 B 258.5 271.2 1 323.4 332.3 1 5 Caa and lower 14.3 14.4 42.2 44.2 6 In or near default 76.2 75.9 160.2 159.4 Total fixed maturities $ 38,622.4 $ 40,115.7 100 % $ 36,828.6 $ 39,226.7 100 % (1)Includes 66 securities with an amortized cost of $637.4 million, gross gains of $12.0 million, gross losses of $3.4 million and a carrying amount of $646.0 million as of December 31, 2005, that are still pending a review and assignment of a rating by the SVO. Due to the timing of when fixed maturity securities are purchased, legal documents are filed, and the review by the SVO, there will always be securities in our portfolio that are unrated over a reporting period. In these instances, an equivalent rating is assigned based on our fixed income analysts assessment. We believe that our long term fixed maturity securities portfolio is well diversified among industry types and between publicly traded and privately placed securities. Each year we direct the majority of our net cash inflows into investment grade fixed maturity securities. Our current policy is to limit the percentage of cash flow invested in below investment grade assets to 7% of cash flow. As of December 31, 2005, we had invested 2.9% of new cash flow for the year in below investment grade assets. While the general account investment returns have improved due to the below investment grade asset class, we manage its growth strategically by limiting it to 10% of the total fixed maturity securities portfolios. We invest in privately placed fixed maturity securities to enhance the overall value of the portfolio, increase diversification and obtain higher yields than are possible with comparable quality public market securities. Generally, private placements provide broader access to management information, strengthened negotiated protective covenants, call protection features and, where applicable, a higher level of collateral. They are, however, generally not freely tradable because of restrictions imposed by federal and state securities laws and illiquid trading markets. 72 The following table shows the carrying amount of our corporate fixed maturity securities by Salomon industry category, as well as the percentage of the total corporate portfolio that each Salomon industry category comprises as of December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004. U.S. Invested Assets Corporate Fixed Maturity Securities by Salomon Industry December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 Carrying Amount % of Total Carrying Amount % of Total ($ in millions) Industry Class Finance Bank $ 3,451.0 12 % $ 3,644.0 12 % Finance Insurance 3,010.3 10 2,604.0 9 Finance Other 4,090.1 14 3,838.0 13 Industrial Consumer 1,067.2 4 975.0 3 Industrial Energy 2,718.4 9 2,755.8 9 Industrial Manufacturing 5,223.3 18 5,594.0 19 Industrial Other 106.4 135.1 1 Industrial Service 4,548.7 15 4,623.2 15 Industrial Transport 848.6 3 934.0 3 Utility Electric 2,568.6 9 3,052.4 10 Utility Other 47.9 56.3 Utility Telecom 1,811.8 6 1,910.0 6 Total $ 29,492.3 100 % $ 30,121.8 100 % We monitor any decline in the credit quality of fixed maturity securities through the designation of "problem securities", "potential problem securities" and "restructured securities". We define problem securities in our fixed maturity portfolio as securities: (i) as to which principal and or interest payments are in default or where default is perceived to be imminent in the near term, or (ii) issued by a company that went into bankruptcy subsequent to the acquisition of such securities. We define potential problem securities in our fixed maturity portfolio as securities included on an internal "watch list" for which management has concerns as to the ability of the issuer to comply with the present debt payment terms and which may result in the security becoming a problem or being restructured. The decision whether to classify a performing fixed maturity security as a potential problem involves significant subjective judgments by our management as to the likely future industry conditions and developments with respect to the issuer. We define restructured securities in our fixed maturity portfolio as securities where a concession has been granted to the borrower related to the borrowers financial difficulties that would not have otherwise been considered. We determine that restructures should occur in those instances where greater economic value will be realized under the new terms than through liquidation or other disposition and may involve a change in contractual cash flows. If at the time of restructure, the present value of the new future cash flows is less than the current cost of the asset being restructured, a realized capital loss is recorded in net income and a new cost basis is established. We have a process in place to identify securities that could potentially have a credit impairment that is other than temporary. This process involves monitoring market events that could impact issuers credit ratings, business climate, management changes, litigation and government actions, and other similar factors. This process also involves monitoring late payments, pricing levels, downgrades by rating agencies, key financial ratios, financial statements, revenue forecasts and cash flow projections as indicators of credit issues. Every month, a group of individuals including the Chief Investment Officer, our Portfolio Managers, members of our Workout Group, and representatives from Investment Accounting review all securities where market value is less than seventy five percent of amortized cost to determine whether losses should be recognized. The analysis focuses on each issuers ability to service its debts in a timely fashion and the length of time the security has been trading below cost. Formal documentation of the analysis and the companys decision is prepared and approved by management. We consider relevant facts and circumstances in evaluating whether the credit impairment of a security is other than temporary. Relevant facts and circumstances considered include: (1) the length of time the fair value has been below cost; (2) the financial position and access to capital of the issuer, including the current and future impact of any specific events; and (3) our ability and intent to hold the security to maturity or until it recovers in value. To the extent we determine that a security is deemed to be other than temporarily impaired, the difference between amortized cost and fair value would be charged to earnings. There are a number of significant risks and uncertainties inherent in the process of monitoring credit impairments and determining if an impairment is other than temporary. These risks and uncertainties include: (1) the risk that our 73 assessment of an issuers ability to meet all of its contractual obligations will change based on changes in the credit characteristics of that issuer, (2) the risk that the economic outlook will be worse than expected or have more of an impact on the issuer than anticipated, (3) the risk that our investment professionals are making decisions based on fraudulent or misstated information in the financial statements provided by issuers and (4) the risk that new information obtained by us or changes in other facts and circumstances lead us to change our intent to hold the security to maturity or until it recovers in value. Any of these situations could result in a charge to earnings in a future period. The net realized gain relating to other than temporary credit impairments of fixed maturity securities was $45.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Of the $74.0 million of realized gains, $52.1 million is due to a recovery related to previously impaired securities received as the result of a litigation settlement with the balance coming as recoveries on the sales of previously impaired securities. Offsetting this realized gain was $28.6 million of other than temporary credit impaired write downs. The single largest other than temporary credit impairment represented less than 0.1% of U.S. fixed maturity securities as of December 31, 2005. For the year ended December 31, 2005, we realized $62.1 million of gross losses upon disposal of bonds excluding hedging adjustments. Included in this $62.1 million is $30.8 million related to sales of thirty nine credit impaired and credit related names. Included in the remaining $31.3 million of losses is an $11.0 million loss related to a large investment that was called from us in September 2005. We generally intend to hold securities in unrealized loss positions until they mature or recover. However, we do sell bonds under certain circumstances such as when we have evidence of a significant deterioration in the issuers creditworthiness, when a change in regulatory requirements modifies what constitutes a permissible investment or the maximum level of investments held or when there is an increase in capital requirements or a change in risk weights of debt securities. Sales generate both gains and losses. The following tables present our fixed maturity securities available for sale by industry category and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses as of December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004. U.S. Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Industry Category December 31, 2005 Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Carrying Amount (in millions) Finance Bank $ 3,354.9 $ 110.6 $ 14.5 $ 3,451.0 Finance Insurance 2,915.0 111.3 16.0 3,010.3 Finance Other 3,932.5 181.5 23.9 4,090.1 Industrial Consumer 1,038.0 36.5 7.3 1,067.2 Industrial Energy 2,506.5 220.2 8.3 2,718.4 Industrial Manufacturing 5,060.9 201.4 39.0 5,223.3 Industrial Other 104.4 2.3 0.3 106.4 Industrial Service 4,369.6 204.4 25.3 4,548.7 Industrial Transport 795.1 57.0 3.5 848.6 Utility Electric 2,455.3 123.8 10.5 2,568.6 Utility Other 41.2 6.7 47.9 Utility Telecom 1,701.8 118.6 8.6 1,811.8 Total corporate securities 28,275.2 1,374.3 157.2 29,492.3 U.S. Government and agencies 557.9 1.8 4.2 555.5 States and political subdivisions 1,222.6 45.7 3.8 1,264.5 Non U.S. governments 416.2 47.2 0.4 463.0 Mortgage backed and other asset backed securities 8,045.5 267.8 77.9 8,235.4 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ 38,517.4 $ 1,736.8 $ 243.5 $ 40,010.7 74 U.S. Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Industry Category December 31, 2004 Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Carrying Amount (in millions) Finance Bank $ 3,467.0 $ 183.6 $ 6.6 $ 3,644.0 Finance Insurance 2,497.1 115.6 8.7 2,604.0 Finance Other 3,648.0 199.2 9.2 3,838.0 Industrial Consumer 916.1 60.7 1.8 975.0 Industrial Energy 2,504.9 259.4 8.5 2,755.8 Industrial Manufacturing 5,233.4 367.1 6.5 5,594.0 Industrial Other 127.4 7.9 0.2 135.1 Industrial Service 4,289.9 339.0 5.7 4,623.2 Industrial Transport 871.2 73.3 10.5 934.0 Utility Electric 2,852.6 203.0 3.2 3,052.4 Utility Other 48.9 7.4 56.3 Utility Telecom 1,742.5 170.3 2.8 1,910.0 Total corporate securities 28,199.0 1,986.5 63.7 30,121.8 U.S. Government and agencies 268.6 6.3 0.7 274.2 States and political subdivisions 894.1 53.6 0.7 947.0 Non U.S. governments 428.4 61.9 490.3 Mortgage backed and other asset backed securities 6,952.6 371.3 23.5 7,300.4 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ 36,742.7 $ 2,479.6 $ 88.6 $ 39,133.7 The total unrealized losses on our fixed maturity securities available for sale were $243.5 million and $88.6 million as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. Of the $243.5 million in gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2005, there were $2.1 million in losses attributed to securities scheduled to mature in one year or less, $58.0 million is attributed to securities scheduled to mature between one to five years, $103.8 million is attributed to securities scheduled to mature between five to ten years, $1.7 million is attributed to securities scheduled to mature after ten years, and $77.9 million is related to mortgage backed and other asset backed securities. The gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2005 were concentrated primarily in the Mortgage backed and other asset backed securities, Industrial Manufacturing, Industrial Services, and Financial Other sectors. The gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2004 were concentrated primarily in the Mortgage backed and other asset backed securities and Industrial Transportation sectors. 75  The following tables present our fixed maturity securities available for sale by investment grade and below investment grade and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses as of December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004. U.S. Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Quality December 31, 2005 Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Carrying Amount (in millions) Investment Grade: Public $ 25,638.9 $ 1,024.9 $ 164.3 $ 26,499.5 Private 10,827.8 584.5 64.2 11,348.1 Below Investment Grade: Public 1,263.4 54.4 9.9 1,307.9 Private 787.3 73.0 5.1 855.2 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ 38,517.4 $ 1,736.8 $ 243.5 $ 40,010.7 U.S. Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Quality December 31, 2004 Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Carrying Amount (in millions) Investment Grade: Public $ 23,634.9 $ 1,553.5 $ 36.8 $ 25,151.6 Private 11,026.1 753.2 31.8 11,747.5 Below Investment Grade: Public 1,239.2 93.1 6.7 1,325.6 Private 842.5 79.8 13.3 909.0 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ 36,742.7 $ 2,479.6 $ 88.6 $ 39,133.7 U.S. Invested Assets Unrealized Losses on Investment Grade Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Aging Category December 31, 2005 Public Private Total Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses (in millions) Three months or less $ 1,907.9 $ 11.3 $ 774.3 $ 6.3 $ 2,682.2 $ 17.6 Greater than three to six months 4,332.5 79.6 1,574.5 29.3 5,907.0 108.9 Greater than six to nine months 416.3 12.9 109.5 2.8 525.8 15.7 Greater than nine to twelve months 1,032.0 22.3 212.3 5.2 1,244.3 27.5 Greater than twelve to twenty four months 1,191.2 33.3 457.2 14.7 1,648.4 48.0 Greater than twenty four to thirty six months 118.5 4.8 161.8 5.9 280.3 10.7 Greater than thirty six months 1.4 0.1 1.4 0.1 Total fixed maturities, available for sale $ 8,999.8 $ 164.3 $ 3,289.6 $ 64.2 $ 12,289.4 $ 228.5 76 U.S. Invested Assets Unrealized Losses on Investment Grade Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Aging Category December 31, 2004 Public Private Total Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses (in millions) Three months or less $ 1,608.3 $ 9.4 $ 620.5 $ 4.7 $ 2,228.8 $ 14.1 Greater than three to six months 298.1 3.6 630.2 8.2 928.3 11.8 Greater than six to nine months 869.6 13.1 421.6 6.1 1,291.2 19.2 Greater than nine to twelve months 225.1 3.8 107.1 2.7 332.2 6.5 Greater than twelve to twenty four months 232.0 6.3 282.8 10.1 514.8 16.4 Greater than twenty four to thirty six months Greater than thirty six months 5.3 0.6 5.3 0.6 Total fixed maturities, available for sale $ 3,238.4 $ 36.8 $ 2,062.2 $ 31.8 $ 5,300.6 $ 68.6 U.S. Invested Assets Unrealized Losses on Below Investment Grade Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Aging Category December 31, 2005 Public Private Total Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses (in millions) Three months or less $ 121.9 $ 0.7 $ 55.8 $ 1.8 $ 177.7 $ 2.5 Greater than three to six months 81.9 4.7 36.4 0.8 118.3 5.5 Greater than six to nine months 50.8 0.8 36.8 1.2 87.6 2.0 Greater than nine to twelve months 49.2 1.9 18.4 0.5 67.6 2.4 Greater than twelve to twenty four months 36.9 1.2 8.5 0.3 45.4 1.5 Greater than twenty four to thirty six months 0.6 0.1 0.6 0.1 Greater than thirty six months 49.9 0.6 19.8 0.4 69.7 1.0 Total fixed maturities, available for sale $ 390.6 $ 9.9 $ 176.3 $ 5.1 $ 566.9 $ 15.0 U.S. Invested Assets Unrealized Losses on Below Investment Grade Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Aging Category December 31, 2004 Public Private Total Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses (in millions) Three months or less $ 3.4 $ 1.5 $ 50.4 $ 2.8 $ 53.8 $ 4.3 Greater than three to six months 0.9 0.1 0.9 0.1 Greater than six to nine months 16.6 0.3 16.6 0.3 Greater than nine to twelve months 39.4 0.6 39.4 0.6 Greater than twelve to twenty four months 6.2 1.0 6.2 1.0 Greater than twenty four to thirty six months 2.4 0.1 34.7 2.8 37.1 2.9 Greater than thirty six months 44.4 4.2 55.9 6.6 100.3 10.8 Total fixed maturities, available for sale $ 106.2 $ 6.7 $ 148.1 $ 13.3 $ 254.3 $ 20.0 77 Of total gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, $228.5 million and $68.6 million were related to investment grade securities, respectively. Gross unrealized losses related to below investment grade securities were $15.0 million and $20.0 million as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, respectively. The following tables present the carrying amount and gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity securities available for sale, where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more as of December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004. U.S. Invested Assets Unrealized Losses on Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Aging Category December 31, 2005 Problem, Potential Problem, and Restructured All Other Fixed Maturity Securities Total Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses (in millions) Three months or less $ $ $ 4.2 $ 2.1 $ 4.2 $ 2.1 Greater than three to six months Greater than six to nine months Greater than nine to twelve months Greater than twelve months Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ $ $ 4.2 $ 2.1 $ 4.2 $ 2.1 U.S. Invested Assets Unrealized Losses on Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Aging Category December 31, 2004 Problem, Potential Problem, and Restructured All Other Fixed Maturity Securities Total Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses (in millions) Three months or less $ 3.5 $ 2.7 $ 6.1 $ 1.5 $ 9.6 $ 4.2 Greater than three to six months Greater than six to nine months Greater than nine to twelve months Greater than twelve months 2.0 0.9 2.0 0.9 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ 5.5 $ 3.6 $ 6.1 $ 1.5 $ 11.6 $ 5.1 Gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity securities where the estimated fair value has been 20% or more below amortized cost were $2.1 million as of December 31, 2005 and $5.1 million as of December 31, 2004. There were no gross unrealized losses attributed to those securities considered to be "problem", "potential problem" or "restructured" as of December 31, 2005. The gross unrealized losses attributed to those securities considered to be "problem", "potential problem" or "restructured" were $3.6 million as of December 31, 2004. 78  The following table presents the total carrying amount of our fixed maturity portfolio, as well as its problem, potential problem and restructured fixed maturities for the periods indicated: U.S. Invested Assets Problem, Potential Problem and Restructured Fixed Maturities at Carrying Amount December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 ($ in millions) Total fixed maturity securities (public and private) $ 40,115.7 $ 39,226.7 Problem fixed maturity securities $ 42.0 $ 68.5 Potential problem fixed maturity securities 101.6 119.6 Restructured fixed maturity securities 10.4 Total problem, potential problem and restructured fixed maturity securities $ 143.6 $ 198.5 Total problem, potential problem and restructured fixed maturity securities as a percent of total fixed maturity securities 0% 1% Mortgage Loans Mortgage loans consist primarily of commercial mortgage loans on real estate. At December 31, 2005, commercial mortgage loans aggregated to $9,890.7 million. Commercial mortgage loans on real estate are generally reported at cost adjusted for amortization of premiums and accrual of discounts, computed using the interest method, and net of valuation allowances. Commercial mortgage loans held for sale are carried at the lower of cost or fair value, less cost to sell, and reported as mortgage loans in the statements of financial position. Commercial mortgages play an important role in our investment strategy by: providing strong risk adjusted relative value in comparison to other investment alternatives; enhancing total returns; and providing strategic portfolio diversification. As a result, we have focused on constructing a solid, high quality portfolio of mortgages. Our portfolio is generally comprised of mortgages with conservative loan to value ratios, high debt service coverages and general purpose property types with a strong credit tenancy. Our commercial loan portfolio consists of primarily non recourse, fixed rate mortgages on fully or near fully leased properties. The mortgage portfolio is comprised of general purpose industrial properties, manufacturing office properties and credit oriented retail properties. California accounted for 18% of our commercial mortgage loan portfolio as of December 31, 2005. We are, therefore, exposed to potential losses resulting from the risk of catastrophes, such as earthquakes, that may affect the region. Like other lenders, we generally do not require earthquake insurance for properties on which we make commercial mortgage loans. With respect to California properties, however, we obtain an engineering report specific to each property. The report assesses the buildings design specifications, whether it has been upgraded to meet seismic building codes and the maximum loss that is likely to result from a variety of different seismic events. We also obtain a report that assesses, by building and geographic fault lines, the amount of loss our commercial mortgage loan portfolio might suffer under a variety of seismic events. Our commercial loan portfolio is highly diversified by borrower. As of December 31, 2005, 38% of the U.S. commercial mortgage loan portfolio was comprised of mortgage loans with principal balances of less than $10.0 million. The total number of commercial mortgage loans outstanding as of December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004 was 1,309 and 1,318, respectively. The average loan size of our commercial mortgage portfolio was $7.6 million as of December 31, 2005. We actively monitor and manage our commercial mortgage loan portfolio. Substantially all loans within the portfolio are analyzed regularly and are internally rated, based on a proprietary risk rating cash flow model, in order to monitor the financial quality of these assets. Based on ongoing monitoring, mortgage loans with a likelihood of becoming delinquent are identified and placed on an internal "watch list". Among criteria which would indicate a potential problem are: imbalances in ratios of loan to value or contract rents to debt service, major tenant vacancies or bankruptcies, borrower sponsorship problems, late payments, delinquent taxes and loan relief/restructuring requests. We review our mortgage loan portfolio and analyze the need for a valuation allowance for any loan which is delinquent for 60 days or more, in process of foreclosure, restructured, on the "watch list", or which currently has a valuation allowance. We categorize loans, which are delinquent, loans in process of foreclosure, and loans to borrowers in 79 bankruptcy as "problem" loans. Potential problem loans are loans placed on an internal "watch list" for which management has concerns as to the ability of the borrower to comply with the present loan payment terms and which may result in the loan becoming a problem or being restructured. The decision whether to classify a performing loan as a potential problem involves significant subjective judgments by management as to the likely future economic conditions and developments with respect to the borrower. We categorize loans for which the original terms of the mortgages have been modified or for which interest or principal payments have been deferred as "restructured" loans. We also consider matured loans that are refinanced at below market rates as restructured. The valuation allowance for commercial mortgage loans includes a loan specific allowance for impaired loans and a provision for losses based on past loss experience believed to be adequate to absorb estimated probable credit losses. The changes in this valuation allowance are reported as a net realized/unrealized capital loss on our consolidated statements of operations. Commercial mortgage loans on real estate are considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to contractual terms of the loan agreement. When we determine that a loan is impaired, a valuation allowance is established or a direct write down of the loan is recorded for the difference between the carrying amount of the mortgage loan and the estimated value. Estimated value is based on either the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at the loans effective interest rate, the loans observable market price or fair value of the collateral. When a valuation allowance is established, subsequent recoveries are charged to the valuation allowance and subsequent losses may be charged to the valuation allowance or as a direct write down of the loan. The determination of the calculation and the adequacy of the mortgage loan loss provision based on past experience and mortgage impairments is subjective. Our periodic evaluation and assessment of the adequacy of the provision for losses and the need for mortgage impairments is based on known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrowers ability to repay, the estimated value of the underlying collateral, composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions, loss experience and other relevant factors. The current portfolio statistics and past loss experience produced a provision for the Principal Life general account totaling $30.6 million. The evaluation of our impaired loan component of the allowance is subjective, as it requires estimating the amounts and timing of future cash flows expected to be received on impaired loans. Our financial position is sensitive to changes in estimated cash flows from mortgages, the value of the collateral, and changes in the economic environment in general. Decreases in the valuation allowance aggregated to $9.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, and $7.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The following table represents our commercial mortgage valuation allowance for the periods indicated: U.S. Invested Assets Commercial Mortgage Valuation Allowance December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 ($ in millions) Beginning balance $ 42.4 $ 49.6 Provision 6.7 14.4 Release (15.9 ) (21.6 ) Ending balance $ 33.2 $ 42.4 Valuation allowance as % of carrying value before reserves 1% 1% 80 The following table presents the carrying amounts of problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages relative to the carrying amount of all commercial mortgages for the periods indicated: U.S. Invested Assets Problem, Potential Problem and Restructured Commercial Mortgages at Carrying Amount December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 ($ in millions) Total commercial mortgages $ 9,890.7 $ 10,224.7 Problem commercial mortgages(1) $ 10.4 $ 38.2 Potential problem commercial mortgages 10.2 51.2 Restructured commercial mortgages 65.1 59.3 Total problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages $ 85.7 $ 148.7 Total problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages as a percent of total commercial mortgages 1 % 2 % (1)Problem commercial mortgages include mortgage loans in foreclosure of $10.4 million as of December 31, 2005. There were no mortgage loans in foreclosure as of December 31, 2004. Equity Real Estate We hold commercial equity real estate as part of our investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004, the carrying amount of equity real estate investment was $987.7 million and $945.7 million, or 2% and 1%, of U.S. invested assets, respectively. Our commercial equity real estate is held in the form of wholly owned real estate, real estate acquired upon foreclosure of commercial mortgage loans, and majority owned interests in real estate joint ventures. Equity real estate is categorized as either "real estate held for investment" or "real estate held for sale". Real estate held for investment totaled $853.9 million as of December 31, 2005, and $809.6 million as of December 31, 2004. The carrying value of real estate held for investment is generally adjusted for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. Such impairment adjustments are recorded as realized investment losses and accordingly, are reflected in our consolidated results of operations. For the years ended December 31, 2005 and December 31, 2004, there were no such impairment adjustments. The carrying amount of real estate held for sale as of December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004, was $133.8 million and $136.1 million, net of valuation allowances of $4.2 million and $5.8 million, respectively. Once we identify a real estate property to be sold and commence a plan for marketing the property, we classify the property as held for sale. We establish a valuation allowance subject to periodic revisions, if necessary, to adjust the carrying value of the property to reflect the lower of its current carrying value or the fair value, less associated selling costs. We use research, both internal and external, to recommend appropriate product and geographic allocations and changes to the equity real estate portfolio. We monitor product, geographic and industry diversification separately and together to determine the most appropriate mix. Equity real estate is distributed across geographic regions of the country with larger concentrations in the South Atlantic, Pacific, and West South Central regions of the United States as of December 31, 2005. By property type, there is a concentration in office buildings and industrial sites that represented approximately 62% of the equity real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2005. Other Investments Our other investments totaled $755.3 million as of December 31, 2005, compared to $1,339.7 million as of December 31, 2004. Derivatives accounted for $419.3 million in other investments as of December 31, 2005. The remaining invested assets include minority interests in unconsolidated entities and properties owned jointly with venture partners and operated by the partners. International Investment Operations As of December 31, 2005, our international investment operations consist of the investments of Principal International comprised of $3.1 billion in invested assets. Principal Global Investors advises each Principal International affiliate on investment policies and strategies that are consistent with the products they offer. Due to the regulatory constraints in each country, each company maintains its own investment policies. Principal Global Investors employees and international affiliate company credit analysts jointly review each corporate credit annually. 81 Overall Composition of International Invested Assets As shown in the following table, the major categories of international invested assets as of December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004, were fixed maturity securities and residential mortgage loans: International Invested Assets December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 Carrying Amount % of Total Carrying Amount % of Total ($ in millions) Fixed maturity securities Public $ 2,114.1 69 % $ 1,782.6 72 % Private 0.6 Equity securities 50.7 2 36.7 2 Mortgage loans Residential 505.1 17 385.8 16 Real estate held for investment 11.7 10.8 Other investments 358.2 12 246.0 10 Total invested assets 3,040.4 100 % 2,461.9 100 % Cash and cash equivalents 56.2 83.0 Total invested assets and cash $ 3,096.6 $ 2,544.9 82   Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Market Risk Exposures and Risk Management Market risk is the risk that we will incur losses due to adverse fluctuations in market rates and prices. Our primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates, although we also have exposures to changes in equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. The active management of market risk is an integral part of our operations. We manage our overall market risk exposure within established risk tolerance ranges by using the following approaches: rebalance our existing asset or liability portfolios; control the risk structure of newly acquired assets and liabilities; or use derivative instruments to modify the market risk characteristics of existing assets or liabilities or assets expected to be purchased. Interest Rate Risk Interest rate risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse changes in interest rates. One source of interest rate risk is the inherent difficulty in obtaining assets that mature or have their rate reset at the exact same time as the liabilities they support. Assets may have to be reinvested or sold in the future to meet the liability cashflows in unknown interest rate environments. Also, there may be timing differences between when new liabilities are priced and when assets are purchased or procured that can cause fluctuations in profitability if interest rates move materially in the interim. A third source of interest rate risk is the prepayment options embedded within asset and liability contracts that can alter the cash flow profiles from what was originally expected. One of the measures we use to quantify our exposure to interest rate risk is duration. To calculate duration, we project asset and liability cashflows. These cash flows are discounted to a net present value basis using a spot yield curve, which is a blend of the spot yield curves for each of the asset types in the portfolio. Duration is calculated by re calculating these cashflows, re determining the net present value based upon an alternative level of interest rates, and determining the percentage change in fair value. We manage interest rate risks in a number of ways. Differences in durations between assets and liabilities are measured and kept within acceptable tolerances. Derivatives are also commonly used to mitigate interest rate risk due to cashflow mismatches and timing differences. Prepayment risk is controlled by limiting our exposure to investments that are prepayable without penalty prior to maturity at the option of the issuer. We also require additional yield on these investments to compensate for the risk the issuer will exercise such option. Prepayment risk is also controlled by limiting the sales of liabilities with features such as puts or other options that can be exercised against the company at inopportune times. Duration Managed. Our exposure to interest rate risk stems largely from our substantial holdings of guaranteed fixed rate liabilities in our U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment. We actively manage the duration of assets and liabilities in these products by minimizing the difference between the two. We have established a maximum tolerance for this difference and seek to stay within this tolerance. As of December 31, 2005, the difference between the asset and liability durations on our primary duration managed portfolio was .07. This duration gap indicates that, as of this date, the sensitivity of the fair value of our assets to interest rate movements is less than that of the fair value of our liabilities. Our goal is to minimize the duration gap. Currently, our guidelines indicate that total duration gaps between the asset and liability portfolios should be within +/ 0.25. The value of the assets in this portfolio was $30,923.7 million as of December 31, 2005. Duration Monitored. For products such as whole life insurance and term life insurance that are less sensitive to interest rate risk, and for other products such as individual single premium deferred annuities, we manage interest rate risk based on a modeling process that considers the target average life, maturities, crediting rates and assumptions of policyholder behavior. As of December 31, 2005, the weighted average difference between the asset and liability durations on these portfolios was +.63. This duration gap indicates that, as of this date, the sensitivity of the fair value of our assets to interest rate movements is greater than that of the fair value of our liabilities. We attempt to monitor this duration gap consistent with our overall risk/reward tolerances. The value of the assets in these portfolios was $15,430.6 million as of December 31, 2005. Non Duration Managed. We also have a block of participating general account pension business that passes most of the actual investment performance of the assets to the customer. The investment strategy of this block is to maximize investment return to the customer on a "best efforts" basis, and there is little or no attempt to manage the duration of this portfolio since there is little or no interest rate risk. The value of the assets in these portfolios was $1,625.3 million as of December 31, 2005. 83 Using the assumptions and data in effect as of December 31, 2005, we estimate that a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase in interest rates decreases the net fair value of our portfolio by approximately $75.6 million. The following table details the estimated changes by risk management strategy. The table also gives the weighted average duration of the asset portfolio for each category, and the net duration gap (i.e. the weighted average difference between the asset and liability durations). December 31, 2005 Risk Management Strategy Value of Total Assets Duration of Assets Net Duration Gap Net Fair Value Change (in millions) (in millions) Primary duration managed $ 30,923.7 3.95 (.07 ) $ 21.6 Duration monitored 15,430.6 5.21 .63 (97.2 ) Non duration managed 1,625.3 6.14 N/A N/A Total $ 47,979.6 $ (75.6 ) Our selection of a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase or decrease in interest rates is a hypothetical rate scenario we use to demonstrate potential risk. While a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase does not represent our view of future market changes, it is a near term reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. While these fair value measurements provide a representation of interest rate sensitivity, they are based on our portfolio exposures at a point in time and may not be representative of future market results. These exposures will change as a result of ongoing portfolio transactions in response to new business, managements assessment of changing market conditions and available investment opportunities. Debt Issued and Outstanding. As of December 31, 2005, the aggregate fair value of long term debt was $969.5 million. A 100 basis point, immediate, parallel decrease in interest rates would increase the fair value of debt by approximately $36.2 million. Debt is not recorded at fair value on the statement of financial position. December 31, 2005 Fair Value (no accrued interest) 100 Basis Point Change No Change +100 Basis Point Change (in millions) 8.2% notes payable, due 2009 $ 526.1 $ 509.8 $ 494.0 4.59% notes payable, due 2011 59.0 56.0 53.2 4.93% notes payable, due 2011 54.9 52.2 49.7 8% surplus notes payable, due 2044 121.8 112.6 103.3 Non recourse mortgages and notes payable 191.8 187.4 183.2 Other mortgages and notes payable 52.1 51.5 51.0 Total long term debt $ 1,005.7 $ 969.5 $ 934.4 Use of Derivatives to Manage Interest Rate Risk. We use various derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, including interest rate swaps, swaptions, futures, total return swaps, mortgage backed forwards and options. We use interest rate swaps, futures contracts and mortgage backed forwards to hedge changes in interest rates subsequent to the issuance of an insurance liability, such as a guaranteed investment contract, but prior to the purchase of a supporting asset, or during periods of holding assets in anticipation of near term liability sales. We use interest rate swaps primarily to more closely match the interest rate characteristics of assets and liabilities. They can be used to change the sensitivity to the interest rate of specific assets and liabilities as well as an entire portfolio. We also use these instruments to hedge the interest rate exposure in our commercial mortgage backed securitization operations. Occasionally, we will sell a callable investment type agreement and will use written interest rate swaptions to transform the callable liability into a fixed term liability. Foreign Currency Risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. This risk arises from foreign currency denominated funding agreements issued to non qualified institutional investors in the international market, foreign currency denominated fixed maturity securities purchased, and our international operations. We estimate that as of December 31, 2005, a 10% immediate unfavorable change in each of the foreign currency exchange rates to which we are exposed would result in no material change to the net fair value of our foreign currency denominated instruments identified above, including the currency swap agreements. The selection of a 10% immediate 84 unfavorable change in all currency exchange rates should not be construed as a prediction by us of future market events, but rather as an illustration of the potential impact of such an event. Use of Derivatives to Manage Foreign Currency Risk. The foreign currency risk on funding agreements and fixed maturity securities is eliminated by using currency swaps that swap the foreign currency interest and principal payments to our functional currency. The notional amount of our currency swap agreements associated with foreign denominated liabilities as of December 31, 2005, was $2,832.8 million. The notional amount of our currency swap agreements associated with foreign denominated fixed maturity securities as of December 31, 2005, was $997.6 million. With regard to our international operations, we attempt to do as much of our business as possible in the functional currency of the country of operation. At times, however, we are unable to do so, and in these cases, we use foreign exchange derivatives to hedge the resulting risks. As of December 31, 2005, our operations in Chile had currency swaps with a notional amount of $24.1 million that are used to swap cash flows on U.S. dollar denominated bonds to a local currency. Chile also utilized currency forwards with a notional amount of $57.4 million in order to mitigate currency exposure related to U.S. dollar denominated bonds. Additionally, we may take measures to hedge our net equity investments in our foreign subsidiaries from currency risks. As of June 15, 2005, we settled currency forwards used to hedge a portion of our net equity investment in our Mexican operations from currency fluctuations. We recognized a $2.7 million pre tax loss on these contracts which is included in accumulated other comprehensive income. As of November 3, 2005, we settled currency forwards used to hedge a portion of our net equity investment in our Chilean operations from currency fluctuations. We recognized a $0.5 million pre tax gain in other comprehensive income from these contracts for the year ended December 31, 2005. Currently, there are no other outstanding net equity investment hedges. Equity Risk Equity risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse fluctuations in a particular common stock. As of December 31, 2005, the fair value of our equity securities was $814.7 million. A 10% decline in the value of the equity securities would result in an unrealized loss of $81.5 million. The selection of a 10% unfavorable change in the equity markets should not be construed as a prediction by us of future market events, but rather as an illustration of the potential impact of such an event. We also have equity risk associated with (1) fixed deferred annuity products that credit interest to customers based on changes in an external equity index; (2) variable annuity contracts that have a guaranteed minimum withdrawal benefit ("GMWB") rider that allows the customer to receive at least the principal deposit back through withdrawals of a specified annual amount, even if the account value is reduced to zero; and (3) investment type contracts in which the return is tied to an external equity index. Use of Derivatives to Manage Equity Risk. We economically hedge the fixed deferred annuity product by purchasing options that match the products profile. We economically hedge the GMWB exposure using futures, options and interest rate swaps. We economically hedge the investment contract exposure using equity call options. Credit Risk Credit risk relates to the uncertainty associated with the continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments of principal and interest. Our ability to manage credit risk is essential to our business and our profitability. See Item 7. "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Investments" for additional information about credit risk. Use of Derivatives to Diversify or Hedge Credit Risk. We sometimes purchase credit default swaps to hedge credit exposures in our investment portfolio. We sell credit default swaps to offer credit protection to investors. If there is an event of default by the referenced name, we are obligated to pay the counterparty the referenced amount of the contract and receive in return the referenced security. We have increased our credit exposure through credit default swaps by investing in $42.5 million of subordinated tranches of a synthetic collateralized debt obligation. The outstanding notional amount as of December 31, 2005 was $480.0 million. We also invested in credit default swaps creating replicated assets with a notional amount of $687.6 million as of December 31, 2005. In addition, on May 26, 2005, we invested $130.0 million in a secured limited recourse credit linked note issued by a grantor trust. The trust entered into a credit default swap providing credit protection on the first 45% of loss of seven mezzanine tranches totaling $288.9 million of seven synthetic reference portfolios. The risk of loss for the seven referenced mezzanine tranches begins at 4.85% and ends at 10.85% of loss on each of the seven synthetic reference portfolios. Therefore, defaults in an underlying reference portfolio will only affect the credit linked note if cumulative losses exceed 4.85% of a synthetic reference portfolio. As of December 31, 2005, the credit default swap entered into by the trust had an outstanding notional amount of $130.0 million. The creditors of the grantor trusts have no recourse to the assets of our company. 85 Derivative Summary Notional amounts are used to express the extent of our involvement in derivative transactions and represent a standard measurement of the volume of our derivative activity. Notional amount is not a quantification of market risk or credit risk and it may not necessarily be recorded on the balance sheet. Notional amounts represent those amounts used to calculate contractual flows to be exchanged and are not paid or received, except for contracts such as currency swaps. Actual credit exposure represents the amount owed to us under derivative contracts as of the valuation date. The following tables present our position in, and credit exposure to, derivative financial instruments as of December 31, 2005, and December 31, 2004. Derivative Financial Instruments Notional Amounts December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 Notional Amount % of Total Notional Amount % of Total ($ in millions) Interest rate swaps $ 8,531.3 50 % $ 7,481.9 49 % Foreign currency swaps 3,854.5 23 3,037.5 20 Credit default swaps 1,297.6 8 988.3 7 Embedded derivative financial instruments 1,199.5 7 869.9 6 Swaptions 684.5 4 429.0 3 Currency forwards 566.6 4 441.7 3 Interest rate lock commitments 392.3 2 634.3 4 Call options 189.8 1 73.0 1 Total return swaps 100.0 1 Futures 58.9 11.8 Mortgage backed forwards and options 39.3 586.8 4 Bond options 38.5 38.5 Bond forwards 508.0 3 Total $ 16,952.8 100 % $ 15,100.7 100 % Derivative Financial Instruments Credit Exposures December 31, 2005 December 31, 2004 Credit Exposure % of Total Credit Exposure % of Total ($ in millions) Foreign currency swaps $ 339.6 72 % $ 805.2 85 % Interest rate swaps 89.3 19 41.5 4 Call options 18.0 4 10.5 1 Credit default swaps 14.0 3 19.3 2 Currency forwards 11.4 2 7.1 1 Bond options 0.6 0.7 Bond forwards 66.8 7 Total credit exposure 472.9 100 % 951.1 100 % Less: Collateral received (97.6 ) (396.5 ) Total $ 375.3 $ 554.6 86 The following table shows the interest rate sensitivity of our derivatives measured in terms of fair value. These exposures will change as a result of ongoing portfolio and risk management activities. December 31, 2005 Fair Value (no accrued interest) Notional Amount Weighted Average Term (Years) 100 Basis Point Change No Change +100 Basis Point Change ($ in millions) Interest rate swaps $ 8,531.3 6.21 (1) $ (179.9 ) $ 23.4 $ 205.3 Mortgage backed forwards and options 39.3 .03 (4) (0.2 ) (0.2 ) (0.2 ) Swaptions 684.5 7.54 (3) (55.5 ) (30.3 ) (15.8 ) Futures 52.4 .22 (2) (2.3 ) 0.1 2.4 Total return swaps 100.0 .06 (1) Bond options 38.5 2.25 (4) (3.8 ) (1.1 ) 2.7 Total $ 9,446.0 $ (241.7 ) $ (8.1 ) $ 194.4 (1)Based on maturity date of swap. (2)Based on maturity date. (3)Based on option date of swaption. (4)Based on settlement date. We use U.S. Treasury futures to manage our over/under commitment position, and our position in these contracts changes daily. Counterparty Risk In conjunction with our use of derivatives, we are exposed to counterparty risk, or the risk that the counterparty fails to perform the terms of the derivative contract. We actively manage this risk by: establishing exposure limits which take into account non derivative exposure we have with the counterparty as well as derivative exposure; performing similar credit analysis prior to approval on each derivatives counterparty that we do when lending money on a long term basis; diversifying our risk across numerous approved counterparties; limiting exposure to A+ credit or better; conducting stress test analysis to determine the maximum exposure created during the life of a prospective transaction; implementing credit support annex (collateral) agreements with selected counterparties to further limit counterparty exposures; and daily monitoring of counterparty credit ratings. All new derivative counterparties are approved by the Investment Committee. We believe the risk of incurring losses due to nonperformance by our counterparties is manageable. Effects of Inflation We do not believe that inflation, in the United States or in the other countries in which we operate, has had a material effect on our consolidated operations over the past five years. In the future, however, we may be affected by inflation to the extent it causes interest rates to rise. 87   
 
