Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following analysis discusses our financial condition as of December 31, 2006, compared with December 31, 2005, and our consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, and, where appropriate, factors that may affect our future financial performance. The discussion should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes to the financial statements and the other financial information included elsewhere in this Form 10 K. Forward Looking Information Our narrative analysis below contains forward looking statements intended to enhance the readers ability to assess our future financial performance. Forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that represent our beliefs concerning future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments, and contain words and phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," and similar expressions. Forward looking statements are made based upon managements current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects on us. Such forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those included in the forward looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties including, but not limited to the following: (1) a decline or increased volatility in the securities markets could result in investors withdrawing from the markets or decreasing their rates of investment, either of which could reduce our net income, revenues and assets under management; (2) our investment portfolio is subject to several risks which may diminish the value of our invested assets and affect our sales, profitability and the investment returns credited to our customers; (3) competition from companies that may have greater financial resources, broader arrays of products, higher ratings and stronger financial performance may impair our ability to retain existing customers, attract new customers and maintain our profitability; (4) a downgrade in any of our ratings may increase policy surrenders and withdrawals, reduce new sales and terminate relationships with distributors, and impact existing liabilities, any of which could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition; (5) our efforts to reduce the impact of interest rate changes on our profitability and surplus may not be effective; (6) if we are unable to attract and retain sales representatives and develop new distribution sources, sales of our products and services may be reduced; (7) our international businesses face political, legal, operational and other risks that could reduce our profitability in those businesses; (8) our reserves established for future policy benefits and claims may prove inadequate, requiring us to increase liabilities; (9) our ability to pay stockholder dividends and meet our obligations may be constrained by the limitations on dividends Iowa insurance laws impose on Principal Life; (10) the pattern of amortizing our DPAC on our SFAS 97 products may change, impacting both the level of the asset and the timing of our operating earnings; (11) we may need to fund deficiencies in our Closed Block assets; (12) a pandemic, terrorist attack, or other catastrophic event could adversely affect our earnings; (13) our reinsurers could default on their obligations or increase their rates, which could adversely impact our earnings and profitability (14) we may encounter difficulty integrating WM Advisors, Inc. and may incur substantial costs in connection with the integration; (15) changes in laws, regulations or accounting standards may reduce our profitability; (16) litigation and regulatory investigations may affect our financial strength or reduce our profitability; (17) fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could reduce our profitability; and (18) applicable laws and our stockholder rights plan, certificate of incorporation and by laws may discourage takeovers and business combinations that our stockholders might consider in their best interests. Overview We provide financial products and services through the following segments: U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation, which consists of our asset accumulation operations, which provide retirement savings and related investment products and services, and our asset management operations conducted through Principal Global Investors. We provide a comprehensive portfolio of asset accumulation products and services to businesses and individuals in the U.S., with a concentration on small and medium sized businesses, which we define as businesses with fewer than 1,000 employees. We offer to businesses products and services for defined contribution pension plans, including 401(k) and 403(b) plans, defined benefit pension plans, non qualified executive benefit plans, and employee stock ownership plan consulting services. We also offer annuities, mutual funds and bank products and services to the employees of our business customers and other individuals. Principal Global Investors offers an extensive range of equity, fixed income and real estate investments as well as specialized overlay and advisory services to institutional investors. International Asset Management and Accumulation, which consists of Principal International, offers retirement products and services, annuities, long term mutual funds and life insurance through operations in Chile, Mexico, Hong Kong, Brazil, India, China, and Malaysia. Life and Health Insurance, which provides individual life insurance, group health insurance as well as specialty benefits in the U.S. Our individual life insurance products include universal and variable universal life insurance and traditional life insurance. Our health insurance products include group medical insurance and fee for service claims administration and wellness services. Our specialty benefit products include group dental and vision insurance, individual and group disability insurance, and group life insurance. 32 Corporate and Other, which manages the assets representing capital that has not been allocated to any other segment. Financial results of the Corporate and Other segment primarily reflect our financing activities (including interest expense), income on capital not allocated to other segments, inter segment eliminations, income tax risks and certain income, expenses and other after tax adjustments not allocated to the segments based on the nature of such items. Our historical results contained a Mortgage Banking segment, which engaged in originating, purchasing, selling and servicing residential mortgage loans in the U.S. On July 1, 2004, we closed the sale of Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. to CitiMortgage, Inc., described further in "Transactions Affecting Comparability of Results of Operations." Economic Factors and Trends Modest results in the equity markets along with an increase in net cash flow have led to increases in asset accumulations account values and our asset managements assets under management. In our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment, we continued to grow our existing business through organic growth in our existing subsidiaries and a combination of joint ventures and strategic acquisitions. Over the past few years, we have shifted our marketing emphasis to universal and variable universal life insurance products from traditional life insurance products in our Life and Health segment. We are also in the early stages of a trend toward voluntary products sponsored by employers. Profitability Our profitability depends in large part upon our: amount of assets under management; spreads we earn on our policyholders general account asset accumulation business that result from the difference between what we earn and what we credit; ability to generate fee revenues by providing administrative and investment management services; ability to price our life and health insurance products at a level that enables us to earn a margin over the cost of providing benefits and the related expenses; ability to manage our investment portfolio to maximize investment returns and minimize risks such as interest rate changes or defaults or impairments of invested assets; ability to effectively hedge fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates; and ability to manage our operating expenses. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The increasing complexity of the business environment and applicable authoritative accounting guidance requires us to closely monitor our accounting policies. Our significant accounting policies are described in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1 Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies". We have identified five critical accounting policies that are complex and require significant judgment and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. A summary of our critical accounting policies is intended to enhance the readers ability to assess our financial condition and results of operations and the potential volatility due to changes in estimates and changes in guidance. The identification, selection and disclosure of critical accounting estimates and policies have been discussed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Valuation of Invested Assets Fixed Maturities, Available for Sale. Fixed maturity securities include bonds, mortgage backed securities and redeemable preferred stock. We classify our fixed maturity securities as either available for sale or trading and, accordingly, carry them at fair value in the statement of financial position. The fair values of our public fixed maturity securities are based on quoted market prices or estimates from independent pricing services. However, 23% of our invested asset portfolio is invested in fixed maturity securities that are private market assets, where there are no readily available market quotes to determine the fair market value. These assets are valued using a spread pricing matrix. Securities are grouped into pricing categories that vary by asset class, sector, rating, and average life. Each pricing category is assigned a risk spread based on studies of observable public market data or market clearing data from the investment professionals assigned to specific security classes. The expected cash flows of the security are then discounted back at the current Treasury curve plus the appropriate risk spread. Although the matrix valuation approach provides a fair valuation of each pricing category, the valuation of an individual security within each pricing category may actually be impacted by company specific factors. Certain market events that could impact the valuation of securities include issuer credit ratings, business climate, management changes, litigation, and government actions among others. An interest rate increase in the range of 20 to 100 basis points, while holding credit spreads constant, produces total values of $38.1 billion and $36.7 billion, as compared to the recorded amount of $38.5 billion related to our fixed maturity, available for sale 33 assets held by the Principal Life general account as of December 31, 2006. This portfolio has a weighted average life of 7 years. An analysis of historical changes in the 7 year Treasury rate supports our belief that an interest rate change of 20 to 100 basis points is reasonably likely. Investments classified as available for sale are subject to impairment reviews. When evaluating a fixed maturity security for impairment, we consider relevant facts and circumstances in evaluating whether the impairment is other than temporary. Relevant facts and circumstances considered include: (1) the extent and length of time the fair value has been below cost; (2) the reasons for the decline in value; (3) the financial position and access to capital of the issuer, including the current and future impact of any specific events; and (4) our ability and intent to hold the security for a period of time that allows for the recovery of value which, in some cases, may extend to maturity. When it is determined that the decline in value is other than temporary the carrying value of the security is reduced to its fair value, with a corresponding charge to net income. The corresponding charge is referred to as an other than temporary impairment and is reported as a net realized/unrealized capital loss in our consolidated statement of operations. There are a number of significant risks and uncertainties inherent in the process of monitoring impairments and determining if an impairment is other than temporary. These risks and uncertainties include: (1) the risk that our assessment of an issuers ability to meet all of its contractual obligations will change based on changes in the credit characteristics of that issuer; (2) the risk that the economic outlook will be worse than expected or have more of an impact on the issuer than anticipated; (3) the risk that our investment professionals are making decisions based on fraudulent or misstated information in the financial statements provided by issuers; and (4) the risk that new information obtained by us or changes in other facts and circumstances lead us to change our intent to hold the security until it recovers in value. Any of these situations could result in a charge to net income in a future period. At December 31, 2006, we had $16,464.3 million in available for sale fixed maturity securities with gross unrealized losses totaling $308.5 million. Included in the gross unrealized losses are losses attributable to both movements in market interest rates as well as temporary credit issues. Net income would be reduced by approximately $308.5 million, on a pre tax basis, if all the securities were deemed to be other than temporarily impaired. Mortgage Loans. Mortgage loans consist primarily of commercial mortgage loans on real estate. At December 31, 2006, commercial mortgage loans aggregated to $10,090.3 million. Commercial mortgage loans are generally reported at cost adjusted for amortization of premiums and accrual of discounts, computed using the interest method, and net of valuation allowances. Commercial mortgage loans held for sale are carried at the lower of cost or fair value, less cost to sell, and reported as mortgage loans in the statements of financial position. Commercial mortgage loans on real estate are considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to contractual terms of the loan agreement. When we determine that a loan is impaired, a valuation allowance is established for the difference between the carrying amount of the mortgage loan and the estimated value. Estimated value is based on either the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at the loans effective interest rate, the loans observable market price or fair value of the collateral. The change in valuation allowance is reported as a net realized/unrealized capital loss on our consolidated statements of operations. The determination of the calculation and the adequacy of the mortgage loan allowance and mortgage impairments are subjective. Our periodic evaluation and assessment of the adequacy of the allowance for losses and the need for mortgage impairments is based on known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrowers ability to repay, the estimated value of the underlying collateral, composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions, loss experience and other relevant factors. The calculation for determining loan specific impairment amounts is also subjective, as it requires estimating the amounts and timing of future cash flows expected to be received on impaired loans. Our financial position is sensitive to changes in estimated cash flows from mortgages, the value of the collateral, and changes in the economic environment in general. The allowance for losses can be expected to increase when economic conditions worsen and decrease when economic conditions improve. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs Commissions and other costs (underwriting, issuance and agency expenses) that vary with and are primarily related to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance policies and investment contract business are capitalized to the extent recoverable. Maintenance costs and acquisition costs that are not deferrable are charged to operations as incurred. DPAC of non participating term life and individual disability insurance policies are amortized over the premium paying period of the related policies using assumptions consistent with those used in computing policyholder liabilities. Once these assumptions are made for a given policy or group of policies, they will not be changed over the life of the policy. DPAC for universal life type insurance contracts, participating life insurance policies and investment contracts are amortized over the expected lifetime of the policies in relation to the emergence of estimated gross profits. At issue and each valuation date, we develop an estimate of the expected future gross profits. These estimated gross profits contain assumptions relating to mortality, morbidity, investment yield and expenses. As actual experience emerges, the gross profits may vary from those expected either in magnitude or timing in which case a true up to actual 34 occurs as a charge or credit to current operations. In addition, we are required to revise our assumptions regarding future experience as soon as the current assumptions are no longer actuarially credible. Both actions, reflecting actual experience and changing future estimates, can change the amount of the asset and the pattern of future amortization. For individual variable annuities and group annuities which have separate account equity investment options, we utilize a mean reversion method (reversion to the mean assumption), a common industry practice, to determine the future domestic equity market growth rate assumption used for the amortization of DPAC. This practice assumes that the expectation for long term appreciation is not changed by minor short term market fluctuations. DPAC are subject to recoverability testing at the time of policy issue and loss recognition testing on an annual basis, or when an event occurs that may warrant loss recognition. If loss recognition is necessary, DPAC are written off to the extent that it is determined that future policy premiums and investment income or gross profits are not adequate to cover related losses and expenses. The total DPAC asset balance as of December 31, 2006, was $2.4 billion. Based on historical experience, we believe a 1% change in the long term investment performance rate assumption on separate accounts in our DPAC models is reasonably likely. Such a change would cause an estimated $9.2 million change in the DPAC asset as of December 31, 2006. Also, removing the mean reversion methodology from the DPAC asset calculation would increase the December 31, 2006 DPAC balance by $0.8 million. Insurance Reserves Reserves are liabilities representing estimates of the amounts that will come due, at some point in the future, to or on behalf of our policyholders. U.S. GAAP, allowing for some degree of managerial judgment, prescribes the methods of establishing reserves. Future policy benefits and claims include reserves for traditional and group life insurance, accident and health insurance, and individual and group annuities that provide periodic income payments, which are computed using assumptions of mortality, morbidity, lapse, investment performance and expense. These assumptions are based on our experience and are periodically reviewed against industry standards to ensure actuarial credibility. For long duration insurance contracts, once these assumptions are made for a given policy or group of policies, they will not be changed over the life of the policy. However, significant changes in experience or assumptions may require us to provide for expected future losses on a product by establishing premium deficiency reserves. Premium deficiency reserves may also be established for short duration contracts to provide for expected future losses. Our reserve levels are reviewed throughout the year using internal analysis including, among other things, experience studies, claim development analysis and annual statutory asset adequacy analysis. To the extent experience indicates potential loss recognition, we recognize losses on certain lines of business. The ultimate accuracy of the assumptions on these long tailed insurance products cannot be determined until the obligation of the entire block of business on which the assumptions were made is extinguished. Short term variances of actual results from the assumptions used in the computation of the reserves are reflected in current period net income and can impact quarter to quarter net income. Future policy benefits and claims also include reserves for incurred but unreported health, disability and life insurance claims. We recognize claims costs in the period the service was provided to our policyowners. However, claims costs incurred in a particular period are not known with certainty until after we receive, process and pay the claims. We determine the amount of this liability using actuarial methods based on historical claim payment patterns as well as emerging medical cost trends, where applicable, to determine our estimate of claim liabilities. We also look back to assess how our prior periods estimates developed. To the extent appropriate, changes in such development are recorded as a change to current period claim expense. For the years ending 2006, 2005 and 2004, the amount of the claim reserve adjustment made in that period for prior period estimates was within a reasonable range given our normal claim fluctuations. Benefit Plans The reported expense and liability associated with pension and other postretirement benefit plans requires the use of assumptions. Numerous assumptions are made regarding the discount rate, expected long term rate of return on plan assets, turnover, expected compensation increases, health care claim costs, health care cost trends, retirement rates, and mortality. The discount rate and the expected return on plan assets have the most significant impact on the level of cost. The assumed discount rate is determined by projecting future benefit payments and discounting those cash flows using rates based on the Bloomberg AA Finance yield to maturity curves. For 2006 year end, we set the discount rate at 6.15%. A 0.25% decrease in the discount rate would increase pension benefits Projected Benefit Obligation ("PBO") and the 2007 Net Periodic Pension Cost ("NPPC") by approximately $58.9 million and $8.7 million, respectively. A 0.25% decrease in the discount rate would increase other post retirement benefits Accumulated Postretirement Benefit Obligation ("APBO") and the 2007 Net Periodic Benefit Cost ("NPBC") by approximately $8.5 million and $0.8 million, respectively. A 0.25% increase in the discount rate would result in decreases in benefit obligations and expenses at a level generally commensurate with that noted above. 35 The assumed long term rate of return on plan assets is set at the long term rate expected to be earned based on the long term investment policy of the plans and the various classes of the invested funds. Historical and future expected returns of multiple asset classes were analyzed to develop a risk free real rate of return and risk premiums for each asset class. The overall long term rate for each asset class was developed by combining a long term inflation component, the risk free real rate of return, and the associated risk premium. A weighted average rate was developed based on long term returns for each asset class, the plans target asset allocation policy, and the tax structure of the trusts. For the 2006 NPPC and 2006 NPBC, an 8.25% and 7.3% weighted average long term rate of return was used, respectively. For the 2007 NPPC and 2007 NPBC, an 8.25% and 7.3% weighted average long term rate of return assumption will be used, respectively. A 0.25% decrease in the long term rate of return would increase 2007 NPPC by approximately $3.5 million and the 2007 NPBC by approximately $1.2 million. A 0.25% increase in this rate would result in a decrease to expense at the same levels. The expected return on plan assets is based on the fair market value of plan assets as of September 30, 2006. The compensation increase assumption is generally set at a rate consistent with current and expected long term compensation and salary policy, including inflation. Actuarial gains and losses are amortized using a straight line amortization method over the average remaining service period of employees, which is approximately 9 years for pension costs and approximately 13 years for other postretirement benefit costs. Prior service costs are amortized on a weighted average basis over approximately 8 years for both pension and other postretirement benefit costs. Income Taxes We provide for income taxes based on our estimate of the liability for taxes due. Our tax accounting represents managements best estimate of various events and transactions, such as completion of tax audits, which could have an impact on our estimates and effective tax rate in a particular quarter or annual period. Inherent in the provision for income taxes are estimates regarding the deductibility of certain items, the timing of income and expense recognition and the realization of certain tax credits. In the event our estimates of the ultimate deductibility of certain items, the timing of the recognition of income and expense or the realization of certain tax credits differ from prior estimates due to the receipt of new information, we may be required to significantly change the provision for income taxes recorded in the consolidated financial statements. Any such change could significantly affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements in the year these estimates change. In addition, the amount of income taxes paid is subject to audits in various jurisdictions. Tax benefits are recognized for book purposes when the probable threshold is met with regard to the validity of the tax position. Once this threshold is met, for each tax reporting issue, we provide for our best estimate of the payments to be made to or received from the Internal Revenue Service and other taxing authorities for audits ongoing or not yet commenced. We believe that we have adequate defenses against, or sufficient provisions for, the contested issues, but final resolution of contested issues could take several years while legal remedies are pursued. Consequently, we do not anticipate the ultimate resolution of audits ongoing or not yet commenced to have a material impact on our net income. Transactions Affecting Comparability of Results of Operations Acquisitions We acquired the following businesses, among others, during the past three years: WM Advisors, Inc. On July 25, 2006, we announced a definitive agreement to acquire WM Advisors, Inc. ("WM Advisors") and its subsidiaries from Washington Mutual, Inc. WM Advisors, with approximately $28.0 billion in assets under management, provides investment advisory services to mutual funds, variable trust funds and asset allocation portfolios to approximately 800,000 shareholder accounts nationwide. We closed the transaction on December 31, 2006, for a total cost of $741.1 million in cash, subject to closing adjustments.. The operations of WM Advisors, Inc. are reported and consolidated in our U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment. Principal Global Services Private Limited In December 2005, we formed Principal Global Services Private Limited ("PGS"), which began operations in Pune, India, as of August 2006. PGS employees perform services for our U.S. operations including claims data entry, 401(k) processing, IT coding/application development, and IT quality assurance. PGS start up costs are reported in our Corporate and Other segment through 2006. Beginning in 2007, expenses will be allocated to segments for which services are performed. 36  Principal Commercial Funding II. On October 24, 2005, Principal Real Estate Investors and U.S. Bank National Association announced that they agreed to create Principal Commercial Funding II, a jointly owned business that will compete in the CMBS market. Principal Real Estate Investors is the real estate investment arm of Principal Global Investors. U.S. Bank National Association is the principal banking subsidiary of U.S. Bancorp. The new company is the CMBS platform for both Principal Real Estate Investors and U.S. Bank National Association and focuses on securitizing commercial mortgages originated by both Principal Real Estate Investors and U.S. Bank National Association on its behalf. Principal Commercial Funding II began operations immediately, and began contributing collateral to securitizations during the first quarter of 2006. The operations of Principal Commercial Funding II are reported in our U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment using the equity method of accounting. CCB Principal Asset Management Company, Ltd. On August 7, 2005, we announced that we entered into a joint venture agreement with China Construction Bank ("CCB") to market mutual funds in the Peoples Republic of China. We closed the transaction on September 19, 2005 with a 25% ownership in CCB Principal Asset Management Company, Ltd. The operations of CCB Principal Asset Management Company, Ltd. are reported in our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment using the equity method of accounting. PNB Principal Insurance Advisory Company Pvt. Ltd. On February 21, 2005, Principal Financial Group (Mauritius) Ltd. ("PFGM") acquired a 26% stake and management control of PNB Principal Insurance Advisory Company Pvt. Ltd. ("PPIAC"), an insurance brokerage company in India. The operations of PPIAC are reported and consolidated in our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment. ABN AMRO Trust Services Company. On December 17, 2004, we entered into a strategic agreement to acquire ABN AMRO Trust Services Company ("Principal Services Trust Company"), the Chicago based pension and retirement business of ABN AMRO. As of December 31, 2004, Principal Services Trust Company provided full service defined contribution recordkeeping and investment services in the U.S., administering approximately 280 401(k) plans with more than 120,000 participants, representing $4.0 billion in full service account values. The transaction closed on December 31, 2004 and the business was fully integrated into full service accumulation in early 2006. Columbus Circle Investors. On October 14, 2004, we agreed to purchase a 70% interest in Columbus Circle Investors ("Columbus Circle"). The acquisition of Columbus Circle increased our assets under management by $3.9 billion. Columbus Circle has specialized expertise in the management of growth equities. We closed the transaction on January 3, 2005. The operations of Columbus Circle are reported in our U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment. Principal Fund Management (Hong Kong) Limited. On January 31, 2004, our wholly owned subsidiary, Principal Asset Management Company (Asia) Limited, purchased a 100% ownership of Dao Heng Fund Management in Hong Kong from Guoco Group Limited ("Guoco"). Effective September 17, 2004, we changed the name of this subsidiary to Principal Fund Management (Hong Kong) Limited. This acquisition increases our presence in the Hong Kong defined contribution pension market and increases the potential of our long term mutual fund operations. We report these operations in our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment. Dispositions We entered into disposition agreements or disposed of the following businesses, among others, during the past three years: Principal Dental Services, Inc. Effective July 1, 2006, we sold five dental offices which were substantially all of the assets of Dental Net Group, one component of Principal Dental Services, Inc. The realized gain was reported in our Life and Health segment. ING/Principal Pensions Company Ltd. On May 26, 2005, we announced jointly with our partner, ING, the intent to liquidate the ING/Principal Pensions Company, Ltd. operation in Japan. On December 20, 2005, the liquidation process was completed with a formal liquidation filing to the Japanese corporate registry. The results of ING/Principal Pensions Company Ltd. were reported in our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment. Real Estate Investments. In 2005 and 2006, we sold certain real estate properties previously held for investment purposes. These properties qualify for discontinued operations treatment; therefore, the income from discontinued operations has been removed from our results of continuing operations for all periods presented. The gains on disposal are reported as other after tax adjustments in our Corporate and Other segment. All assets, including cash, and liabilities of the discontinued operations have been reclassified to separate discontinued asset and liability line items on the consolidated statements of financial position. We have separately disclosed the operating, investing and financing portions of the cash flows attributable to our discontinued operations in our consolidated statements of cash flows. The properties were sold to take advantage of positive real estate market conditions in specific geographic locations and to further diversify our real estate portfolio. 37 Selected financial information for the discontinued operations related to our real estate investments is as follows: December 31, 2006 2005 (in millions) Assets Real estate $ $ 99.3 All other assets 3.9 Total assets $ $ 103.2 Liabilities All other liabilities $ $ 4.5 Total liabilities $ $ 4.5 For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (in millions) Total revenues $ (0.5 ) $ 2.8 $ 2.5 Income from discontinued operations: Income (loss) before income taxes $ (0.5 ) $ 2.8 $ 2.5 Income taxes (benefits) (0.2 ) 1.0 0.9 Gain on disposal of discontinued operations 47.5 34.3 Income taxes on disposal 16.6 12.0 Net income $ 30.6 $ 24.1 $ 1.6 Principal International Argentina S.A. On July 2, 2004, we closed the sale of PI Argentina, our subsidiary in Argentina, and its wholly owned subsidiaries, Principal Life Compa&ntilde;&iacute;a de Seguros, S.A. and Principal Retiro Compa&ntilde;&iacute;a de Seguros de Retiro, S.A. Our total after tax proceeds from the sale were approximately U.S. $29.2 million. The decision to sell PI Argentina was made with a view toward focusing our resources, executing in core strategic priorities and markets and meeting stockholders expectations. Changing market dynamics since the 2001 economic crisis in Argentina led us to conclude that the interests of our stockholders would best be served by our exit of this market. PI Argentina qualified for discontinued operations treatment, therefore, the income from discontinued operations has been removed from our results of continuing operations and segment operating earnings for all periods presented in our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment. We have separately disclosed the operating, investing and financing portions of the cash flows attributable to our discontinued operations in our consolidated statements of cash flows. Selected financial information for the discontinued operations of PI Argentina is as follows: For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (in millions) Total revenues $ $ $ 5.8 Income from discontinued operations: Income before income taxes(1) $ $ $ 0.3 Income taxes(1) 0.1 Loss on disposal of discontinued operations (15.9 ) Income tax benefits on disposal (25.7 ) Net income $ $ $ 10.0 (1)The 2004 summary results of operations information is for the six months ended prior to the July 2, 2004, sale of PI Argentina and, accordingly, there is no statement of operations data to present subsequent to the date of the sale. 38 Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. On July 1, 2004, we closed the sale of Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. to CitiMortgage, Inc. Our total after tax proceeds from the sale were approximately $620.0 million. Our Mortgage Banking segment, which includes Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc., is accounted for as a discontinued operation, and therefore, the income from discontinued operations (excluding corporate overhead) has been removed from our results of continuing operations and segment operating earnings for all periods presented. We have separately disclosed the operating, investing and financing portions of the cash flows attributable to our discontinued operations in our consolidated statements of cash flows. Corporate overhead allocated to our Mortgage Banking segment does not qualify for discontinued operations treatment and is included in our results of continuing operations and segment operating earnings for all periods prior to July 1, 2004. The decision to sell Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. was made with a view toward intensifying our strategic focus on our core retirement and risk protection business as well as achieving our longer term financial objectives. In addition, the sale was also viewed as a positive move for our stockholders as it allows us to move forward from an improved capital position, with better financial flexibility and greater stability of earnings. Selected financial information for the discontinued operations of our Mortgage Banking segment is as follows: For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (in millions) Total revenues $ $ $ 446.1 Loss from continuing operations, net of related income taxes (represents corporate overhead) $ $ $ (10.3 ) Income (loss) from discontinued operations Income before income taxes 48.3 Income taxes 18.3 Gain (loss) on disposal of discontinued operations (1.7 ) 134.7 Income taxes relating to the disposal of discontinued operations 3.3 42.4 Income (loss) from discontinued operations, net of related income taxes (5.0 ) 122.3 Net income (loss) $ $ (5.0 ) $ 112.0 (1)The 2004 summary results of operations information is for the six months ended prior to the July 1, 2004, sale of Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. and, accordingly, there is no statement of operations data to present subsequent to the date of the sale. Our U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment held residential mortgage banking escrow deposits (reported as other liabilities) as of December 31, 2003. The purchaser (or acquirer) closed out the banking escrow deposit accounts as a result of the sale. U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation total revenues from this arrangement reclassified to discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2004 was $(5.6) million. Loss from discontinued operations net of related income taxes, for the year ended December 31, 2004, was $3.5 million. BT Financial Group. On October 31, 2002, we sold substantially all of BT Financial Group to Westpac. Our total after tax proceeds from the sale were approximately U.S. $900.0 million. This amount includes cash proceeds from Westpac, tax benefits and a gain from unwinding the hedged asset associated with our investment in BT Financial Group. The decision to sell BT Financial Group was made with a view toward focusing our resources, executing on core strategic priorities and meeting stockholder expectations. Changing market dynamics since our acquisition of BT Financial Group, including industry consolidation, led us to conclude that the interests of BT Financial Group clients and staff would be best served under Westpacs ownership. Changes to the loss on discontinued operations due to the close of a tax audit resulted in an increase to net income of $8.4 million in 2005. We have separately disclosed the operating, investing and financing portions of the cash flows attributable to our discontinued operations in our consolidated statements of cash flows. Other Principal Reinsurance Company of Vermont. In November 2006, Principal Life established a wholly owned reinsurance subsidiary, Principal Reinsurance Company of Vermont, which reinsures a portion of our universal life "secondary" or "no lapse" guarantee provisions through an intercompany reinsurance agreement with Principal Life. The transaction, which was accompanied with a third party letter of credit issued to PVT and guaranteed by PFG, reduced our statutory capital requirements and allowed us to redeploy capital for other general corporate purposes. 39 Senior Note Issuance. On October 16 and December 5, 2006, we issued $500.0 million and $100.0 million, respectively, of senior notes from our shelf registration, which was filed with the SEC in December 2003. The notes will bear interest at a rate of 6.05% per year. Interest on the notes is payable semi annually on April 15 and October 15, beginning on April 15, 2007. The notes will mature on October 15, 2036. A portion of the proceeds was used to fund the acquisition of WM Advisors, Inc., with the remaining proceeds being used for general corporate purposes. SBB Mutual Berhad and SBB Asset Management Sdn Bhd. On October 30, 2006, our joint venture company in Malaysia, CIMB Principal, announced its intention to purchase the mutual fund and asset management companies of the former Southern Bank Bhd ("SBB"), SBB Mutual Berhad and SBB Asset Management Sdn Bhd. On February 5, 2007, we invested an additional RM$192.4 million Malaysian ringgits ("RM$") (approximately U.S. $55.1 million) to retain our 40% ownership interest in the larger CIMB Principal. Fluctuations in Foreign Currency to U.S. Dollar Exchange Rates Fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates for countries in which we have operations can affect reported financial results. In years when foreign currencies weaken against the U.S. dollar, translating foreign currencies into U.S. dollars results in fewer U.S. dollars to be reported. When foreign currencies strengthen, translating foreign currencies into U.S. dollars results in more U.S. dollars to be reported. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations create variances in our financial statement line items but have not had a material impact on our consolidated income from continuing operations. Our consolidated income from continuing operations was positively impacted $5.4 million, $7.1 million and $1.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004 respectively as a result of fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates. For a discussion of our approaches to foreign currency exchange rate risk, see Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk." Stock Based Compensation Plans As of December 31, 2006, we have the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan, the Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the 2005 Directors Stock Plan, the Stock Incentive Plan, the Directors Stock Plan and the Long Term Performance Plan ("Stock Based Compensation Plans"). As of May 17, 2005, no new grants will be made under the Stock Incentive Plan, the Directors Stock Plan or the Long Term Performance Plan. Under the terms of the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan, grants may be nonqualified stock options, incentive stock options qualifying under Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code, restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, performance shares, performance units, or other stock based awards. The 2005 Directors Stock Plan provides for the grant of nonqualified stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, or other stock based awards to our nonemployee directors. To date, we have not granted any incentive stock options, restricted stock or performance units. The compensation cost that was charged against income for the Stock Based Compensation Plans was $65.5 million, $52.2 million and $47.5 million, and the related income tax benefit recognized in the income statement was $21.3 million, $16.9 million and $15.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. For awards with graded vesting, we use an accelerated expense attribution method. The total compensation cost capitalized as part of the cost of an asset was $3.4 million, $1.6 million and $2.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. Beginning in 2006, we granted performance share awards to certain employees under the 2005 Stock Incentive Plan. The performance share awards are treated as an equity award and are paid in shares. Whether the performance shares are earned depends upon the participants continued employment through the performance period (except in the case of an approved retirement) and our performance against three year goals set at the beginning of the performance period. A return on equity objective and an earnings per share objective must be achieved for any of the performance shares to be earned. If the performance requirements are not met, the performance shares will be forfeited and no compensation cost is recognized and any previously recognized compensation cost is reversed. There is no maximum contractual term on these awards. The total compensation cost related to nonvested awards not yet recognized is $40.5 million. This compensation cost is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of approximately 1.8 years. Pension and 401(k) Benefit Expense Effective January 1, 2006, we made changes to our retirement program, including the Principal Select Savings Plan ("401(k)") and the Principal Pension Plan ("Pension Plan") and the corresponding nonqualified plans. The qualified and nonqualified Pension Plans changes include a reduction to the traditional and cash balance formulas, a change in the early retirement factors, and the removal of the cost of living adjustments for traditional benefits earned after January 1, 2006. The qualified and nonqualified 401(k) Plans company match increased from 50% of a 6% deferral to 75% of an 8% deferral. The Pension Plan changes reduced the Pension Plan expense in 2006, while the 401(k) changes increased the 401(k) expense. 40 The 2006 annual pension benefit expense for substantially all of our employees and certain agents was $34.6 million pre tax, which was a $14.0 million decrease from the 2005 pre tax pension expense of $48.6 million. This decrease is due to the reduction in the Pension Plan formulas and asset performance in excess of our 8.5% long term assumption. Partially offsetting this was an increase attributable to the use of a lower discount rate and lower long term asset return assumption. The discount rate used to develop the 2006 expense was lowered to 5.75%, down from the 6.0% discount rate used to develop the 2005 expense. The long term asset assumption was also lowered to 8.25%, down from the 8.50% assumption used to develop the 2005 expense. The 2006 decrease in pension expense was offset by an approximately $19.7 million increase in the qualified and nonqualified 401(k) Plans company matching expense resulting from the January 1, 2006 changes. The 2007 annual pension benefit expense for substantially all of our employees and certain agents is expected to be $24.0 million pre tax, which is a $10.6 million decrease from the 2006 pre tax pension expense of $34.6 million. This decrease is due to the increase in discount rate and asset performance in excess of our 8.25% assumption. The discount rate used to develop the 2007 expense was raised to 6.15%, up from the 5.75% discount rate used to develop the 2006 expense. The long term asset assumption remained at 8.25%. Recent Accounting Changes For recent accounting changes, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1 Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies." Results of Operations The following table presents summary consolidated financial information for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (in millions) Revenues: Premiums and other considerations $ 4,305.3 $ 3,975.0 $ 3,710.0 Fees and other revenues 1,902.5 1,717.8 1,491.7 Net investment income 3,618.0 3,360.1 3,224.0 Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses) 44.7 (11.2 ) (104.8 ) Total revenues 9,870.5 9,041.7 8,320.9 Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses 5,692.4 5,282.9 4,959.5 Dividends to policyholders 290.7 293.0 296.7 Operating expenses 2,558.7 2,342.1 2,185.6 Total expenses 8,541.8 7,918.0 7,441.8 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 1,328.7 1,123.7 879.1 Income taxes 295.0 232.2 178.2 Income from continuing operations, net of related income taxes 1,033.7 891.5 700.9 Income from discontinued operations, net of related income taxes 30.6 27.5 130.4 Income before cumulative effect of accounting changes 1,064.3 919.0 831.3 Cumulative effect of accounting change, net of related income taxes (5.7 ) Net income 1,064.3 919.0 825.6 Preferred stock dividends 33.0 17.7 Net income available to common stockholders $ 1,031.3 $ 901.3 $ 825.6 Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 Premiums and other considerations increased $330.3 million, or 8%, to $4,305.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $3,975.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase reflected a $331.6 million increase from the Life and Health segment primarily due to strong sales and stable retention in our specialty benefits business and growth in our health insurance business. 41  Fees and other revenues increased $184.7 million, or 11%, to $1,902.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $1,717.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation fees and other revenues increased $192.1 million primarily related to an increase in account values stemming from continued strong net cash flow and strong performance in the equity markets resulting in an increase in asset management fees. Net investment income increased $257.9 million, or 8%, to $3,618.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $3,360.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase was related to a $2,331.9 million, or 4%, increase in average invested assets and cash and to an increase in annualized investment yields. The yield on average invested assets and cash was 6.0% for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 5.8% for the year ended December 31, 2005. Net realized/unrealized capital gains increased $55.9 million to $44.7 million of net realized/unrealized capital gains for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $11.2 million of net realized/unrealized capital losses for the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase in net realized gains was due to the gain on the sale of stock of an equity method investment ($44.3 million), fewer losses on the mark to market adjustment related to derivatives activities ($15.2 million), the non recurrence of an impairment of an equity partnership interest ($14.4 million), the recovery of previously impaired securities as the result of a litigation claim received in 2006 ($12.9 million), more gains from the mark to market and sales of activities of equity securities ($12.5 million), fewer losses on credit triggered bond sales ($7.3 million), a software impairment in 2005 with no corresponding activity in 2006 ($5.9 million), and more gains as the result of the mark to market of certain seed money investments ($4.4 million). Offsetting these increases were more other than temporary declines in the value of fixed maturity securities resulting from the determination that we no longer had the ability and intent to hold these securities until recovery due to our need to finance the acquisition of WM Advisors ($12.4 million) and a large recovery of previously impaired securities as the result of a litigation settlement that occurred in 2005 ($52.1 million). The following table highlights the contributors to net realized/unrealized capital gains and losses for the year ended December 31, 2006. For the year ended December 31, 2006 Impairments and credit losses Other gains (losses) Hedging adjustments Net realized/ unrealized capital gains (losses) (in millions) Fixed maturity securities(1) $ (32.1 ) $ 10.0 $ (14.6 ) $ (36.7 ) Fixed maturity securities, trading 1.0 1.0 Equity securities(2) 1.0 22.4 23.4 Mortgage loans on real estate(3) 2.4 2.4 Derivatives (4.7 ) (4.7 ) Other(4) 64.3 (5.0 ) 59.3 Total $ (28.7 ) $ 97.7 $ (24.3 ) $ 44.7 (1)Impairments include $14.6 million of credit impairment write downs and $16.5 million in realized credit recoveries on the sale of previously impaired assets. As the result of the need to fund the acquisition of WM Advisors, impairments also include $12.4 million of write downs that resulted from our determination that we no longer had the ability and intent to hold certain fixed maturity securities until they recovered in value. This loss is net of the recovery realized on the subsequent sale of the securities. Credit losses include $0.6 million in realized gains and $22.2 million in realized losses related to credit triggered sales. Other gains (losses) include $5.9 million in net gains as the result of prepayment activity, gross realized gains of $12.1 million and gross realized losses of $8.0 million. Included in the gross realized losses of $8.0 million is $6.3 million that resulted from the sale of certain hybrid securities that had a regulatory classification change that resulted in increased capital requirements. (2)Impairments include $1.0 million in realized recoveries on sale of previously impaired assets. Other gains (losses) include $21.8 million in mark to market of net realized/unrealized gains on trading equity securities, gross realized gains of $1.4 million and gross realized losses of $0.8 million. (3)Impairments include $2.5 million in realized losses due to the sale of commercial mortgage loans, $3.6 million in realized recoveries on the sale of previously impaired commercial mortgage loans, a $2.1 million decrease in the commercial mortgage valuation allowance, and a $0.7 million increase in the residential mortgage valuation allowance held by our international operations. 42 (4)Other gains (losses) include a $44.3 million realized gain on the sale of stock of an equity method investment and $16.2 million in mark to market of net realized/unrealized gains on certain seed money investments. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $409.5 million, or 8%, to $5,692.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $5,282.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase was primarily due to a $290.1 million increase from the Life and Health Insurance segment, primarily due to growth in the our specialty benefits and health insurance businesses. The increase also reflected a $130.9 million increase from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily due to an increase in cost of interest credited, higher benefit payments, and an increase in reserves stemming from an increase in sales related to our payout annuities with life contingencies. Dividends to policyholders decreased $2.3 million, or 1%, to $290.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $293.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease was due to a $4.1 million decrease from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment related to our participating pension full service accumulation products. The lower dividends were primarily due to lower dividend payouts stemming from a lower interest rate environment and a dividend reserve methodology change implemented in the second quarter of 2006. Partially offsetting the decrease was a $1.8 million increase in dividends to policyholders from the Life and Health Insurance segment related to the dividend scale changes effective in February 2006. Operating expenses increased $216.6 million, or 9%, to $2,558.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $2,342.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase reflected a $124.7 million increase from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily due to increases in staff related costs, management fees paid and DPAC amortization. The increase was also primarily due to a $39.7 million increase from the Life and Health Insurance segment primarily resulting from growth in our specialty benefits and insured medical businesses partially offset by lower DPAC amortization from the individual universal and variable universal life business. In addition, the increase reflected a $36.3 million increase from the Corporate and Other segment, primarily due to a contribution to the Principal Financial Group Foundation, Inc., an increase in interest expense related to issuance of corporate debt, and increased interest expense on federal income tax activities. Income taxes increased $62.8 million, or 27%, to $295.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $232.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The effective income tax rate was 22% for the year ended December 31, 2006, and 21% for the year ended December 31, 2005. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2006 was lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35% primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received, interest exclusion from taxable income, and tax refinements in Mexico and Chile. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2005 was lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35% primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received, tax credits on our investment in a synthetic fuel production facility, and interest exclusion from taxable income. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of income from discontinued operations, net of related income taxes, net income increased $145.3 million, or 16% to $1,064.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $919.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. In 2006, the income from discontinued operations was related to our sale of certain real estate properties previously held for investment purposes. In 2005, the income from discontinued operations was related to gains on the sales and operating revenues of real estate properties that qualify for discontinued operations treatment and changes to the estimated loss on the disposal of BT Financial Group partially offset by the negative impact of a change in the estimated gain from the discontinued operations for Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. Preferred stock dividends increased $15.3 million, or 86%, to $33.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $17.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The preferred stock dividends increase was a result of issuing preferred stock in June 2005. Net income available to common stockholders increased $130.0 million, or 14%, to $1,031.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $901.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 Premiums and other considerations increased $265.0 million, or 7%, to $3,975.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $3,710.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase was primarily due to a $170.5 million increase from the Life and Health Insurance segment, primarily related to strong sales and stable persistency in our specialty benefits business and higher premium per member in our health insurance business partially offset by a decline in premiums resulting from the continuation of a shift in marketing emphasis from individual traditional life insurance products to individual universal and variable universal life insurance products. The increase also reflected an $85.1 million increase from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily a result of an increase in premiums from single premium group annuities with life contingencies, which are typically used to fund defined benefit pension plan terminations. The premium income we receive from these contracts fluctuates due to the variability in the number and size of pension plan terminations in the market, the interest rate environment and our ability to attract new sales. 43 Fees and other revenues increased $226.1 million, or 15%, to $1,717.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $1,491.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase was primarily due to a $194.1 million increase from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment primarily related to an increase in account values and assets under management, modest performance in the equity markets and our acquisitions of Principal Services Trust Company and Columbus Circle. Net investment income increased $136.1 million, or 4%, to $3,360.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $3,224.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase was primarily related to a $2,343.2 million, or 4%, increase in average invested assets and cash. The yield on average invested assets and cash was 5.8% for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Net realized/unrealized capital losses decreased $93.6 million, or 89%, to $11.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $104.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease is due to fewer other than temporary impairments of fixed maturity securities ($90.2 million) including a $52.1 million recovery of previously impaired securities received as the result of a litigation settlement, fewer losses related to the mark to market of derivative activities ($56.8 million), and gains versus losses on mortgage loans and real estate ($24.5 million) offset in part by fewer mark to market gains on certain seed money investments ($30.4 million), fewer gains on the sales of other fixed maturity securities ($13.9 million), more credit losses related to the sales of fixed maturity securities ($23.3 million), and the impairment of an equity partnership interest ($14.4 million). The following table highlights the contributors to net realized/unrealized capital gains and losses for the year ended December 31, 2005. For the year ended December 31, 2005 Impairments and credit losses Other gains (losses) Hedging adjustments Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses) (in millions) Fixed maturity securities(1) $ 16.6 $ 10.6 $ (45.8 ) $ (18.6 ) Fixed maturity securities, trading (2.4 ) (2.4 ) Equity securities(2) (3.0 ) 9.9 6.9 Mortgage loans on real estate(3) 1.3 1.3 Derivatives 17.2 17.2 Other(4) (14.4 ) 9.8 (11.0 ) (15.6 ) Total $ 0.5 $ 27.9 $ (39.6 ) $ (11.2 ) (1)Impairments include $28.6 million of credit impairment write downs and $74.0 million in realized credit recoveries on the sale of previously impaired assets. Credit losses include $2.0 million in realized gains and $30.8 million in realized losses related to credit triggered sales. Other gains (losses) include $16.2 million in net gains as the result of prepayment activity, gross realized gains of $21.5 million and gross realized losses of $27.1 million. Included in the $27.1 million of losses is an $11.0 million loss related to a large investment that was called from us in September. (2)Impairments include $3.0 million of credit impairment write downs. Other gains (losses) include $9.3 million in mark to market of net realized/unrealized gains on trading equity securities, gross realized gains of $3.1 million and gross realized losses of $2.5 million. (3)Impairments include $6.3 million in realized losses due to the sale of commercial mortgage loans and a $7.6 million decrease in the commercial mortgage valuation allowance. (4)Impairments include $14.4 million in realized losses related to an equity partnership interest. Other gains (losses) include $11.8 million in mark to market of net realized/unrealized gains on certain seed money investments. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $323.4 million, or 7%, to $5,282.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $4,959.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase was primarily due to a $165.6 million increase from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily reflecting the increase in reserves resulting from an increase in sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies and an increase in interest credited on our investment only block of business stemming from an increase in account values. The increase also reflected a $105.5 million increase from the Life and Health Insurance segment, primarily due to increased claim costs per medical member, an increase in medical members, and growth in the specialty benefits business. 44 Dividends to policyholders decreased $3.7 million, or 1%, to $293.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $296.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease was primarily due to a $3.3 million decrease from the Life and Health Insurance segment, resulting from a declining interest rate environment. Operating expenses increased $156.5 million, or 7%, to $2,342.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $2,185.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase reflected a $160.4 million increase from the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily due to growth in our asset management business, an increase in compensation costs and due to our acquisitions of Principal Services Trust Company and Columbus Circle. Income taxes increased $54.0 million, or 30%, to $232.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $178.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The effective income tax rate was 21% for the year ended December 31, 2005, and 20% for the year ended December 31, 2004. The effective income tax rates for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, were lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35% primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received, tax credits on our investment in a synthetic fuel production facility, and interest exclusion from taxable income. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of income from discontinued operations and the cumulative effect of accounting change, net of related income taxes, net income increased $93.4 million, or 11%, to $919.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $825.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The income from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2005, was related to gains on the sales and operating revenues of real estate properties that qualify for discontinued operations treatment and changes to the estimated loss on the disposal of BT Financial Group partially offset by the negative impact of a change in the estimated gain from the discontinued operations for Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. The income from discontinued operations for the year ended December 31, 2004, was related to our sale of Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc., the sale of our Argentine companies, and operating revenues of real estate properties that qualify for discontinued operations treatment. The cumulative effect of accounting change was related to our implementation of Statement of Position 03 1 Accounting and Reporting by Insurance Enterprises for Certain Nontraditional Long Duration Contracts and for Separate Accounts in 2004. Preferred stock dividends were $17.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, with no corresponding activity for the year ended December 31, 2004. Net income available to common stockholders increased $75.7 million, or 9%, to $901.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $825.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Results of Operations by Segment We use segment operating earnings, which exclude the effect of net realized/unrealized capital gains and losses, as adjusted, and other after tax adjustments, for goal setting, determining employee compensation, and evaluating performance on a basis comparable to that used by securities analysts. Segment operating earnings are determined by adjusting U.S. GAAP net income available to common stockholders for net realized/unrealized capital gains and losses, as adjusted, and other after tax adjustments we believe are not indicative of overall operating trends. Note that after tax adjustments have occurred in the past and could recur in future reporting periods. While these items may be significant components in understanding and assessing our consolidated financial performance, we believe the presentation of segment operating earnings enhances the understanding of our results of operations by highlighting earnings attributable to the normal, ongoing operations of our businesses. 45 The following table presents segment information as of or for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004: As of or for the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (in millions) Operating revenues by segment U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation $ 4,511.6 $ 4,133.8 $ 3,761.6 International Asset Management and Accumulation 605.4 604.5 518.4 Life and Health Insurance 4,736.2 4,387.5 4,181.3 Corporate and Other(1) (27.4 ) (59.1 ) (23.0 ) Total segment operating revenues 9,825.8 9,066.7 8,438.3 Add: Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses), including recognition of front end fee revenues and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues(2) 44.2 (22.2 ) (114.9 ) Subtract: Operating revenues from discontinued real estate investments (0.5 ) 2.8 2.5 Total revenue per consolidated statements of operations $ 9,870.5 $ 9,041.7 $ 8,320.9 Operating earnings (loss) by segment, net of related income taxes: U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation $ 645.1 $ 538.4 $ 499.0 International Asset Management and Accumulation 71.8 71.0 40.3 Life and Health Insurance 282.5 274.4 256.2 Mortgage Banking(3) (10.3 ) Corporate and Other (27.3 ) (21.4 ) (20.4 ) Total segment operating earnings, net of related income taxes 972.1 862.4 764.8 Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses), as adjusted(2) 18.0 (20.6 ) (62.3 ) Other after tax adjustments(4) 41.2 59.5 123.1 Net income available to common stockholders per consolidated statements of operations $ 1,031.3 $ 901.3 $ 825.6 Assets by segment: U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation(5) $ 117,950.0 $ 103,506.1 $ 94,394.6 International Asset Management and Accumulation 8,101.0 6,856.2 3,642.0 Life and Health Insurance 14,364.5 14,080.2 13,185.4 Corporate and Other(6) 3,242.6 2,592.9 2,576.1 Total consolidated assets $ 143,658.1 $ 127,035.4 $ 113,798.1 (1)Includes inter segment eliminations primarily related to internal investment management fee revenues and commission fee revenues paid to U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation agents for selling Life and Health Insurance segment insurance products. (2)In addition to sales activity and other than temporary impairments, net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses) include unrealized gains (losses) on mark to market changes in certain seed money investments and investments classified as trading securities, as well as unrealized gains (losses) on certain derivatives. Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses), as adjusted, are net of income taxes, net realized capital gains and losses distributed, minority interest capital gains and losses, related changes in the amortization pattern of 46 deferred policy acquisition and sales inducement costs, recognition of front end fee revenues for sales charges on pension products and services and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues. For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (in millions) Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses) $ 44.7 $ (11.2 ) $ (104.8 ) Certain market value adjustments to fee revenues (1.3 ) (12.1 ) (8.0 ) Recognition of front end fee revenues 0.8 1.1 (2.1 ) Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses), including recognition of front end fee revenues and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues 44.2 (22.2 ) (114.9 ) Amortization of deferred policy acquisition and sales inducement costs related to net realized capital gains (losses) 5.4 (0.7 ) 6.2 Capital gains distributed (11.8 ) (5.8 ) (4.4 ) Minority interest capital gains (7.7 ) (2.5 ) (0.3 ) Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses), including recognition of front end fee revenues and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues, net of related amortization of deferred policy acquisition costs and sales inducement costs, capital gains distributed, and minority interest capital gains 30.1 (31.2 ) (113.4 ) Income tax effect (12.1 ) 10.6 51.1 Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses), as adjusted $ 18.0 $ (20.6 ) $ (62.3 ) (3)Corporate overhead allocated to our Mortgage Banking segment does not qualify for discontinued operations treatment and was included in our results of continuing operations and segment operating earnings prior to July 1, 2004. (4)For the year ended December 31, 2006, other after tax adjustments of $41.2 million included (1) the positive effects of: income from discontinued operations related to (a) a gain on the sale of a real estate property that qualifies for discontinued operations treatment ($30.9 million) and (b) a favorable court ruling on a contested IRS issue for 1991 and later years ($18.8 million) and (2) the negative effect of a contribution to the Principal Financial Group Foundation, Inc. ($8.5 million). For the year ended December 31, 2005, other after tax adjustments of $59.5 million included (1) the positive effects of: (a) a release of income tax reserves related to IRS tax matters ($33.8 million); (b) gains on sales of real estate properties that qualify for discontinued operations treatment ($22.3 million) and (c) a change in the estimated loss on disposal of BT Financial Group ($8.4 million) and (2) the negative effect from a change in the estimated gain on disposal of Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. ($5.0 million). For the year ended December 31, 2004, other after tax adjustments of $123.1 million included (1) the positive effects of: (a) the discontinued operations and estimated gain on disposal of Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. ($118.8 million) and (b) the discontinued operations and estimated gain on disposal of our Argentine companies ($10.0 million) and (2) the negative effect from a cumulative change in accounting principle related to the implementation of SOP 03 1 ($5.7 million). (5)U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation separate account assets include shares of the Principal Financial Group stock allocated to a separate account, a result of our demutualization. The value of the separate account was $768.4 million, $726.6 million, and $782.8 million at December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. Changes in the fair value of the separate account are reflected in both separate account assets and separate account liabilities. (6)Includes inter segment elimination amounts related to an internal line of credit and internally generated mortgage loans. The Corporate and Other segment managed a revolving line of credit used by other segments. The U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment and Life and Health Insurance segment reported mortgage loan assets issued for real estate joint ventures. These mortgage loans were reported as liabilities in the Corporate and Other segment. U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation Segment Asset Accumulation Trends Our sales of pension, institutional and other asset accumulation products and services in the U.S. have been affected by overall trends in the U.S. retirement services industry, as our customers rely less on defined benefit retirement plans, 47 social security and other government programs. Continuing trends in the work environment include a more mobile workforce and the desire of employers to shift the market risk of retirement investments to employees by offering defined contribution plans rather than defined benefit plans. The graying of the population and recent market volatility are also driving growing interest in products generating stable income during retirement. These trends are increasing the demand for defined contribution pension arrangements such as 401(k) plans, mutual funds, annuities and bank IRAs. The "baby boom" generation of U.S. workers has reached an age at which saving for retirement is critical and it continues to seek increased retirement savings using additional tax advantaged investment products for retirement. Considering these trends, asset accumulation account values increased as of December 31, 2006, primarily due to significant additional gross new deposits, solid performance of the equity markets and retention of assets from existing clients. The interest rate environment remained relatively low despite an increase in interest rates that was more pronounced at the shorter durations. The S&P 500 posted a 15.8% total return contributing to a strong increase in total account values and assets under management by the end of 2006. The following table provides a summary of U.S. Asset Accumulation account values as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004: As of U.S. Asset Accumulation Total account values (in billions) December 31, 2006 $ 163.3 December 31, 2005 120.3 December 31, 2004 108.6 Asset Management Trends Asset management services have been among the most profitable and rapidly growing sectors of the financial services industry, at both the retail and institutional level. We seek to take advantage of current trends, which indicate that both retail and institutional investors embrace specialization, providing increased fees to successful active managers with expertise in specialty and niche areas. We have experienced very good success in winning institutional asset management mandates and expect to see continued growth in this area. Our U.S. third party assets under management increased $18.0 billion during 2006. The following table provides a summary of Principal Global Investors affiliated and third party assets under management as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004: Principal Global Investors As of Affiliated assets under management Third party assets under management Total assets under management (in billions) December 31, 2006 $ 132.3 $ 59.1 $ 191.4 December 31, 2005 103.4 41.1 144.5 December 31, 2004 97.0 29.4 126.4 48  U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation Segment Summary Financial Data The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (in millions) Operating Earnings Data: Operating revenues(1): Premiums and other considerations $ 462.3 $ 455.2 $ 370.1 Fees and other revenues 1,412.5 1,230.9 1,035.9 Net investment income 2,636.8 2,447.7 2,355.6 Total operating revenues 4,511.6 4,133.8 3,761.6 Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses, including dividends to policyholders 2,392.1 2,265.3 2,099.8 Operating expenses 1,288.4 1,167.9 1,014.2 Total expenses 3,680.5 3,433.2 3,114.0 Operating earnings before income taxes 831.1 700.6 647.6 Income taxes 186.0 162.2 148.6 Operating earnings 645.1 538.4 499.0 Net realized/unrealized capital losses, as adjusted (23.1 ) (12.8 ) (97.1 ) Other after tax adjustments (5.0 ) U.S. GAAP Reported: Net income available to common stockholders $ 622.0 $ 525.6 $ 396.9 (1)Excludes net realized/unrealized capital losses and their impact on recognition of front end fee revenues and certain market value adjustments to fee revenues. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 Premiums and other considerations increased $7.1 million, or 2%, to $462.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $455.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase resulted from a $44.9 million increase in individual payout annuity business primarily due to increased sales from certain distribution channels. Partially offsetting the overall increase was a $37.8 million decrease in full service payout sales primarily related to single premium group annuities with life contingencies, which are typically used to fund defined benefit plan terminations. The premium income received from these contracts fluctuates due to the variability in the number and size of pension plan terminations, the interest rate environment and the ability to attract new sales. Fees and other revenues increased $181.6 million, or 15%, to $1,412.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $1,230.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Full service accumulation fees and other revenue increased $98.9 million primarily due to an increase in account values stemming from continued strong net cash flow and strong performance in the equity markets. Principal Global Investors fees and other revenues increased $49.0 million primarily due to continued growth in management fees related to our real estate, fixed income and equity businesses. In addition, our mutual fund fees and other revenue contributed $29.0 million to the segment increase primarily due to higher management fees stemming from an increase in average assets under management and increased sales. Net investment income increased $189.1 million, or 8%, to $2,636.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $2,447.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase reflects an increase in the average annualized yield on invested assets and cash, which was 5.9% for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 5.7% for the year ended December 31, 2005. In addition, the increase in net investment income resulted from a $1,860.3 million, or 4%, increase in average invested assets and cash for the segment. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses, including dividends to policyholders, increased $126.8 million, or 6%, to $2,392.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $2,265.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase primarily resulted from an $82.6 million increase in our individual annuity business due to several factors, including an increase in cost of interest credited, higher benefit payments, and an increase in reserves stemming from an increase in sales related to our payout annuities with life contingencies. In addition, our investment only benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $68.9 million primarily due to an increase in cost of interest credited on this block of business as a result of an increase in account values and an increase in the rate of interest credited, as a result of market 49 conditions. Partially offsetting the overall increase was a $35.2 million decrease in our full service payout business as a result of decreased sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies. Operating expenses increased $120.5 million, or 10%, to $1,288.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $1,167.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase primarily resulted from a $66.1 million increase in our full service accumulation operating expenses due to increases in staff related costs, management fees paid and DPAC amortization. In addition, Principal Global Investors operating expenses increased $27.8 million due to an increase in expenses associated with growth in average assets under management and, to a lesser extent, the fact that expenses associated with the origination of securitized mortgages are now expensed rather than deferred and recognized as a reduction in securitization revenue, as was the case prior to the U.S. Bank joint venture. Furthermore, individual annuity operating expenses increased $15.4 million primarily due to strong growth in our block of business. Income taxes increased $23.8 million, or 15%, to $186.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $162.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The effective income tax rate for this segment was 22% for the year ended December 31, 2006, and 23% for the year ended December 31, 2005. The effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, were lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35%, as a result of income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received and interest exclusion from taxable income. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings increased $106.7 million, or 20%, to $645.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $538.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Net realized/unrealized capital losses, as adjusted, increased $10.3 million, or 80%, to $23.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $12.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase in net realized losses was due to a $24.3 million recovery of previously impaired securities in 2005 as the result of litigation. In addition, the increase was due to fewer gains on commercial mortgages offset by fewer mark to market losses related to derivatives activities, the recovery of previously impaired securities as the result of a litigation claim received in 2006, more gains from the mark to market and sales activities of equity securities, and fewer other than temporary declines in the value of certain fixed maturity securities. As a result of the foregoing factors net income available to common stockholders increased $96.4 million, or 18%, to $622.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $525.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 Premiums and other considerations increased $85.1 million, or 23%, to $455.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $370.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase primarily resulted from a $61.2 million increase in full service payout sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies, which are typically used to fund defined benefit plan terminations. The premium income received from these contracts fluctuates due to the variability in the number and size of pension plan terminations, the interest rate environment and the ability to attract new sales. In addition, individual fixed annuity premiums and other considerations increased $23.9 million due to increased sales from certain distribution channels and due to higher sales of larger sized contracts in 2005. Fees and other revenues increased $195.0 million, or 19%, to $1,230.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $1,035.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Full service accumulation fees and other revenues increased $118.3 million primarily due to continued strong net cash flow, modest performance in the equity markets and our acquisition of Principal Services Trust Company. Also contributing to the overall increase was a $69.4 million increase in Principal Global Investors fees and other revenues, which was primarily due to our acquisition of Columbus Circle, higher real estate transaction fees, an increase in assets under management and an increase in loans securitized in 2005. Net investment income increased $92.1 million, or 4%, to $2,447.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $2,355.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase reflects a $1,749.6 million, or 4%, increase in average invested assets and cash for the segment. The average annualized yield on invested assets and cash was 5.7% for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses, including dividends to policyholders, increased $165.5 million, or 8%, to $2,265.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $2,099.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase primarily resulted from a $73.4 million increase in our full service payout business as a result of increased sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies. Also contributing to the increase was a $68.5 million increase in investment only business due primarily to an increase in interest credited on this block of business stemming from higher account values. In addition, individual annuity benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $56.3 million primarily due to an increase in cost of interest credited and amortization related to sale inducements associated with our deferred annuity business, higher benefit payments and an increase in reserves stemming from an increase in sales related to our life payout annuity business. Partially offsetting the overall increase was a $32.3 million decrease in full service accumulation benefits, claims and settlement expenses primarily due to lower interest credited on our non participating deposit type business and, to a lesser extent decreases in cost of interest credited on our participating block. Operating expenses increased $153.7 million, or 15%, to $1,167.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $1,014.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase primarily resulted from a $92.4 million 50 increase in full service accumulation operating expenses due to our acquisition of Principal Services Trust Company, an increase in compensation costs and an increase in amortization of DPAC in 2005. In addition, Principal Global Investors operating expenses increased $46.1 million primarily due to our acquisition of Columbus Circle, growth in existing operations and an increase in allocated expenses. Income taxes increased $13.6 million, or 9%, to $162.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $148.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The effective income tax rate for this segment was 23% for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004. The effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, were lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35%, as a result of income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received and interest exclusion from taxable income. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings increased $39.4 million, or 8%, to $538.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $499.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Net realized/unrealized capital losses, as adjusted, decreased $84.3 million, or 87%, to $12.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $97.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease is due to fewer other than temporary impairments of fixed maturity securities including a $24.3 million recovery of previously impaired securities received as the result of a litigation settlement, fewer losses related to the mark to market of derivative activities, and gains versus losses on mortgage loans offset in part by losses versus gains on the sale of fixed maturity securities. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of other after tax adjustments net income available to common stockholders increased $128.7 million, or 32%, to $525.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $396.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. For the year ended December 31, 2004, net income available to common stockholders included the negative effect of other after tax adjustments totaling $5.0 million related to: (1) a loss from discontinued operations associated with the sale of Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. ($3.5 million) and (2) a cumulative effect of accounting change due to our implementation of SOP 03 1 ($1.5 million). International Asset Management and Accumulation Segment Asset Accumulation Trends Our international asset management and accumulation businesses focus on countries with a trend toward private sector defined contribution pension systems, including privatization of public retirement pension systems. With variations depending upon the specific country, we have targeted these markets for sales of retirement and related products and services, including defined contribution pension plans, annuities and long term mutual funds to businesses and individuals. In some of our international markets, we complement our sales of these products with sales of life insurance products. We have pursued our international strategy through a combination of start ups, acquisitions and joint ventures, which require infusions of capital consistent with our strategy of long term growth and profitability. The following table provides a summary of our international asset management and accumulation businesss assets under management as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004: As of Principal International Total assets under management (in billions) December 31, 2006 $ 19.1 December 31, 2005 15.4 December 31, 2004 10.2 51 International Asset Management and Accumulation Segment Summary Financial Data The following table presents certain summary financial data of the International Asset Management and Accumulation segment for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (in millions) Operating Earnings Data: Operating revenues(1): Premiums and other considerations $ 239.1 $ 247.6 $ 241.0 Fees and other revenues 114.0 109.2 85.9 Net investment income 252.3 247.7 191.5 Total operating revenues 605.4 604.5 518.4 Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses 399.1 409.3 357.3 Operating expenses 144.5 128.7 112.2 Total expenses 543.6 538.0 469.5 Operating earnings before income taxes 61.8 66.5 48.9 Income taxes (benefits) (10.0 ) (4.5 ) 8.6 Operating earnings 71.8 71.0 40.3 Net realized/unrealized capital gains, as adjusted 10.3 8.1 17.3 Other after tax adjustments 6.7 U.S. GAAP Reported: Net income available to common stockholders $ 82.1 $ 79.1 $ 64.3 (1)Excludes net realized/unrealized capital gains. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 Premiums and other considerations decreased $8.5 million, or 3%, to $239.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $247.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease primarily resulted from a $19.5 million decrease in Mexico and Chile due to decreased sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies. Partially offsetting this decrease was an $11.0 million increase in Chile due to the strengthening of the peso versus the U.S. dollar. Fees and other revenues increased $4.8 million, or 4%, to $114.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $109.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Fees and other revenues in India and Hong Kong increased $4.8 million and $4.1 million, respectively,due to an increase in fees from growth in assets under management. In addition, fees and other revenues in Chile increased $2.2 million primarily due to growth in assets under management and increased fees from universal life insurance. Partially offsetting the increase was a $5.5 million decrease in Mexico primarily due to a refinement of accrued fee income in 2005. Net investment income increased $4.6 million, or 2%, to $252.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $247.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $367.8 million, or 14%, in average invested assets and cash, excluding our equity method investments, the strengthening of the Chilean peso and Brazilian real versus the U.S. dollar, and higher earnings from our equity method investments. Partially offsetting the increase was a decrease in the annualized yield on average invested assets and cash, excluding our equity method investments, which was 7.1% for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 8.5% for the year ended December 31, 2005. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $10.2 million, or 2%, to $399.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $409.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease primarily resulted from a $23.2 million decrease in Chile as a result of lower interest credited to customers. In addition, the decrease in reserves of $4.4 million in Mexico was a result of decreased sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies. Partially offsetting this decrease is an increase of $17.5 million due to the strengthening of the Chilean peso versus U.S. dollar. Operating expenses increased $15.8 million, or 12%, to $144.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $128.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase was primarily due to a $5.4 million increase in India due to higher compensation costs in the asset management company coupled with costs from PPIAC. Hong Kong operating expenses increased $2.9 million primarily due to increased incentive compensation costs, commission expenses, 52 and occupancy costs. Mexico operating expenses increased $1.7 million due to increased amortization related to a refinement of present value of future profits ("PVFP"), higher professional fees expenses and sales compensation in 2006. In addition, Chile operating expenses increased $1.5 million primarily due to increased compensation costs. Income tax benefits increased $5.5 million to $10.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $4.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase in income tax benefits was primarily due to tax refinements in Mexico and Chile. The increase was partially offset due to a tax benefit associated with the liquidation of the Japan joint venture in 2005 and the benefit from the American Jobs Creation Act in 2005 at International headquarters. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings increased $0.8 million, or 1%, to $71.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $71.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Net realized/unrealized capital gains, as adjusted, increased $2.2 million, or 27%, to $10.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $8.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase was primarily related to a $1.3 million increase in Mexico due to realized gains on fixed maturity securities. In addition, net realized/unrealized capital gains, as adjusted, increased $0.8 million in Chile. Unrealized gains on trading fixed maturities were partially offset by mark to market losses in 2006 on derivatives that are held to more effectively match the invested asset portfolio to our policyholder liability risks. As a result of the foregoing factors net income available to common stockholders increased $3.0 million, or 4%, to $82.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $79.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 Premiums and other considerations increased $6.6 million, or 3%, to $247.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $241.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase primarily resulted from an $18.4 million increase in Chile and Mexico due to the strengthening of the peso versus the U.S. dollar. Partially offsetting this increase was a $10.6 million decrease in Chile due to decreased sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies. Fees and other revenues increased $23.3 million, or 27%, to $109.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $85.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase was primarily due to a $15.3 million increase in Mexico resulting from a refinement of accrued fee income, improved net transfers of pension customers from competitors, and the strengthening of the peso versus the U.S. dollar. Futhermore, fees and other revenue in India increased $3.4 million due to an increase in fees from PPIAC that began operations in February 2005 and an increase in fees from growth in assets under management. In addition, fees and other revenue in Chile increased $3.3 million primarily due to an increase in mortgage loan servicing revenue, increased fees caused by growth in assets under management and the strengthening of the peso. Net investment income increased $56.2 million, or 29%, to $247.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $191.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase was primarily due to an increase of $473.5 million, or 22%, in average invested assets and cash, excluding our equity investments in subsidiaries. In addition, the increase was related to an increase in the annualized yield on average invested assets and cash, excluding our equity investments in subsidiaries, which was 8.5% for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 8.1% for the year ended December 31, 2004. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $52.0 million, or 15%, to $409.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $357.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase primarily resulted from a $54.5 million increase in Chile, the result of the strengthening of the peso versus the U.S. dollar, and higher interest credited to customers partially offset by a lower change in reserves due to a decrease in sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies in 2005. Operating expenses increased $16.5 million, or 15%, to $128.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $112.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase was primarily due to a $4.3 million increase in Chile and Mexico resulting from strengthening of the peso versus the U.S. dollar. In addition, Mexico operating expenses increased $3.0 million due to increased marketing efforts and asset retention training for agents and employees. Furthermore, Chile operating expenses increased $2.2 million due to the impact of an impairment of PVFP stemming from declining interest rates. Also, India operating expenses increased $2.3 million due to higher compensation costs in the asset management company coupled with costs from PPIAC, which started operations in February 2005. Finally, Hong Kong operating expenses increased $2.1 million primarily due to increased costs related to consolidation of our mutual fund products, marketing costs, and compensation costs as well as DPAC unlocking. Income tax benefits increased $13.1 million to an income tax benefit of $4.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from income tax expense of $8.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. A decrease of $8.9 million in Japan was primarily due to a tax benefit associated with the liquidation of the business in 2005. A decrease of $7.3 million at corporate headquarters was due to the benefit from the American Jobs Creation Act in 2005 and foreign dividend activity that generated tax expense in 2004. 53 As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings increased $30.7 million, or 76%, to $71.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $40.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Net realized/unrealized capital gains, as adjusted, decreased $9.2 million, or 53%, to $8.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $17.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease was primarily related to a $4.7 million decrease in Chile due to lower realized gains on derivatives that are held to more effectively match the invested asset portfolio to our policyholder liability risks. In addition, India net realized/unrealized capital gains, as adjusted, decreased $2.4 million due to a realized gain in 2004 on recovery of a previously impaired debt security. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of other after tax adjustments, net income available to common stockholders increased $14.8 million, or 23%, to $79.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $64.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. For the year ended December 31, 2004, net income included the positive effect of other after tax adjustments totaling $6.7 million, related to: (1) the positive effect of income from discontinued operations related to the sale of our Argentine companies ($10.0 million) and (2) the negative effect of cumulative effect of an accounting change related to the implementation of SOP 03 1 ($3.3 million). Life and Health Insurance Segment Individual Life Insurance Trends Our life insurance premiums have been influenced by both economic and industry trends. In addition, we have continued to shift our marketing emphasis to universal and variable universal life insurance products from traditional life insurance products. Due to this shift in marketing emphasis, premiums related to our traditional life insurance products have declined, while fee revenues from our universal and variable universal life insurance products have grown. The following table provides a summary of our individual universal and variable universal life insurance fee revenues and our individual traditional life insurance premiums for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004: Individual life insurance Individual universal and variable universal life insurance Individual traditional life insurance For the year ended Fee revenues Premiums (in millions) December 31, 2006 $ 225.3 $ 624.4 December 31, 2005 212.6 645.2 December 31, 2004 182.8 675.8 The following table provides a summary of our individual life insurance policyholder liabilities as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004: Individual life insurance Individual universal and variable universal life insurance Individual traditional life insurance As of Policyholder liabilities(1) Policyholder liabilities (in millions) December 31, 2006 $ 3,948.6 $ 5,921.5 December 31, 2005 3,493.8 5,955.4 December 31, 2004 2,880.0 6,042.2 (1)Includes separate account liabilities for policies with variable investment options. 54  Health Insurance Trends In 2006, we experienced good growth in group medical premium and fees and members due to improved pricing and market focus. While we continue to sell group medical business in 35 states plus the District of Columbia, we have sharpened our focus on 13 states. Premium revenue has grown due to both price and membership increases. The fee for service portion of our business had a drop in medical members and fees because of our competitive position in the market. Our fee for service offering is available in all 50 states plus the District of Columbia. Our health insurance premium and fees for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were as follows: Premium and fees For the year ended Group medical insurance Fee for service (in millions) December 31, 2006 $ 1,861.4 $ 172.5 December 31, 2005 1,676.5 176.6 December 31, 2004 1,586.9 178.8 Our covered members as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 were as follows: Covered medical members As of Group medical insurance Fee for service (in thousands) December 31, 2006 642.5 758.0 December 31, 2005 620.1 861.5 December 31, 2004 574.8 986.6 Specialty Benefits Insurance Trends Premium and fee growth for our specialty benefits insurance business is being driven by growing sales and stable retention. This has been a result of growing and more focused distribution supporting these product lines, increasing focus on marketing products to individuals at employer worksites ("voluntary/worksite"), and the introduction of new products. The following table provides a summary of our specialty benefits insurance premium and fees for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004: Premium and fees For the year ended Group dental and vision insurance Group life insurance Group disability insurance Individual disability insurance (in millions) December 31, 2006 $ 496.3 $ 310.4 $ 254.9 $ 141.6 December 31, 2005 434.5 259.9 200.3 130.8 December 31, 2004 383.2 239.1 170.1 113.3 55 Life and Health Insurance Segment Summary Financial Data The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the Life and Health Insurance segment for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (in millions) Operating Earnings Data: Operating revenues(1): Premiums and other considerations $ 3,598.7 $ 3,267.1 $ 3,096.6 Fees and other revenues 444.2 444.3 421.9 Net investment income 693.3 676.1 662.8 Total operating revenues 4,736.2 4,387.5 4,181.3 Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses 2,910.3 2,620.2 2,514.7 Dividends to policyholders 290.3 288.5 291.8 Operating expenses 1,110.8 1,066.3 988.7 Total expenses 4,311.4 3,975.0 3,795.2 Operating earnings before income taxes 424.8 412.5 386.1 Income taxes 142.3 138.1 129.9 Operating earnings 282.5 274.4 256.2 Net realized/unrealized capital losses, as adjusted (3.4 ) (2.3 ) (8.9 ) Other after tax adjustments (0.9 ) U.S. GAAP Reported: Net income available to common stockholders $ 279.1 $ 272.1 $ 246.4 (1)Excludes net realized/unrealized capital losses. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 Premiums and other considerations increased $331.6 million, or 10%, to $3,598.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $3,267.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Health insurance premiums increased $185.8 million, primarily from increased covered medical members and higher premium per member. Specialty benefits insurance premiums increased $180.4 million primarily due to strong sales and stable retention. Fees and other revenues decreased $0.1 million to $444.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $444.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Health insurance fees and other revenues decreased $8.0 million primarily due to a decrease in fee for service medical members. In addition, specialty benefits fees and other revenues decreased $2.7 million due to lower dental fees resulting from the sale of the dental offices in June 2006. Partially offsetting the decreases was a $10.6 million increase from our individual life insurance business primarily due to growth in our fee based universal and variable universal life insurance business. Net investment income increased $17.2 million, or 3%, to $693.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $676.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase primarily relates to an increase in the average annualized yield on invested assets and cash and to a $118.3 million, or 1%, increase in average invested assets and cash for the segment. The yield on average invested assets and cash was 6.3% for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 6.2% for the year ended December 31, 2005. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $290.1 million, or 11%, to $2,910.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $2,620.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Health insurance benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $155.1 million primarily due to higher claim costs per member and growth, somewhat offset by reserve refinements. Despite generally lower loss ratios, specialty benefits insurance benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $115.7 million, primarily due to growth in the business. Dividends to policyholders increased $1.8 million, or 1%, to $290.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $288.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase is primarily related to the dividend scale changes effective in February 2006. Operating expenses increased $44.5 million, or 4%, to $1,110.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $1,066.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Specialty benefits insurance operating expenses increased $46.1 million due to growth in the business. Health insurance operating expenses increased $25.5 million, primarily the 56 result of growth in the insured medical business. Partially offsetting these increases was a $27.1 million decrease in the individual life insurance operating expenses primarily due to lower DPAC amortization related to lower single premium sales and changes in claims experience in 2006. Income taxes increased $4.2 million, or 3%, to $142.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $138.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The effective income tax rate for the segment was 33% for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. The effective income tax rates for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, were lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35% primarily due to interest exclusion from taxable income. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings increased $8.1 million, or 3%, to $282.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $274.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Net realized/unrealized capital losses, as adjusted, increased $1.1 million, or 48%, to $3.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $2.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase primarily resulted from increased impairments in 2006 as the result of a change in our ability and intent to hold certain fixed maturity securities until recovery due to the need to fund our acquisition of WM Advisors, a $7.5 million recovery of previously impaired securities received in 2005 related to a litigation settlement, and more losses related to derivative activities. These increases were partially offset by gains in 2006 versus losses in 2005 on the sale and call activity of fixed maturity securities, a software impairment in 2005 with no corresponding activity in 2006, the recovery of previously impaired securities as the result of a litigation claim received in 2006, and increased DPAC amortization associated with losses on invested assets. As a result of the foregoing factors, net income available to common stockholders increased $7.0 million, or 3%, to $279.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $272.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 Premiums and other considerations increased $170.5 million, or 6%, to $3,267.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $3,096.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Specialty benefits insurance premiums increased $119.5 million primarily due to strong sales and steady retention. Health insurance premiums increased $94.9 million, primarily resulting from higher premium per member and an increase in average insured medical members. Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease of $43.9 million in individual life insurance premiums, primarily a result of the continuation of a shift in marketing emphasis to universal and variable universal life insurance products from traditional life insurance products and an increase in ceded reinsurance premium. Unlike traditional premium based products, individual universal and variable universal life insurance premiums are not reported as U.S. GAAP revenue. Fees and other revenues increased $22.4 million, or 5%, to $444.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $421.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Fee revenues from our individual life insurance business increased $30.0 million, primarily due to growth in our fee based universal and variable universal life insurance business. Fee revenues from our health insurance business decreased $7.9 million, primarily due to a decrease in average fee for service medical members. Net investment income increased $13.3 million, or 2%, to $676.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $662.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase primarily relates to a $518.4, or 5%, increase in average invested assets and cash for the segment. The increase was partially offset by a decrease in the average annualized yield on invested assets and cash, which was 6.2% for the year ended December 31, 2005, compared to 6.4% for the year ended December 31, 2004. This reflects lower yields on fixed maturity securities and commercial mortgages due in part to a lower interest rate environment. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $105.5 million, or 4%, to $2,620.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $2,514.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Health insurance benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $66.0 million primarily due to increases in claim costs per member and average members, even though loss ratios decreased. Likewise, despite lower loss ratios, specialty benefits insurance benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $58.9 million, primarily due to growth in the business. Dividends to policyholders decreased $3.3 million, or 1%, to $288.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $291.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease is primarily related to a decrease in the individual life insurance dividend interest crediting rates resulting from a declining interest rate environment. Operating expenses increased $77.6 million, or 8%, to $1,066.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $988.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Specialty benefits insurance operating expenses increased $45.7 million due to growth in the business. Health insurance operating expenses increased $29.5 million, primarily due to growth in the insured medical and wellness businesses and additional salary and benefit related expenses. Income taxes increased $8.2 million, or 6%, to $138.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $129.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The effective income tax rate for the segment was 33% for the year ended December 31, 2005 and 34% for the year ended December 31, 2004. The effective income tax rates for the years 57 ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, were lower than the corporate income tax rate of 35% primarily due to the interest exclusion from taxable income. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating earnings increased $18.2 million, or 7%, to $274.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $256.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Net realized/unrealized capital losses, as adjusted, decreased $6.6 million, or 74%, to $2.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $8.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease is due to fewer other than temporary impairments of fixed maturity securities including a $7.5 million recovery of previously impaired securities received as the result of a litigation settlement offset in part by more losses related to the mark to market of derivative activities, a software impairment, and losses versus gains on the sale of fixed maturity securities. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of a 2004 other after tax adjustment, net income available to common stockholders increased $25.7 million, or 10%, to $272.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $246.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The other after tax adjustment for the year ended December 31, 2004, had a negative impact on net income of $0.9 million due to the cumulative effect of accounting change, a result of our implementation of SOP 03 1. Corporate and Other Segment Corporate and Other Segment Summary Financial Data The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the Corporate and Other segment for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 (in millions) Operating Earnings Data: Operating Revenues(1): Total operating revenues $ (27.4 ) $ (59.1 ) $ (23.0 ) Expenses: Total expenses (11.4 ) (6.9 ) 47.9 Operating loss before income taxes and preferred stock dividends (16.0 ) (52.2 ) (70.9 ) Income tax benefits (21.7 ) (48.5 ) (50.5 ) Preferred stock dividends 33.0 17.7 Operating loss (27.3 ) (21.4 ) (20.4 ) Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses), as adjusted 34.2 (13.6 ) 26.4 Other after tax adjustments 41.2 64.5 U.S. GAAP Reported: Net income available to common stockholders $ 48.1 $ 29.5 $ 6.0 (1)Excludes net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses). Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 Total operating revenues increased $31.7 million, or 54%, to a negative $27.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from a negative $59.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Net investment income increased $35.3 million reflecting an increase in average annualized investment yields as well as a decrease in investment expenses related to a significant variable interest in a coal based synthetic fuel production facility. The decrease in investment expense from this investment largely corresponds to an increase in income taxes due to fewer estimated synthetic fuel tax credits generated from fuel production. Partially offsetting the increase in total revenues was a decrease of $3.5 million in fee revenue for transitional services provided to CitiMortgage, Inc., in the prior year, related to the sale of Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc., which is mostly offset by a corresponding change in total expense. Total expenses decreased $4.5 million, or 65%, to a negative $11.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from a negative $6.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease in total expenses was primarily due to a $9.8 million decrease in interest related to federal income tax activities as well as a $3.4 million decrease in transitional services provided to CitiMortgage, Inc., in the prior year, related to the sale of Principal Residential Mortgage, which is mostly offset in total revenue. The decrease in total expenses was largely offset by $12.2 million increase in interest related to the issuance of corporate debt. 58 Income tax benefits decreased $26.8 million, or 55%, to $21.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $48.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in the estimated synthetic fuel tax credits in 2006, as well as a decrease in operating loss before income taxes and preferred stock dividends. Preferred stock dividends increased $15.3 million, or 86%, to $33.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $17.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The preferred stock dividends were a result of issuing preferred stock in June 2005. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating loss increased $5.9 million, or 28%, to $27.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $21.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. Net realized/unrealized capital gains, as adjusted, increased $47.8 million to $34.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $13.6 million net realized/unrealized losses for the year ended December 31, 2005. The increase was primarily due to the gain on sale of stock of an equity method investment, fewer losses on sales of invested assets, and the prior year impairment of an equity partnership interest. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of other after tax adjustments, net income available to common stockholders increased $18.6 million, or 63%, to $48.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, from $29.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. For the year ended December 31, 2006, net income included other after tax adjustments totaling $41.2 million related to positive effects of: (1) gains on sales of real estate properties that qualify for discontinued operations treatment ($30.9 million) (2) a favorable court ruling on contested IRS issues for 1991 and later years ($18.8 million) and the negative effect of a contribution to the Principal Financial Group Foundation, Inc. ($8.5 million). Year Ended December 31, 2005 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2004 Total operating revenues decreased $36.1 million to a negative $59.1 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from a negative $23.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Net investment income decreased $21.5 million primarily due to the increase in investment expenses related to the acquisition of a significant variable interest in a coal based synthetic fuel production facility in June 2004. The increase in investment expense from this investment is more than offset by a decrease in income taxes due to synthetic fuel tax credits generated from fuel production. In addition, the decrease in total revenues was partially due to a decrease of $7.7 million in fee revenue for transitional services provided to CitiMortgage, Inc., in the prior year, related to the sale of Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc., which is mostly offset by a corresponding change in total expense. Furthermore, the decrease in total revenues was due to a $5.5 million increase in inter segment eliminations included in this segment, which was offset by a corresponding change in total expenses. Total expenses decreased $54.8 million to a negative $6.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from a positive $47.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease in total expenses was partially due to a $23.0 million decrease in interest related to federal income tax audit activities as well as a $13.5 million decrease in interest related to the reduction of corporate debt. Furthermore, the decrease in total expenses was due to a $7.3 million decrease in transitional services provided to CitiMortgage, Inc., in the prior year, related to the sale of Principal Residential Mortgage, which is mostly offset in total revenue. Further contributing to the overall decrease was a $7.2 million decrease related to a prior year prepayment penalty recognized on the redemption of our surplus notes due 2024. In addition, inter segment eliminations included in this segment increased $5.5 million, resulting in a decrease in total expenses. Income tax benefits decreased $2.0 million, or 4%, to $48.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $50.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. The decrease was primarily due to a decrease in operating loss before income taxes and preferred stock dividends, a change in income tax reserves established for IRS tax matters, as well as a tax benefit associated with the sale of a foreign investment in 2004. Largely offsetting these decreases in income tax benefits are a full year of synthetic fuel tax credits. Preferred stock dividends were $17.7 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, with no corresponding activity for the year ended December 31, 2004. The preferred stock dividends were a result of issuing preferred stock in June 2005. As a result of the foregoing factors, operating loss increased $1.0 million, or 5%, to $21.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $20.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2004. Net realized/unrealized capital losses, as adjusted, increased $40.0 million to $13.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $26.4 million net realized/unrealized gains for the year ended December 31, 2004. The increase in net realized/unrealized capital losses was primarily due to less mark to market gains on certain seed money investments, increased losses on sales of invested assets, and the impairment of an equity partnership interest. As a result of the foregoing factors and the inclusion of other after tax adjustments, net income available to common stockholders increased $23.5 million to $29.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2005, from $6.0 million for the 59 year ended December 31, 2004. For the year ended December 31, 2005, net income included the positive effect of other after tax adjustments totaling $64.5 million related to: (1) a decrease in income tax reserves and associated interest related to IRS tax matters ($42.2 million) and (2) gains on sales of real estate properties that qualify for discontinued operations treatment ($22.3 million). Liquidity and Capital Resources Our legal entity organizational structure has an impact on our ability to meet cash flow needs as an organization. Following is a simplified organizational structure. The Holding Companies: Principal Financial Group, Inc. and Principal Financial Services, Inc. Liquidity describes the ability of a company to generate sufficient cash flows to meet the cash requirements of business operations. Our parent holding company, Principal Financial Group, Inc., is a Delaware business corporation, whose assets primarily consist of the outstanding capital stock of its subsidiaries. As a holding company, Principal Financial Group Inc.s ability to meet cash requirements, including the payments of dividends on common stock and the repurchase of stock, substantially depends upon dividends from subsidiaries, primarily Principal Life. Dividends from Principal Life The payment of stockholder dividends by Principal Life to its parent company is limited by Iowa laws. Under Iowa laws, Principal Life may pay dividends only from the earned surplus arising from its business and must receive the prior approval of the Insurance Commissioner of the State of Iowa ("the Commissioner") to pay a stockholder dividend if such a stockholder dividend would exceed certain statutory limitations. The current statutory limitation is the greater of: 10% of Principal Lifes statutory policyholder surplus as of the previous year end; or the statutory net gain from operations from the previous calendar year. Iowa law gives the Commissioner discretion to disapprove requests for dividends in excess of these limits. Based on this limitation and 2006 statutory results, Principal Life could pay approximately $660.4 million in stockholder dividends in 2007 without exceeding the statutory limitation. Principal Life was able to pay approximately $630.7 million in statutory dividends in 2006 based on its 2005 statutory financial results without being subject to the restrictions on payment of extraordinary stockholder dividends. On February 28, 2006, Principal Life declared a common stock dividend to its parent company of up to $625.0 million. The ordinary stockholder dividends paid by Principal Life to its parent company in 2006 were $426.2 million. Principal Life requested and received permission from the Commissioner to pay an extraordinary dividend in the amount of $750.0 million. The extraordinary stockholder dividends paid by Principal Life to its parent in 2006 were $750.0 million. On November 2, 2005, Principal Life declared a dividend of up to $300.0 million. Total stockholder dividends paid by Principal Life to its parent company in 2005 were $200.0 million. On May 19, 2004, Principal Life declared a dividend of up to $1.2 billion. Total ordinary stockholder dividends paid by Principal Life to its parent company in 2004 were $494.0 million. In March 2004, Principal Life redeemed $200.0 million of its surplus notes at a cost of $207.2 million. Principal Life and the Commissioner have agreed that this $207.2 million will be applied against Principal Lifes 2004 ordinary dividend capacity. Principal Life requested and received permission from the Commissioner to pay an extraordinary dividend in the amount of $700.0 million, of which $630.0 million was paid in 2004. 60  Shelf Registration Registration Statement. Although we generate adequate cash flow to meet the needs of our normal operations, periodically the need may arise to issue debt to fund internal expansion, acquisitions, investment opportunities and retirement of existing debt and equity. In December 2003, we filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which became effective on June 30, 2004. The shelf registration totals $3.0 billion, with the ability to issue debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, warrants, stock purchase contracts and stock purchase units of PFG and trust preferred securities of three subsidiary trusts. If we issue additional securities, we intend to use the proceeds from the sale of the securities for general corporate purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures, investments in subsidiaries, share repurchase, acquisitions and refinancing of debt, including commercial paper and other short term indebtedness. Principal Financial Services, Inc. unconditionally guarantees our obligations with respect to one or more series of debt securities described in the shelf registration statement. Senior Note Issuance. On October 16 and December 5, 2006, we issued $500.0 million and $100.0 million, respectively, of senior notes from our shelf registration, for net proceeds of $597.5 million. The notes will bear interest at a rate of 6.05% per year. Interest on the notes is payable semi annually on April 15 and October 15, beginning on April 15, 2007. The notes will mature on October 15, 2036. A portion of the proceeds was used to fund the acquisition of WM Advisors, Inc., with the remaining proceeds being used for general corporate purposes. Following our senior note issuance, we now have the ability to issue up to $1.85 billion of debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, warrants, stock purchase contracts and stock purchase units of PFG and trust preferred securities of three subsidiary trusts, under the shelf registration. Preferred Stock Issuances. On June 16, 2005, we issued 13.0 million shares of non cumulative perpetual preferred stock under our shelf registration for net proceeds of $542.0 million. Substantially all of the preferred securities proceeds were used to repurchase shares of outstanding common stock. Preferred Stock Dividend Restrictions and Payments. The certificates of designations for the preferred stock restrict the declaration of preferred dividends if we fail to meet specified capital adequacy, net income or stockholders equity levels. As of December 31, 2006, we have no preferred dividend restrictions. On March 30, 2006, June 30, 2006, October 2, 2006, and January 2, 2007, we paid a dividend of $8.3 million, $8.2 million, $8.3 million and $8.2 million, respectively, equal to $1.39 per share on Series A non cumulative perpetual preferred stock and equal to $0.41 per share on Series B non cumulative perpetual preferred stock. Dividends were paid to stockholders of record as of March 15, 2006, June 15, 2006, September 14, 2006, and December 14, 2006, respectively. On September 30, 2005, and December 30, 2005, we paid a dividend of $9.4 million, and $8.3 million, respectively, equal to $1.59 per share and $1.39 per share, respectively, on Series A non cumulative perpetual preferred stock and equal to $0.47 per share and $0.41 per share, respectively, on Series B non cumulative perpetual preferred stock, to stockholders of record as of September 1, 2005, and December 15, 2005, respectively. Common Stock Issued and Treasury Stock Acquired Another source of liquidity is issuance of our common stock. Proceeds from the issuance of our common stock were $66.2 million and $59.9 million in 2006 and 2005, respectively. In 2006, we paid $214.7 million in dividends to common stockholders. We paid a dividend of $0.80 per share on December 15, 2006, to stockholders of record as of November 22, 2006. In 2005, we paid $182.2 million, or $0.65 per share, in dividends to common stockholders. In 2004, we paid $166.5 million, or $0.55 per share, in dividends to common stockholders. Our Board of Directors has authorized various repurchase programs under which we are allowed to purchase shares of our outstanding common stock. Shares repurchased under these programs are accounted for as treasury stock, carried at cost and reflected as a reduction to stockholders equity. The repurchases are made in the open market or through privately negotiated transactions, from time to time, depending on market conditions. On November 28, 2006, our Board of Directors authorized a repurchase program of up to $250.0 million of our outstanding common stock. As of December 31, 2006, no purchases have been made under this program. On May 19, 2006, following our Board of Directors share repurchase authorization, we entered into an accelerated common stock repurchase agreement with a third party investment bank for an aggregate purchase price of $500.0 million. On this date, we paid $500.0 million and received the initial delivery of 7.7 million common shares, while retaining the right to receive additional common shares depending on the volume weighted average share price of our common stock over the programs duration. The program was completed in November 2006. Under this program, we purchased 9.3 million common shares at an average price of $53.59. In November 2005, our Board of Directors authorized a repurchase program of up to $250.0 million of our outstanding common stock. This program was completed in May 2006. Under this program, we acquired 5.1 million shares in the open market at an aggregate cost of $250.0 million in 2006. 61 In June 2005, following our Board of Directors authorization of the repurchase of up to 15.0 million shares of our outstanding common stock, we entered into an accelerated stock repurchase agreement with a third party investment banker for approximately 13.7 million shares of our common stock with an initial payment of $542.3 million. This transaction was subject to a market pricing adjustment provision based on the volume weighted average market price over the execution period, which could be settled in shares or cash. On October 3, 2005, we elected to settle in cash. On November 10, 2005, the transaction was completed for an additional payment of $84.0 million. We do not intend to make further purchases under this program. In March 2005, our Board of Directors authorized a repurchase program of up to $250.0 million of our outstanding common stock. This program began after the completion of the May 2004 repurchase program, which authorized the repurchase of up to $700.0 million of our outstanding common stock. Under the May 2004 and March 2005 repurchase programs, we acquired 8.4 million shares in the open market at an aggregate cost of $325.0 million in 2005. Of that amount, $75.0 million was acquired under the May 2004 repurchase program and $250.0 million was acquired under the March 2005 repurchase program. The share repurchase program announced in March 2005 was completed in May 2005. Our Board of Directors authorized a repurchase program of up to $700.0 million of our outstanding common stock in May 2004. We acquired 21.7 million common shares in the open market at an aggregate cost of $772.0 million during the year ended December 31, 2004. Of that amount, $625.0 million was acquired under the May 2004 repurchase program and $147.0 million was acquired under the May 2003 repurchase program which was completed in 2004. Sources of liquidity also include facilities for short term and long term borrowing as needed, arranged through our intermediate holding company, Principal Financial Services Inc. ("PFSI"), and its subsidiaries. See "Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments" below. Principal Life Historically, the primary cash flow sources for Principal Life have been premiums from life and health insurance products, pension and annuity deposits, asset management fee revenues, administrative services fee revenues, income from investments, proceeds from the sales or maturity of investments, long term debt and short term borrowings. Cash outflows consist primarily of payment of benefits to policyholders and beneficiaries, income and other taxes, current operating expenses, payment of dividends to policyholders, payments in connection with investments acquired, payments made to acquire subsidiaries, payment of dividends to parent, and payments relating to policy and contract surrenders, withdrawals, policy loans, interest expense and repayment of short term borrowings and long term debt. Principal Life maintains investment strategies generally intended to provide adequate funds to pay benefits without forced sales of investments. Products having liabilities with longer lives, such as life insurance and full service payout pension products, are matched with assets having similar estimated lives such as mortgage loans, long term bonds and private placement bonds. Shorter term liabilities are matched with investments such as short and medium term fixed maturities. In addition, highly liquid, high quality short term investments are held to fund anticipated operating expenses, surrenders, withdrawals and development and maintenance expenses associated with new products and technologies. Our privately placed fixed maturity securities, commercial mortgage loans and real estate investments are generally less liquid than our publicly traded fixed maturity securities. These asset classes represented approximately 41% and 40% of the value of our consolidated invested assets as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 respectively. See Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rate Risk" for a discussion of duration matching. Life insurance companies generally produce a positive cash flow from operations, as measured by the amount by which cash inflows are adequate to meet benefit obligations to policyholders and normal operating expenses as they are incurred. The remaining cash flow is generally used to increase the asset base to provide funds to meet the need for future policy benefit payments and for writing and acquiring new business. It is important to match the investment portfolio maturities to the cash flow demands of the type of annuity, investment or insurance product being provided. Principal Life continuously monitors benefits, surrenders and maturities to provide projections of future cash requirements. As part of this monitoring process, Principal Life performs cash flow testing of many of its assets and liabilities under various scenarios to evaluate the adequacy of reserves. In developing its investment strategy, Principal Life establishes a level of cash and securities which, combined with expected net cash inflows from operations, maturities of fixed maturity investments and principal payments on mortgage backed securities and commercial mortgage loans, are believed adequate to meet anticipated short term and long term benefit and expense payment obligations. There can be no assurance that future experience regarding benefits and surrenders will be similar to historic experience since withdrawal and surrender levels are influenced by such factors as the interest rate environment and the claims paying ability and financial strength ratings of Principal Life. Principal Life takes into account asset liability management considerations in the product development and design process. Contract terms of 98% of Principal Lifes universal and variable universal life insurance products as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, include surrender and withdrawal provisions which mitigate the risk of losses due to early withdrawals. These provisions generally do one or more of the following: limit the amount of penalty free withdrawals; limit the circumstances under which withdrawals are permitted; or assess a surrender charge or market value adjustment relating to the underlying assets. The market value adjustment feature in Principal Lifes fixed annuity products adjusts 62 the surrender value of a contract in the event of surrender prior to the end of the contract period to protect Principal Life against losses due to higher interest rates at the time of surrender. Our GICs and funding agreements contain provisions limiting early surrenders, including penalties for early surrenders and minimum notice requirements. The following table presents U.S. GAAP reserves for guaranteed investment contracts and funding agreements by withdrawal provisions as of December 31, 2006 and 2005: December 31, 2006 2005 (in millions) Book Value Out(1) Surrenderable: Book value out without surrender charge $ 3.1 $ 3.7 Book value out with surrender charge 2,322.4 2,189.0 Total surrenderable 2,325.5 2,192.7 Total book value out 2,325.5 2,192.7 Market Value Out(2) Less than 30 days notice 30 to 89 days notice 23.8 90 to 180 days notice 950.1 335.7 More than 180 days notice 3,261.1 3,591.8 No active surrender provision 314.8 252.3 Total market value out 4,526.0 4,203.6 Not puttable or surrenderable 19,698.2 18,037.3 Total GICs and funding agreements $ 26,549.7 $ 24,433.6 (1)Book Value Out: The amount equal to the sum of deposits less withdrawals with interest accrued at the contractual interest rate. (2)Market Value Out: The amount equal to the book value out plus a market value adjustment to adjust for changes in interest rates. International Asset Management and Accumulation Operations Our Brazilian, Hong Kong, Indian, and Mexican operations produced positive cash flow from operations for the year ended December 31, 2006. For the years ended December 31, 2005 and 2004, our Chilean, Indian and Mexican operations produced positive cash flow from operations. These cash flows have been historically maintained at the local country level for strategic expansion purposes and local capital requirements. Our international operations have required infusions of capital primarily to fund acquisitions and to a lesser extent, to meet the cash outflow and capital requirements of certain operations. Our capital funding of these operations is consistent with our long term strategy to establish viable companies that can sustain future growth from internally generated sources. Based on reviews of our current capital needs and strategic opportunities within our foreign operations, we repatriated a portion of the capital from certain countries in 2006, 2005, and 2004. Sources and Uses of Cash of Consolidated Operations Activity, as reported in our consolidated statements of cash flows, provides relevant information regarding our sources and uses of cash. The following discussion of our operating, investing and financing portions of the cash flows excludes cash flows attributable to our discontinued operations, which were as follows: For the year ended December 31, Cash flows attributable to discontinued operations: 2006 2005 2004 (in millions) Net cash provided by (used in) operating activities $ (1.1 ) $ 125.1 $ 627.7 Net cash used in investing activities (0.9 ) (125.0 ) (473.7 ) Net cash provided by financing activities 600.0 63 Net cash provided by operating activities was $2,278.5 million, $2,126.2 million and $2,031.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. The increase in cash provided by operating activities in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily related to the payment in 2005 of an IRS deficiency related to the examination for 1999 2001. Also contributing to the increase in cash provided by operating activities was an increase in proceeds in the net mortgage loans held for sale activity, due to the transition of our CMBS platform from Principal Commercial Funding I to a newly created entity, Principal Commercial Funding II, which is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. The increase in cash provided by operating activities in 2005 compared to 2004 is due to an increase in premiums and fees and other revenues received. This increase is partially offset by increased taxes paid in 2005, largely due to the 2005 payment of an Internal Revenue Service deficiency related to the examination for 1999 2001. Net cash used in investing activities was $3,912.9 million, $1,483.7 million and $3,184.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. The increase in cash used in investing activities in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to a decrease in sales and fewer maturities of available for sales securities, partially offset by a decrease in purchases of available for sale securities. Also contributing to the increase was an increase in mortgage loans acquired and a decrease in mortgage loans sold. The acquisition of WM Advisors in the fourth quarter of 2006 also contributed to the increase in cash used in investing activities. The decrease in cash used in 2005 for investing activities compared to 2004 is primarily due to a decrease in the net acquisitions of available for sale securities and mortgage loans. Offsetting this was the sale of subsidiaries, including the sale of Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. to CitiMortgage, Inc., in 2004, with no corresponding activity in 2005. Net cash provided by financing activities was $1,585.9 million, $546.2 million and $414.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005, and 2004, respectively. The increase in cash provided by financing activities in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to the issuance of $600.0 million of senior notes from our shelf registration in the fourth quarter of 2006 in addition to an increase in net deposits of investment contracts and a decrease in treasury stock acquisitions in 2006 compared to 2005. Offsetting these increases in cash provided were repayments of short term borrowings, as well as the preferred stock issuance in 2005, with no corresponding activity in 2006. The increase in cash provided by financing activities in 2005 compared to 2004 was primarily due to a preferred stock issuance in 2005, increases in short term borrowing as well as a reduction in long term debt repayments in 2005. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in net deposits of investment contracts, an increase in treasury stock acquisitions and the accelerated stock repurchase settlement. Given the historical cash flow of our subsidiaries and the financial results of these subsidiaries, we believe the cash flow from our consolidated operating activities over the next year will provide sufficient liquidity for our operations, as well as satisfy interest payments and any payments related to debt servicing. Impacts of Income Taxes The Internal Revenue Service (the "Service") has completed examinations of the U.S. consolidated federal income tax returns for 2003 and prior years. The Services completion of the examinations for the years 1999 2001 resulted in notices of deficiency dated December 29, 2004, and March 1, 2005. We paid the deficiencies (approximately $444.0 million for 1999 and 2000, and $1.3 million for 2001, including interest) in the first quarter of 2005 and have filed, or will file, claims for refund relating to the disputed adjustments. The examination for the years 2002 and 2003 resulted in a refund of approximately $176.7 million (including interest) of which $161.5 million related to deficiencies previously paid as a result of the 1999 2001 examination. We believe that we have adequate defenses against, or sufficient provisions for, the contested issues, but final resolution of the contested issues could take several years while legal remedies are pursued. Consequently, we do not expect the ultimate resolution of issues in tax years 1999 2003 to have a material impact on our net income. Similarly, we believe there are adequate defenses against, or sufficient provisions for, any challenges that might arise in tax years subsequent to 2003. On October 22, 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the "Act") was signed into law. The Act included a repatriation provision granting U.S. corporations a special deduction of 85% of certain qualifying dividends from their foreign subsidiaries. A company could elect to apply this provision to qualifying earnings that were repatriated in its 2005 tax year. Pursuant to the Act, we implemented two domestic reinvestment plans in 2005. In accordance with the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, we elected an 85% dividend received deduction on eligible cash dividends totaling $28.8 million. Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges The ratio of earnings to fixed charges is a measure of our ability to cover fixed costs with current period earnings. A high ratio indicates that earnings are sufficiently covering committed expenses. The following table sets forth, for the years indicated, our ratios of: earnings to fixed charges before interest credited on investment products; and 64 earnings to fixed charges. For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 2004 2003 2002 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges before interest credited on investment products 10.2 11.1 9.5 7.5 4.5 Ratio of earnings to fixed charges 2.2 2.1 2.0 1.9 1.4 We calculate the ratio of "earnings to fixed charges before interest credited on investment products" by dividing the sum of income from continuing operations before income taxes (BT), interest expense (I), interest factor of rental expense (IF) less undistributed income from equity investees (E) by the sum of interest expense (I), interest factor of rental expense (IF), preferred stock dividends by the registrant (PD) and dividends on majority owned subsidiary redeemable preferred securities (non intercompany) (D). The formula for this ratio is: (BT+I+IF E)/(I+IF+PD+D). We calculate the ratio of "earnings to fixed charges" by dividing the sum of income from continuing operations before income taxes (BT), interest expense (I), interest factor of rental expense (IF) less undistributed income from equity investees (E) and the addition of interest credited on investment products (IC) by interest expense (I), interest factor of rental expense (IF), preferred stock dividends by the registrant (PD), dividends on majority owned subsidiary redeemable preferred securities (non intercompany) (D) and interest credited on investment products (IC). The formula for this ratio is: (BT+I+IF E+IC)/(I+IF+PD+D+IC). "Interest credited on investment products" includes interest paid on guaranteed investment contracts, funding agreements and other investment only pension products. Similar to debt, these products have a total fixed return and a fixed maturity date. Contractual Obligations and Commercial Commitments The following table presents payments due by period for long term contractual obligations as of December 31, 2006: Payments due in year ending Contractual Obligations(1) Total Payments 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 and thereafter (in millions) Contractholder funds(2) $ 57,615.5 $ 8,653.1 $ 12,054.9 $ 8,661.3 $ 28,246.2 Future policy benefits and claims(3) 38,503.6 1,945.2 3,231.3 3,126.5 30,200.6 Long term debt(4) 1,553.8 143.5 94.8 578.7 736.8 Certificates of deposit(5) 870.9 430.6 376.2 60.0 4.1 Other long term liabilities(6) 674.2 457.1 217.1 Capital leases 17.9 0.9 2.1 2.3 12.6 Long term debt interest 1,624.9 104.2 184.8 164.9 1,171.0 Operating leases(7) 215.5 56.4 85.1 43.8 30.2 Purchase obligations(8) 739.3 707.2 23.1 9.0 Total contractual obligations $ 101,815.6 $ 12,498.2 $ 16,052.3 $ 12,646.5 $ 60,618.6 (1)Excludes short term liabilities, other policyholder funds, taxes and short term debt as these are not long term and or not contractual in nature. Also excludes obligations under our pension and other postretirement benefit plans as benefit payments will be made under a funded plan and will not require company contributions or payments within a five year period. In addition, separate account liabilities are excluded. Separate account liabilities represent the fair market value of funds that are separately administered by the Company. Generally, the separate account contract owner, rather than the Company, bears the investment risk of these funds. The separate account liabilities are legally segregated and are not subject to claims that arise out of any other business of the Company. Net deposits, net investment income and realized and unrealized capital gains and losses on the separate accounts are not reflected in the consolidated statement of operations. The separate account obligations will be fully funded by cash flows from the separate account assets. (2)Includes GICs, funding agreements (described below), individual fixed annuities, universal life insurance, and other investment type contracts. Our guaranteed investment contracts and funding agreements contain provisions limiting early surrenders, which typically include penalties for early surrenders, minimum notice requirements or, in the case of funding agreements with survivor options, minimum pre death holding periods and specific maximum amounts. Funding agreements include those issued directly to nonqualified institutional investors, as well as to three separate programs where the funding agreements have been issued directly or indirectly to unconsolidated special 65 purpose entities. Claims for principal and interest under funding agreements are afforded equal priority to claims of life insurance and annuity policyholders under insolvency provisions of Iowa Insurance Laws. We are authorized to issue up to $4.0 billion of funding agreements under a program established in 1998 to support the prospective issuance of medium term notes by an unaffiliated entity in non U.S. markets. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, $3,770.4 million and $3,203.6 million, respectively, of liabilities are being held with respect to the issuance outstanding under this program. We do not anticipate any new issuance activity under this program as we are authorized to issue up to Euro 4.0 billion (approximately USD$5.3 billion) of funding agreements under a program established in 2006 to support the prospective issuance of medium term notes by an unaffiliated entity in non U.S. markets. The unaffiliated entity is an unconsolidated special purpose vehicle. As of December 31, 2006, $474.1 million of liabilities are outstanding with respect to the issuance outstanding under this new program. In addition, we are authorized to issue up to $7.0 billion of funding agreements under a program established in 2001 to support the prospective issuance of medium term notes by an unaffiliated entity in both domestic and international markets. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, $3,747.9 million and $4,744.5 million, respectively, of liabilities were being held with respect to the issuance outstanding under this program. We do not anticipate any new issuance activity under this program, given our December 2005 termination of the dealership agreement for this program and the availability of the SEC registered program described in the following paragraph. We are authorized to issue up to $4.0 billion of funding agreements under a program established in March 2004 to support the prospective issuance of medium term notes by unaffiliated entities in both domestic and international markets. In recognition of the use of nearly all $4.0 billion of initial issuance authorization, the program was amended in February 2006 to authorize issuance of up to an additional $5.0 billion. Under this program, both the notes and the supporting funding agreements are registered with the SEC. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, $5,831.4 million and $3,667.9 million, respectively, of liabilities are being held with respect to the issuance outstanding under this program. In contrast with direct funding agreements, GIC issuances and the other two funding agreement backed medium term note programs described above, Principal Lifes payment obligations on each funding agreement issued under this SEC registered program are guaranteed by Principal Financial Group, Inc. Amounts included in the contractholder funds line item reflect estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders. The sum of the cash outflows shown for all years in the table exceeds the corresponding liability amount included in our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2006. The liability amount in our consolidated financial statements reflects estimated cash payments to policyholders, assumptions with regard to the timing of cash payments and discounting for interest. (3)Amounts included in the future policy benefits and claims line item reflect estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders. The sum of the cash outflows shown for all years in the table exceeds the corresponding liability amount included in our consolidated financial statements as of December 31,2006. The liability amount in our consolidated financial statements reflects estimated cash payments to policyholders, reductions for expected future premiums, assumptions with regard to the timing of cash payments and discounting for interest. (4)The following are included in long term debt: On October 16 and December 5, 2006, we issued $500.0 million and $100.0 million, respectively, of senior notes from our shelf registration, which was filed with the SEC in December 2003. The notes will bear interest at a rate of 6.05% per year. Interest on the notes is payable semi annually on April 15 and October 15, beginning on April 15, 2007. The notes will mature on October 15, 2036. A portion of the proceeds was used to fund the acquisition of WM Advisors, Inc., with the remaining proceeds being used for general corporate purposes. On November 3, 2005, Principal International de Chile S.A., a wholly owned indirect subsidiary, entered into long term borrowing agreements with two Chilean banks in the amount of US $93.9 million. This debt is denominated in Unidades de Formento ("UF"), a Chilean inflation indexed, peso denominated monetary unit. Of this amount, US $49.0 million of UF +4.59% notes and US $44.9 million of UF +4.93% notes mature on November 3, 2011. Interest on the notes is payable semi annually on May 3 and November 3 each year. The debt outstanding and interest expense will vary due to fluctuations in the Chilean peso to US dollar exchange rates and Chilean inflation. On August 25, 1999, Principal Financial Group (Australia) Holdings Pty. Limited, a wholly owned indirect subsidiary, issued $665.0 million of unsecured redeemable long term debt. Of this amount, $200.0 million of 7.95% notes matured on August 15, 2004, with the remaining $465.0 million in 8.2% notes due August 15, 2009. On December 28, 2001, all of the long term debt obligations of Principal Financial Group (Australia) Holdings Pty. Limited were assumed by its parent, Principal Financial Services, Inc. On March 10, 1994, Principal Life issued $100.0 million of surplus notes due March 1, 2044, at an 8% annual interest rate. None of our affiliates hold any portion of the notes. Each payment of interest and principal on the notes, however, may be made only with the prior approval of the Commissioner and only to the extent that Principal Life has sufficient surplus earnings to make such payments. 66  Subject to Commissioner approval, the notes due March 1, 2044, may be redeemed at Principal Lifes election on or after March 1, 2014, in whole or in part at a redemption price of approximately 102.3% of par. The approximate 2.3% premium is scheduled to gradually diminish over the following ten years. These notes may be redeemed on or after March 1, 2024, at a redemption price of 100% of the principal amount plus interest accrued to the date of redemption. Long term debt also includes $298.0 million of mortgages and other notes payable related to real estate developments. We, including certain subsidiaries, had $135.0 million in credit facilities as of December 31, 2006, with various financial institutions, in addition to obtaining loans with various lenders to finance these developments. Outstanding principal balances as of December 31, 2006, range from $0.3 million to $96.2 million per development with interest rates generally ranging from 5.5% to 8.6%. Outstanding principal balances as of December 31, 2005, range from $0.3 million to $97.5 million per development with interest rates generally ranging from 5.5% to 8.6%. Outstanding debt is secured by the underlying real estate properties, which were reported as real estate on our consolidated statements of financial position with a carrying value of $246.2 million and $284.1 million as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. In addition to the mortgages and notes payable noted above, we assumed a long term debt obligation with the purchase of WM Advisors, Inc. As part of the purchase, we will be bound by a class B share financing agreement previously entered into by WM Advisors, Inc. and a third party, which was assigned a value of $86.9 million at purchase. Load mutual fund shares sold without a front end load are referred to as "B shares". In exchange for paying the selling commission, the company receives fees in the future to recover the up front commission cost incurred. Prior to our purchase, WM Advisors, Inc. had entered into a purchase and sale agreement whereby the third party would purchase the rights to future cash flow streams in exchange for funding the sales commissions. The fair value of these relinquished fees is reported as a long term debt liability. There will be no additional sales under this agreement following the effective date of the purchase. Therefore, this liability will be extinguished within eight years, which equates to the contractual term in which the fund can recover fees to cover the upfront commission costs. (5)Amounts included in the certificates of deposit line item reflect estimated cash payments to be made, including expected interest payments. Certificates of deposits are reported as other liabilities on our consolidated statement of financial position. (6)Other long term liabilities include other liabilities reflected in the consolidated statement of financial position that are contractual, non cancelable and long term in nature. This line item excludes accruals and short term items in the amount of $3,209.4 million. (7)As a lessee, we lease office space, data processing equipment and office furniture and equipment under various operating leases. (8)Purchase obligations include material contracts where we have a non cancelable commitment to purchase goods and services in addition to commitments to originate loans and purchase investments. Contractual Commitments In connection with our banking business, we make additional commitments to extend credit, which are agreements to lend to a customer as long as there is no violation of any conditions established in the contract. Commitments generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses and may require payment of a fee. A majority of these commitments are lines of credit and are expected to expire without being drawn upon. Therefore, the total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future cash funding requirements. We evaluate each customers creditworthiness on a case by case basis. The total commitments to fund loans were $135.7 million as of December 31, 2006. Short Term Debt The components of short term debt as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 are as follows: December 31, 2006 2005 (in millions) Commercial paper $ $ 349.9 Other recourse short term debt 23.1 55.1 Non recourse short term debt 61.0 71.4 Total short term debt $ 84.1 $ 476.4 As of December 31, 2006, we had credit facilities with various financial institutions in an aggregate amount of $887.7 million. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, we had $84.1 million and $476.4 million of outstanding borrowings related to our credit facilities, with $74.5 million and $110.6 million of assets pledged as support, respectively. Assets 67 pledged consisted primarily of commercial mortgages and securities. Our credit facilities also include a $600.0 million back stop facility to provide 100% support for our commercial paper program, of which there were no outstanding balances as of December 31, 2006. The weighted average interest rates on short term borrowings as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, were 5.6% and 4.5% respectively. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Variable Interest Entities. We have relationships with various types of special purpose entities and other entities where we have a variable interest as described in Item 8, "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 5 Variable Interest Entities." We do not have a direct or contingent obligation related to our unconsolidated variable interest entities other than described below. Synthetic Fuel Production Facility. In June 2004, we acquired a significant variable interest in a coal based synthetic fuel production facility where we are not the primary beneficiary. Our minority ownership interest was acquired in exchange for consideration of $37.0 million, which is primarily comprised of a non recourse note payable for $36.0 million, as well as a commitment to fund our pro rata share of the operations. We have also agreed to make additional payments to the seller based on our pro rata allocation of the tax credits generated by the facility. The synthetic fuel produced at the facility through 2007 qualifies for tax credits pursuant to Section 29 of the Internal Revenue Code (currently credits are not available for fuel produced after 2007). Our obligation to support the entitys future operations is, therefore, limited to the tax benefit we expect to receive. Retained Interests in Securitized Assets. We, along with other contributors, sell commercial mortgage loans in securitization transactions to trusts. As these trusts are classified as a qualifying special purpose entity, they are not subject to the VIE consolidation rules. We may retain interests in the securitization transaction. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the fair values of retained interests related to the securitizations of commercial mortgage loans were $345.3 million and $321.0 million, respectively. The investors and the securitization entities have no recourse to our assets for failure of debtors to pay when due. The value of our retained interests is subject primarily to credit risk. Guarantees and Indemnifications. In the normal course of business, we have provided guarantees to third parties primarily related to a former subsidiary, joint ventures and industrial revenue bonds. These agreements generally expire through 2019. The maximum exposure under these agreements as of December 31, 2006, was approximately $180.0 million; however, we believe the likelihood is remote that material payments will be required and therefore have not accrued for a liability on our consolidated statements of financial position. Should we be required to perform under these guarantees, we generally could recover a portion of the loss from third parties through recourse provisions included in agreements with such parties, the sale of assets held as collateral that can be liquidated in the event that performance is required under the guarantees or other recourse generally available to us. Therefore, such guarantees would not result in a material adverse effect on our business or financial position. It is possible that such outcomes could materially affect net income in a particular quarter or annual period. The fair value of such guarantees is not material. We are also subject to various other indemnification obligations issued in conjunction with certain transactions, primarily the sale of Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc. and other divestitures, acquisitions and financing transactions whose terms range in duration and often are not explicitly defined. Certain portions of these indemnifications may be capped, while other portions are not subject to such limitations; therefore, the overall maximum amount of the obligation under the indemnifications cannot be reasonably estimated. While we are unable to estimate with certainty the ultimate legal and financial liability with respect to these indemnifications, we believe the likelihood is remote that material payments would be required under such indemnifications and therefore such indemnifications would not result in a material adverse effect on our business or financial position. It is possible that such outcomes could materially affect net income in a particular quarter or annual period. The fair value of such indemnifications was determined to be insignificant. Investments We had total consolidated assets as of December 31, 2006, of $143.7 billion, of which $60.3 billion were invested assets. The rest of our total consolidated assets are comprised primarily of separate account assets for which we do not bear investment risk. Because we generally do not bear any investment risk on assets held in separate accounts, the discussion and financial information below does not include such assets. Of our invested assets, $57.0 billion were held by our U.S. operations and the remaining $3.3 billion were held by our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment. U.S. Investment Operations Our U.S. invested assets are managed by Principal Global Investors, a subsidiary of Principal Life. Our primary investment objective is to maximize after tax returns consistent with acceptable risk parameters. We seek to protect policyholders benefits by optimizing the risk/return relationship on an ongoing basis, through asset/liability matching, 68 reducing the credit risk, avoiding high levels of investments that may be redeemed by the issuer, maintaining sufficiently liquid investments and avoiding undue asset concentrations through diversification. We are exposed to three primary sources of investment risk: credit risk, relating to the uncertainty associated with the continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments of principal and interest; interest rate risk, relating to the market price and or cash flow variability associated with changes in market yield curves; and equity risk, relating to adverse fluctuations in a particular common stock. Our ability to manage credit risk is essential to our business and our profitability. We devote considerable resources to the credit analysis of each new investment. We manage credit risk through industry, issuer and asset class diversification. Our Investment Committee, appointed by our Board of Directors, is responsible for establishing all investment policies and approving or authorizing all investments, except the Executive Committee of the Board must approve any investment transaction exceeding $500.0 million. As of December 31, 2006, there are ten members on the Investment Committee, two of whom are members of our Board of Directors. The remaining members are senior management members representing various areas of our company. We also seek to reduce call or prepayment risk arising from changes in interest rates in individual investments. We limit our exposure to investments that are prepayable without penalty prior to maturity at the option of the issuer, and we require additional yield on these investments to compensate for the risk that the issuer will exercise such option. We assess option risk in all investments we make and, when we take that risk, we price for it accordingly. Our Fixed Income Securities Committee, consisting of fixed income securities senior management members, approves the credit rating for the fixed maturity securities we purchase. Teams of security analysts organized by industry focus either on the public or private markets and analyze and monitor these investments. In addition, we have teams who specialize in residential mortgage backed securities, commercial mortgage backed securities, asset backed securities, and public below investment grade securities. We establish a credit reviewed list of approved public issuers to provide an efficient way for our portfolio managers to purchase liquid bonds for which credit review has already been completed. Issuers remain on the list for one year unless removed by our analysts. Our analysts monitor issuers on the list on a continuous basis with a formal review documented annually or more frequently if material events affect the issuer. The analysis includes both fundamental and technical factors. The fundamental analysis encompasses both quantitative and qualitative analysis of the issuer. The qualitative analysis includes an assessment of both accounting and management aggressiveness. In addition, technical indicators such as stock price volatility and credit default swap levels are monitored. Our Fixed Income Securities Committee also reviews private transactions on a continuous basis to assess the quality ratings of our privately placed investments. We regularly review our investments to determine whether we should re rate them, employing the following criteria: material declines in the issuers revenues or margins; significant management or organizational changes; significant uncertainty regarding the issuers industry; debt service coverage or cash flow ratios that fall below industry specific thresholds; violation of financial covenants; and other business factors that relate to the issuer. A dedicated risk management team is responsible for centralized monitoring of the commercial mortgage portfolio. We apply a variety of strategies to minimize credit risk in our commercial mortgage loan portfolio. When considering the origination of new commercial mortgage loans, we review the cash flow fundamentals of the property, make a physical assessment of the underlying security, conduct a comprehensive market analysis and compare against industry lending practices. We use a proprietary risk rating model to evaluate all new and a majority of existing loans within the portfolio. The proprietary risk model is designed to stress projected cash flows under simulated economic and market downturns. Our lending guidelines are designed to encourage 75% or less loan to value ratios and a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.2 times. We analyze investments outside of these guidelines based on cash flow quality, tenancy and other factors. The weighted average loan to value ratio at origination for brick and mortar commercial mortgages in our portfolio was 67% and the debt service coverage ratio at loan inception was 1.7 times as of December 31, 2006. We have limited exposure to equity risk in our common stock portfolio. Equity securities accounted for only 1% of our U.S. invested assets as of December 31, 2006. Our investment decisions and objectives are a function of the underlying risks and product profiles of each primary business operation. In addition, we diversify our product portfolio offerings to include products that contain features that 69 will protect us against fluctuations in interest rates. Those features include adjustable crediting rates, policy surrender charges and market value adjustments on liquidations. For further information on our management of interest rate risk, see Item 7A, "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk". Overall Composition of U.S. Invested Assets U.S. invested assets as of December 31, 2006, were predominantly of high quality and broadly diversified across asset class, individual credit, industry and geographic location. Asset allocation is determined based on cash flow and the risk/return requirements of our products. As shown in the following table, the major categories of U.S. invested assets are fixed maturity securities and commercial mortgages. The remainder is invested in real estate, residential mortgage loans, equity securities and other assets. In addition, policy loans are included in our invested assets. The following discussion analyzes the composition of U.S. invested assets, but excludes invested assets of the participating separate accounts.  U.S. Invested Assets December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 Carrying Amount % of Total Carrying Amount % of Total ($ in millions) Fixed maturity securities: Public $ 28,772.4 51 % $ 27,826.3 51 % Private 13,651.4 24 12,289.4 23 Equity securities 795.7 1 764.0 2 Mortgage loans: Commercial 10,090.3 18 9,890.7 18 Residential 1,051.6 2 1,088.5 2 Real estate held for sale 118.2 133.8 Real estate held for investment 736.6 1 754.6 1 Policy loans 850.7 1 827.7 2 Other investments 972.6 2 755.3 1 Total invested assets 57,039.5 100 % 54,330.3 100 % Cash and cash equivalents 1,535.8 1,583.1 Total invested assets and cash $ 58,575.3 $ 55,913.4 U.S. Investment Results The following tables present the yield and investment income, excluding net realized/unrealized gains and losses for our U.S. invested assets. The annualized yield on U.S. invested assets and on cash and cash equivalents was 5.9% for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 5.7% for the year ended December 31, 2005. We calculate annualized yields using a simple average of asset classes at the beginning and end of the reporting period. 70  U.S. Invested Assets Investment Income Yields by Asset Type For the year ended December 31, 2006 2005 Yield Amount Yield Amount ($ in millions) Fixed maturity securities 6.0 % $ 2,478.3 5.8 % $ 2,302.5 Equity securities 7.1 55.1 6.5 48.5 Mortgage loans commercial 6.5 653.3 6.7 671.7 Mortgage loans residential 5.1 54.9 4.7 51.9 Real estate 7.4 64.7 7.0 64.0 Policy loans 6.1 50.9 6.1 50.3 Cash and cash equivalents 4.1 64.3 3.3 32.1 Other investments 8.9 76.4 2.4 25.0 Total before investment expenses 6.1 3,497.9 5.9 3,246.0 Investment expenses 0.2 132.2 0.2 133.6 Net investment income 5.9 % $ 3,365.7 5.7 % $ 3,112.4 Fixed Maturity Securities Fixed maturity securities consist of short term investments, publicly traded debt securities, privately placed debt securities and redeemable preferred stock, and represented 75% and 74% of total U.S. invested assets as of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. The fixed maturity securities portfolio was comprised, based on carrying amount, of 68% in publicly traded fixed maturity securities and 32% in privately placed fixed maturity securities as of December 31, 2006 and 69% in publicly traded fixed maturity securities and 31% in privately placed fixed maturity securities as of December 31, 2005. Included in the privately placed category as of December 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005, were $7.6 billion and $6.7 billion, respectively, of securities eligible for resale to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933. Fixed maturity securities were diversified by category of issuer as of December 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005, as shown in the following table:  U.S. Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities by Type of Issuer December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 Carrying Amount % of Total Carrying Amount % of Total ($ in millions) U.S. Government and agencies $ 551.6 1 % $ 555.5 1 % States and political subdivisions 1,663.5 4 1,283.4 3 Non U.S. governments 420.7 1 463.0 1 Corporate public 19,791.1 47 19,590.8 49 Corporate private 10,596.5 25 9,901.5 25 Residential pass through securities 1,557.6 4 1,526.0 4 Commercial mortgage backed securities 4,499.6 11 4,118.6 10 Residential collateralized mortgage obligations 940.4 2 752.5 2 Asset backed securities 2,402.8 5 1,924.4 5 Total fixed maturities $ 42,423.8 100 % $ 40,115.7 100 % We held $9,400.4 million of mortgage backed and asset backed securities as of December 31, 2006, and $8,321.5 million as of December 31, 2005. We believe that it is desirable to hold residential mortgage backed pass through securities due to their credit quality and liquidity as well as portfolio diversification characteristics. Our portfolio is comprised of GNMA, FNMA and FHLMC pass through securities. In addition, our residential collateralized mortgage obligation portfolio offers structural features that allow cash flows to be matched to our liabilities. Commercial mortgage backed securities provide high levels of credit protection, diversification, reduced event risk and enhanced liquidity. Commercial mortgage backed securities are predominantly comprised of rated large pool securitizations that are individually and collectively diverse by property type, borrower and geographic dispersion. 71 We purchase asset backed securities ("ABS") to diversify the overall credit risks of the fixed maturity securities portfolio and to provide attractive returns. The principal risks in holding asset backed securities are structural and credit risks. Structural risks include the securitys priority in the issuers capital structure, the adequacy of and ability to realize proceeds from the collateral and the potential for prepayments. Credit risks involve issuer/servicer risk where collateral values can become impaired in the event of servicer credit deterioration. Our ABS portfolio is diversified both by type of asset and by issuer. We actively monitor holdings of asset backed securities to ensure that the risk profile of each security improves or remains consistent. Prepayments in the ABS portfolio are, in general, insensitive to changes in interest rates or are insulated to such changes by call protection features. In the event that we are subject to prepayment risk, we monitor the factors that impact the level of prepayment and prepayment speed for those asset backed securities. In addition, we diversify the risks of asset backed securities by holding a diverse class of securities, which limits our exposure to any one security. The international exposure in our U.S. fixed maturity securities totaled $8,691.4 million, or 20% of total fixed maturity securities, as of December 31, 2006, comprised of corporate and foreign government fixed maturity securities. Of the $8,691.4 million as of December 31, 2006, investments totaled $2,383.1 million in the United Kingdom, $2,232.2 million in the continental European Union, $1,007.4 million in Asia, $827.8 million in Australia, $615.3 million in South America, $401.0 million in Mexico and $59.0 million in Japan. The remaining $1,165.6 million is invested in 17 other countries. All international fixed maturity securities held by our U.S. operations are either denominated in U.S. dollars or have been swapped into U.S. dollar equivalents. Our international investments are analyzed internally by country and industry credit investment professionals. We control concentrations using issuer and country level exposure benchmarks, which are based on the credit quality of the issuer and the country. Our investment policy limits total international fixed maturity securities investments to 18% of total statutory general account assets with a 4% limit in emerging markets. Exposure to Canada is not included in our international exposure. As of December 31, 2006, our investments in Canada totaled $1,451.6 million. The following tables present the amortized cost of our top ten exposures including approved counterparty exposure limits as of December 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005. December 31, 2006 Amortized Cost (in millions) HSBC Holdings PLC(1) $ 387.1 American International Group Inc.(2) 329.5 Bank of America Corp.(2) 328.3 MBIA Inc.(3) 311.5 AT&T Inc. 272.9 JP Morgan Chase & Co.(2) 271.7 Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC(2) 255.6 Deutsche Bank AG(2) 255.0 General Electric Co 239.2 ABN AMRO Holding NV(2) 229.6 Total top ten exposures $ 2,880.4 (1)Includes a $238.0 million investment classified as an equity security for U.S. GAAP. The investment issuer engages in managing investment grade third party bond investments and HSBC paper. All non HSBC paper has the ultimate benefit of price support protection provided by HSBC Bank, PLC. Since Principal Life Insurance Company has the senior priority in the issuer, we believe many third party bonds could be liquidated to satisfy our claim. While we calculate our exposure on a gross basis, the value we attribute to the underlying collateral is $125.0 million. (2)Includes approved counterparty limit. The actual and the stressed potential exposures are less than the approved limit. (3)MBIA Inc. exposure is predominately comprised of the guarantee of underlying securities that are rated "A " equivalent or better by the rating agencies on a stand alone basis. The MBIA wrap guarantees performance in the event of default of the underlying securities bringing the combined rating to AAA. 72  December 31, 2005 Amortized Cost (in millions) HSBC Holdings PLC(1) $ 381.6 Bank of America Corp.(2) 332.5 American International Group Inc.(2) 330.7 JP Morgan Chase & Co.(2) 316.3 Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC(2) 315.6 MBIA Inc.(3) 311.6 General Electric Co 247.5 Citigroup Inc.(2) 235.0 Banco Santander Central Hispano SA 227.4 AT&T Inc. 219.9 Total top ten exposures $ 2,918.1 (1)Includes a $238.2 million investment classified as an equity security for U.S. GAAP. The investment issuer engages in managing investment grade third party bond investments and HSBC paper. All non HSBC paper has the ultimate benefit of price support protection provided by HSBC Bank, PLC. Since Principal Life Insurance Company has senior priority in the issuer, we believe many third party bonds could be liquidated to satisfy our claim. While we calculate our exposure on a gross basis, the value we attribute to the underlying collateral is $125.0 million. (2)Includes approved counterparty limit. The actual and the stressed potential exposures are less than the approved limit. (3)MBIA Inc. exposure is predominately comprised of the guarantee of underlying securities which are rated "A " equivalent or better by the rating agencies on a stand alone basis. The MBIA wrap guarantees performance in the event of a default of the underlying securities bringing the combined rating to AAA. Our top ten exposures were rated an "A" equivalent or better by the rating agencies as of December 31, 2006 and 2005. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, no individual non government issuer represented more than 1% of U.S. invested assets. Valuation techniques for the fixed maturity securities portfolio vary by security type and the availability of market data. Pricing models and their underlying assumptions impact the amount and timing of unrealized gains and losses recognized, and the use of different pricing models or assumptions could produce different financial results. Interactive Data Corporation ("IDC") or direct broker quotes are our sources for external prices for our public bonds and those private placement securities that are actively traded in the secondary market. In cases where quoted market prices are not available, a matrix pricing valuation approach is used. Securities are grouped into pricing categories that vary by asset class, sector, rating, and average life. Each pricing category is assigned a risk spread based on studies of observable public market data or market clearing data from the investment professionals assigned to specific security classes. The expected cash flows of the security are then discounted back at the current Treasury curve plus the appropriate risk spread. Although the matrix valuation approach provides a fair valuation of each pricing category, the valuation of an individual security within each pricing category may actually be impacted by company specific factors. Certain market events that could impact the valuation of securities include issuer credit ratings, business climate, management changes, litigation, and government actions among others. The resulting prices are then reviewed by pricing analysts. All loans placed on the "watch list" are valued individually by the investment analysts or the analysts that focus on troubled securities ("Workout Group"). Although we believe our estimates reasonably reflect the fair value of those securities, the key assumptions about risk premiums, performance of underlying collateral (if any) and other factors involve significant assumptions and may not reflect those of an active market. To the extent that bonds have longer maturity dates, managements estimate of fair value may involve greater subjectivity since they involve judgment about events well into the future. Every month, there is a comprehensive review of all impaired securities and problem loans by a group consisting of the Chief Investment Officer, the Portfolio Managers, and the Workout Group. The valuation of impaired bonds for which there is no quoted price is typically based on the present value of the future cash flows expected to be received. If the company is likely to continue operations, the estimate of future cash flows is typically based on the expected operating cash flows of the company that are available to make payments of the bonds. If the company is likely to liquidate, the estimate of future cash flows is based on an estimate of the liquidation value of its net assets. The Securities Valuation Office ("SVO") of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") evaluates most of the fixed maturity securities that we and other U.S. insurance companies hold. The SVO evaluates the bond investments of insurers for regulatory reporting purposes and assigns securities to one of six investment categories. The NAIC designations closely mirror the nationally recognized securities rating organizations credit ratings for 73 marketable bonds. NAIC designations 1 and 2 include bonds considered investment grade by such rating organizations. Bonds are considered investment grade when rated "Baa3" or higher by Moodys, or "BBB " or higher by Standard & Poors. NAIC designations 3 through 6 are referred to as below investment grade. Bonds are considered below investment grade when rated "Ba1" or lower by Moodys, or "BB+" or lower by Standard & Poors. As of December 31, 2006, the percentage, based on estimated fair value, of total publicly traded and privately placed fixed maturity securities that were investment grade with an NAIC designation 1 or 2 was 95%. We also monitor the credit drift of our corporate fixed maturity securities portfolio. Credit drift is defined as the ratio of the percentage of rating downgrades, including defaults, divided by the percentage of rating upgrades. We measure credit drift once each fiscal year, assessing the changes in our internally developed credit ratings that have occurred during the year. Standard & Poors annual credit ratings drift ratio measures the credit rating change, within a specific year, of companies that have been assigned ratings by Standard & Poors. The annual internal credit drift ratio on corporate fixed maturity securities we held in our general account was a more favorable ratio at 0.55 times compared to the Standard & Poors drift ratio of 0.74 times, as of December 31, 2006. The following table presents our total fixed maturity securities by NAIC designation and the equivalent ratings of the nationally recognized securities rating organizations as of December 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005, as well as the percentage, based on estimated fair value, that each designation comprises:  U.S. Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities by Credit Quality(1) December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 NAIC Rating Rating Agency Equivalent Amortized Cost Carrying Amount % of Total Carrying Amount Amortized Cost Carrying Amount % of Total Carrying Amount ($ in millions) 1 Aaa/Aa/A $ 23,716.0 $ 24,231.9 57 % $ 21,593.3 $ 22,361.9 56 % 2 Baa 15,769.9 16,205.5 38 14,978.4 15,590.7 39 3 Ba 1,586.8 1,657.1 4 1,701.7 1,801.6 4 4 B 290.5 302.6 1 258.5 271.2 1 5 Caa and lower 19.1 19.5 14.3 14.4 6 In or near default 5.5 7.2 76.2 75.9 Total fixed maturities $ 41,387.8 $ 42,423.8 100 % $ 38,622.4 $ 40,115.7 100 % (1)Includes 43 securities with an amortized cost of $505.8 million, gross gains of $9.6 million, gross losses of $2.2 million and a carrying amount of $513.2 million as of December 31, 2006, that are still pending a review and assignment of a rating by the SVO. Due to the timing of when fixed maturity securities are purchased, legal documents are filed, and the review by the SVO, there will always be securities in our portfolio that are unrated over a reporting period. In these instances, an equivalent rating is assigned based on our fixed income analysts assessment. We believe that our long term fixed maturity securities portfolio is well diversified among industry types and between publicly traded and privately placed securities. Each year, we direct the majority of our net cash inflows into investment grade fixed maturity securities. Our current policy is to limit the percentage of cash flow invested in below investment grade assets to 7% of cash flow. As of December 31, 2006, we had invested 3.3% of new cash flow for the year in below investment grade assets. While the general account investment returns have improved due to the below investment grade asset class, we manage its growth strategically by limiting it to 10% of the total fixed maturity securities portfolios. We invest in privately placed fixed maturity securities to enhance the overall value of the portfolio, increase diversification and obtain higher yields than are possible with comparable quality public market securities. Generally, private placements provide broader access to management information, strengthened negotiated protective covenants, call protection features and, where applicable, a higher level of collateral. They are, however, generally not freely tradable because of restrictions imposed by federal and state securities laws and illiquid trading markets. 74 The following table shows the carrying amount of our corporate fixed maturity securities by Salomon industry category, as well as the percentage of the total corporate portfolio that each Salomon industry category comprises as of December 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005.  U.S. Invested Assets Corporate Fixed Maturity Securities by Salomon Industry December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 Carrying Amount % of Total Carrying Amount % of Total ($ in millions) Industry Class Finance Bank $ 3,659.2 12 % $ 3,451.0 12 % Finance Insurance 3,119.1 10 3,010.3 10 Finance Other 4,792.2 16 4,090.1 14 Industrial Consumer 1,100.0 4 1,067.2 4 Industrial Energy 2,683.2 9 2,718.4 9 Industrial Manufacturing 5,518.4 18 5,223.3 18 Industrial Other 105.3 106.4 Industrial Service 4,462.3 15 4,548.7 15 Industrial Transport 836.9 3 848.6 3 Utility Electric 2,417.9 8 2,568.6 9 Utility Other 47.6 47.9 Utility Telecom 1,645.5 5 1,811.8 6 Total $ 30,387.6 100 % $ 29,492.3 100 % We monitor any decline in the credit quality of fixed maturity securities through the designation of "problem securities", "potential problem securities" and "restructured securities". We define problem securities in our fixed maturity portfolio as securities: (i) as to which principal and or interest payments are in default or where default is perceived to be imminent in the near term, or (ii) issued by a company that went into bankruptcy subsequent to the acquisition of such securities. We define potential problem securities in our fixed maturity portfolio as securities included on an internal "watch list" for which management has concerns as to the ability of the issuer to comply with the present debt payment terms and which may result in the security becoming a problem or being restructured. The decision whether to classify a performing fixed maturity security as a potential problem involves significant subjective judgments by our management as to the likely future industry conditions and developments with respect to the issuer. We define restructured securities in our fixed maturity portfolio as securities where a concession has been granted to the borrower related to the borrowers financial difficulties that would not have otherwise been considered. We determine that restructures should occur in those instances where greater economic value will be realized under the new terms than through liquidation or other disposition and may involve a change in contractual cash flows. If at the time of restructure, the present value of the new future cash flows is less than the current cost of the asset being restructured, a realized capital loss is recorded in net income and a new cost basis is established. We have a process in place to identify securities that could potentially have a credit impairment that is other than temporary. This process involves monitoring market events that could impact issuers credit ratings, business climate, management changes, litigation and government actions, and other similar factors. This process also involves monitoring late payments, pricing levels, downgrades by rating agencies, key financial ratios, financial statements, revenue forecasts and cash flow projections as indicators of credit issues. Every month, a group of individuals including the Chief Investment Officer, our Portfolio Managers, members of our Workout Group, and representatives from Investment Accounting review all securities to determine whether an other than temporary decline in value exists and whether losses should be recognized. The analysis focuses on each issuers ability to service its debts in a timely fashion and the length of time the security has been trading below cost. Formal documentation of the analysis and the Companys decision is prepared and approved by management. We consider relevant facts and circumstances in evaluating whether the credit impairment of a security is other than temporary. Relevant facts and circumstances considered include: (1) the length of time the fair value has been below cost; (2) the financial position and access to capital of the issuer, including the current and future impact of any specific events; and (3) our ability and intent to hold the security to maturity or until it recovers in value. To the extent we determine that a security is deemed to be other than temporarily impaired, the difference between amortized cost and fair value would be charged to earnings. There are a number of significant risks and uncertainties inherent in the process of monitoring credit impairments and determining if an impairment is other than temporary. These risks and uncertainties include: (1) the risk that our assessment of an issuers ability to meet all of its contractual obligations will change based on changes in the credit 75 characteristics of that issuer, (2) the risk that the economic outlook will be worse than expected or have more of an impact on the issuer than anticipated, (3) the risk that our investment professionals are making decisions based on fraudulent or misstated information in the financial statements provided by issuers and (4) the risk that new information obtained by us or changes in other facts and circumstances lead us to change our intent to hold the security to maturity or until it recovers in value. Any of these situations could result in a charge to earnings in a future period. The net realized gain relating to other than temporary credit impairments of fixed maturity securities was $1.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. The single largest other than temporary credit impairment represented less than 0.1% of U.S. fixed maturity securities as of December 31, 2006. To fund the acquisition of WM Advisors, we also recognized $12.4 million of impairment write downs for the year ended December 31, 2006, that resulted from our determination that we no longer had the ability and intent to hold certain fixed maturity securities until they recovered in value. This loss is net of any recovery realized on the subsequent sale of the securities. For the year ended December 31, 2006, we realized $30.2 million of gross losses upon disposal of bonds excluding hedging adjustments. Included in this $30.2 million is $22.2 million related to sales of thirty two credit impaired and credit related names. We generally intend to hold securities in unrealized loss positions until they mature or recover. However, we do sell bonds under certain circumstances such as when we have evidence of a significant deterioration in the issuers creditworthiness, when a change in regulatory requirements modifies what constitutes a permissible investment or the maximum level of investments held or when there is an increase in capital requirements or a change in risk weights of debt securities. Also included in the $30.2 million is $6.3 million resulting from the sale of certain hybrid securities that had a regulatory classification change that resulted in increased capital requirements. Sales generate both gains and losses. The following tables present our fixed maturity securities available for sale by industry category and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses as of December 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005.  U.S. Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Industry Category December 31, 2006 Amortized Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Carrying Amount (in millions) Finance Bank $ 3,592.1 $ 78.3 $ 21.9 $ 3,648.5 Finance Insurance 3,057.4 83.0 21.8 3,118.6 Finance Other 4,661.3 166.9 36.5 4,791.7 Industrial Consumer 1,082.1 29.1 11.3 1,099.9 Industrial Energy 2,552.2 145.5 15.7 2,682.0 Industrial Manufacturing 5,406.1 155.8 44.0 5,517.9 Industrial Other 104.7 1.3 0.7 105.3 Industrial Service 4,344.3 143.9 26.9 4,461.3 Industrial Transport 796.0 46.2 5.3 836.9 Utility Electric 2,343.5 91.9 17.7 2,417.7 Utility Other 41.0 6.6 47.6 Utility Telecom 1,569.0 87.6 11.3 1,645.3 Total corporate securities 29,549.7 1,036.1 213.1 30,372.7 U.S. Government and agencies 530.8 0.8 3.8 527.8 States and political subdivisions 1,557.7 45.4 4.9 1,598.2 Non U.S. governments 384.9 36.1 0.3 420.7 Mortgage backed and other asset backed securities 9,165.6 217.4 77.8 9,305.2 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ 41,188.7 $ 1,335.8 $ 299.9 $ 42,224.6 76  U.S. Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Industry Category December 31, 2005 Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Carrying Amount (in millions) Finance Bank $ 3,354.9 $ 110.6 $ 14.5 $ 3,451.0 Finance Insurance 2,915.0 111.3 16.0 3,010.3 Finance Other 3,932.5 181.5 23.9 4,090.1 Industrial Consumer 1,038.0 36.5 7.3 1,067.2 Industrial Energy 2,506.5 220.2 8.3 2,718.4 Industrial Manufacturing 5,060.9 201.4 39.0 5,223.3 Industrial Other 104.4 2.3 0.3 106.4 Industrial Service 4,369.6 204.4 25.3 4,548.7 Industrial Transport 795.1 57.0 3.5 848.6 Utility Electric 2,455.3 123.8 10.5 2,568.6 Utility Other 41.2 6.7 47.9 Utility Telecom 1,701.8 118.6 8.6 1,811.8 Total corporate securities 28,275.2 1,374.3 157.2 29,492.3 U.S. Government and agencies 557.9 1.8 4.2 555.5 States and political subdivisions 1,222.6 45.7 3.8 1,264.5 Non U.S. governments 416.2 47.2 0.4 463.0 Mortgage backed and other asset backed securities 8,045.5 267.8 77.9 8,235.4 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ 38,517.4 $ 1,736.8 $ 243.5 $ 40,010.7 The total unrealized losses on our fixed maturity securities available for sale were $299.9 million and $243.5 million as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Of the $299.9 million in gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2006, there were $4.9 million in losses attributed to securities scheduled to mature in one year or less, $60.9 million is attributed to securities scheduled to mature between one to five years, $96.3 million is attributed to securities scheduled to mature between five to ten years, $60.0 million is attributed to securities scheduled to mature after ten years, and $77.8 million is related to mortgage backed and other asset backed securities. The gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2006 were concentrated primarily in the Mortgage backed and other asset backed securities, Industrial Manufacturing, Financial Other, and Industrial Services sectors. The gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2005 were concentrated primarily in the Mortgage backed and other asset backed securities, Industrial Manufacturing, Industrial Services, and Financial Other sectors. The following tables present our fixed maturity securities available for sale by investment grade and below investment grade and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses as of December 31, 2006, and 2005.  U.S. Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Quality December 31, 2006 Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Carrying Amount (in millions) Investment Grade: Public $ 26,995.7 $ 770.7 $ 201.5 $ 27,564.9 Private 12,292.4 469.5 87.3 12,674.6 Below Investment Grade: Public 1,070.5 44.2 6.0 1,108.7 Private 830.1 51.4 5.1 876.4 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ 41,188.7 $ 1,335.8 $ 299.9 $ 42,224.6 77   U.S. Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Quality December 31, 2005 Amortized Cost Gross Unrealized Gains Gross Unrealized Losses Carrying Amount (in millions) Investment Grade: Public $ 25,638.9 $ 1,024.9 $ 164.3 $ 26,499.5 Private 10,827.8 584.5 64.2 11,348.1 Below Investment Grade: Public 1,263.4 54.4 9.9 1,307.9 Private 787.3 73.0 5.1 855.2 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ 38,517.4 $ 1,736.8 $ 243.5 $ 40,010.7  U.S. Invested Assets Unrealized Losses on Investment Grade Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Aging Category December 31, 2006 Public Private Total Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses (in millions) Three months or less $ 2,730.4 $ 17.6 $ 1,471.2 $ 9.1 $ 4,201.6 $ 26.7 Greater than three to six months 30.3 0.4 22.7 0.3 53.0 0.7 Greater than six to nine months 224.8 1.6 107.1 1.3 331.9 2.9 Greater than nine to twelve months 1,502.6 28.2 549.9 8.2 2,052.5 36.4 Greater than twelve to twenty four months 5,688.9 126.0 1,938.1 52.2 7,627.0 178.2 Greater than twenty four to thirty six months 843.4 22.9 365.5 10.2 1,208.9 33.1 Greater than thirty six months 101.5 4.8 113.9 6.0 215.4 10.8 Total fixed maturities, available for sale $ 11,121.9 $ 201.5 $ 4,568.4 $ 87.3 $ 15,690.3 $ 288.8  U.S. Invested Assets Unrealized Losses on Investment Grade Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Aging Category December 31, 2005 Public Private Total Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses (in millions) Three months or less $ 1,907.9 $ 11.3 $ 774.3 $ 6.3 $ 2,682.2 $ 17.6 Greater than three to six months 4,332.5 79.6 1,574.5 29.3 5,907.0 108.9 Greater than six to nine months 416.3 12.9 109.5 2.8 525.8 15.7 Greater than nine to twelve months 1,032.0 22.3 212.3 5.2 1,244.3 27.5 Greater than twelve to twenty four months 1,191.2 33.3 457.2 14.7 1,648.4 48.0 Greater than twenty four to thirty six months 118.5 4.8 161.8 5.9 280.3 10.7 Greater than thirty six months 1.4 0.1 1.4 0.1 Total fixed maturities, available for sale $ 8,999.8 $ 164.3 $ 3,289.6 $ 64.2 $ 12,289.4 $ 228.5 78  U.S. Invested Assets Unrealized Losses on Below Investment Grade Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Aging Category December 31, 2006 Public Private Total Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses (in millions) Three months or less $ 64.0 $ 0.2 $ 83.5 $ 0.5 $ 147.5 $ 0.7 Greater than three to six months Greater than six to nine months 38.7 1.0 38.7 1.0 Greater than nine to twelve months 56.6 1.3 56.6 1.3 Greater than twelve to twenty four months 152.8 3.5 117.8 3.0 270.6 6.5 Greater than twenty four to thirty six months 27.3 1.5 27.3 1.5 Greater than thirty six months 0.6 0.1 0.6 0.1 Total fixed maturities, available for sale $ 312.1 $ 6.0 $ 229.2 $ 5.1 $ 541.3 $ 11.1  U.S. Invested Assets Unrealized Losses on Below Investment Grade Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Aging Category December 31, 2005 Public Private Total Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses (in millions) Three months or less $ 121.9 $ 0.7 $ 55.8 $ 1.8 $ 177.7 $ 2.5 Greater than three to six months 81.9 4.7 36.4 0.8 118.3 5.5 Greater than six to nine months 50.8 0.8 36.8 1.2 87.6 2.0 Greater than nine to twelve months 49.2 1.9 18.4 0.5 67.6 2.4 Greater than twelve to twenty four months 36.9 1.2 8.5 0.3 45.4 1.5 Greater than twenty four to thirty six months 0.6 0.1 0.6 0.1 Greater than thirty six months 49.9 0.6 19.8 0.4 69.7 1.0 Total fixed maturities, available for sale $ 390.6 $ 9.9 $ 176.3 $ 5.1 $ 566.9 $ 15.0 Of total gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, $288.8 million and $228.5 million were related to investment grade securities, respectively. Gross unrealized losses related to below investment grade securities were $11.1 million and $15.0 million as of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005, respectively. 79 The following tables present the carrying amount and gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity securities available for sale, where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more as of December 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005.  U.S. Invested Assets Unrealized Losses on Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Aging Category December 31, 2006 Problem, Potential Problem, and Restructured All Other Fixed Maturity Securities Total Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses (in millions) Three months or less $ $ $ 0.7 $ 0.2 $ 0.7 $ 0.2 Greater than three to six months 0.3 0.2 0.3 0.2 Greater than six to nine months Greater than nine to twelve months Greater than twelve months Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ $ $ 1.0 $ 0.4 $ 1.0 $ 0.4  U.S. Invested Assets Unrealized Losses on Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Aging Category December 31, 2005 Problem, Potential Problem, and Restructured All Other Fixed Maturity Securities Total Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses Carrying Amount Gross Unrealized Losses (in millions) Three months or less $ $ $ 4.2 $ 2.1 $ 4.2 $ 2.1 Greater than three to six months Greater than six to nine months Greater than nine to twelve months Greater than twelve months Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ $ $ 4.2 $ 2.1 $ 4.2 $ 2.1 Gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity securities where the estimated fair value has been 20% or more below amortized cost were $0.4 million as of December 31, 2006 and $2.1 million as of December 31, 2005. There were no gross unrealized losses attributed to those securities considered to be "problem", "potential problem" or "restructured" as of December 31, 2006 and December 31, 2005. 80  The following table presents the total carrying amount of our fixed maturity portfolio, as well as its problem, potential problem and restructured fixed maturities for the periods indicated:  U.S. Invested Assets Problem, Potential Problem and Restructured Fixed Maturities at Carrying Amount December 31, 2006 2005 ($ in millions) Total fixed maturity securities (public and private) $ 42,423.8 $ 40,115.7 Problem fixed maturity securities $ 3.5 $ 42.0 Potential problem fixed maturity securities 2.2 101.6 Restructured fixed maturity securities 11.2 Total problem, potential problem and restructured fixed maturity securities $ 16.9 $ 143.6 Total problem, potential problem and restructured fixed maturity securities as a percent of total fixed maturity securities .04 % .36 % Mortgage Loans Mortgage loans consist primarily of commercial mortgage loans on real estate. At December 31, 2006, commercial mortgage loans aggregated to $10,090.3 million. Commercial mortgage loans on real estate are generally reported at cost adjusted for amortization of premiums and accrual of discounts, computed using the interest method, and net of valuation allowances. Commercial mortgage loans held for sale are carried at the lower of cost or fair value, less cost to sell, and reported as mortgage loans in the statements of financial position. Commercial mortgages play an important role in our investment strategy by: providing strong risk adjusted relative value in comparison to other investment alternatives; enhancing total returns; and providing strategic portfolio diversification. As a result, we have focused on constructing a solid, high quality portfolio of mortgages. Our portfolio is generally comprised of mortgages with conservative loan to value ratios, high debt service coverages and general purpose property types with a strong credit tenancy. Our commercial loan portfolio consists of primarily non recourse, fixed rate mortgages on fully or near fully leased properties. The mortgage portfolio is comprised of general purpose industrial properties, manufacturing office properties and credit oriented retail properties. Credit extensions in the state of California accounted for 17% of our commercial mortgage loan portfolio as of December 31, 2006. We are, therefore, exposed to potential losses resulting from the risk of catastrophes, such as earthquakes, that may affect the region. Like other lenders, we generally do not require earthquake insurance for properties on which we make commercial mortgage loans. With respect to California properties, however, we obtain an engineering report specific to each property. The report assesses the buildings design specifications, whether it has been upgraded to meet seismic building codes and the maximum loss that is likely to result from a variety of different seismic events. We also obtain a report that assesses, by building and geographic fault lines, the amount of loss our commercial mortgage loan portfolio might suffer under a variety of seismic events. Our commercial loan portfolio is highly diversified by borrower. As of December 31, 2006, 38% of the U.S. commercial mortgage loan portfolio was comprised of mortgage loans with principal balances of less than $10.0 million. The total number of commercial mortgage loans outstanding as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 was 1,262 and 1,309, respectively. The average loan size of our commercial mortgage portfolio was $8.0 million as of December 31, 2006. We actively monitor and manage our commercial mortgage loan portfolio. Substantially all loans within the portfolio are analyzed regularly and are internally rated, based on a proprietary risk rating cash flow model, in order to monitor the financial quality of these assets. Based on ongoing monitoring, mortgage loans with a likelihood of becoming delinquent are identified and placed on an internal "watch list". Among criteria which would indicate a potential problem are: imbalances in ratios of loan to value or contract rents to debt service, major tenant vacancies or bankruptcies, borrower sponsorship problems, late payments, delinquent taxes and loan relief/restructuring requests. We review our mortgage loan portfolio and analyze the need for a valuation allowance for any loan which is delinquent for 60 days or more, in process of foreclosure, restructured, on the "watch list", or which currently has a valuation allowance. We categorize loans, which are delinquent, loans in process of foreclosure, and loans to borrowers in 81 bankruptcy as "problem" loans. Potential problem loans are loans placed on an internal "watch list" for which management has concerns as to the ability of the borrower to comply with the present loan payment terms and which may result in the loan becoming a problem or being restructured. The decision whether to classify a performing loan as a potential problem involves significant subjective judgments by management as to the likely future economic conditions and developments with respect to the borrower. We categorize loans for which the original terms of the mortgages have been modified or for which interest or principal payments have been deferred as "restructured" loans. We also consider matured loans that are refinanced at below market rates as restructured. The valuation allowance for commercial mortgage loans includes a loan specific allowance for impaired loans and a provision for losses based on past loss experience believed to be adequate to absorb estimated probable credit losses. The changes in this valuation allowance are reported as a net realized/unrealized capital loss on our consolidated statements of operations. Commercial mortgage loans on real estate are considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to contractual terms of the loan agreement. When we determine that a loan is impaired, a valuation allowance is established or a direct write down of the loan is recorded for the difference between the carrying amount of the mortgage loan and the estimated value. Estimated value is based on either the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at the loans effective interest rate, the loans observable market price or fair value of the collateral. When a valuation allowance is established, subsequent recoveries are charged to the valuation allowance and subsequent losses may be charged to the valuation allowance or as a direct write down of the loan. The determination of the calculation and the adequacy of the mortgage loan loss provision based on past experience and mortgage impairments is subjective. Our periodic evaluation and assessment of the adequacy of the provision for losses and the need for mortgage impairments is based on known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrowers ability to repay, the estimated value of the underlying collateral, composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions, loss experience and other relevant factors. The current portfolio statistics and past loss experience produced a provision for the Principal Life general account totaling $30.7 million. The evaluation of our impaired loan component of the allowance is subjective, as it requires estimating the amounts and timing of future cash flows expected to be received on impaired loans. Our financial position is sensitive to changes in estimated cash flows from mortgages, the value of the collateral, and changes in the economic environment in general. Decreases in the valuation allowance aggregated to $1.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006, and $9.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2005. The following table represents our commercial mortgage valuation allowance for the periods indicated:  U.S. Invested Assets Commercial Mortgage Valuation Allowance December 31, 2006 2005 ($ in millions) Beginning balance $ 33.2 $ 42.4 Provision 1.3 6.7 Release (2.3 ) (15.9 ) Ending balance $ 32.2 $ 33.2 Valuation allowance as % of carrying value before reserves .32 % .33 % 82 The following table presents the carrying amounts of problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages relative to the carrying amount of all commercial mortgages for the periods indicated:  U.S. Invested Assets Problem, Potential Problem and Restructured Commercial Mortgages at Carrying Amount December 31, 2006 2005 ($ in millions) Total commercial mortgages $ 10,090.3 $ 9,890.7 Problem commercial mortgages(1) $ 10.7 $ 10.4 Potential problem commercial mortgages 9.1 10.2 Restructured commercial mortgages 6.8 65.1 Total problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages $ 26.6 $ 85.7 Total problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages as a percent of total commercial mortgages .26 % .87 % (1)Problem commercial mortgages include mortgage loans in foreclosure of $10.6 million as of December 31, 2006. This is the same mortgage loan that was in foreclosure as of December 31, 2005. Equity Real Estate We hold commercial equity real estate as part of our investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2006, and 2005, the carrying amount of equity real estate investment was $854.8 million and $888.4 million, or 1% and 1%, of U.S. invested assets, respectively. Our commercial equity real estate is held in the form of wholly owned real estate, real estate acquired upon foreclosure of commercial mortgage loans, and majority owned interests in real estate joint ventures. Equity real estate is categorized as either "real estate held for investment" or "real estate held for sale". Real estate held for investment totaled $736.6 million as of December 31, 2006, and $754.6 million as of December 31, 2005. The carrying value of real estate held for investment is generally adjusted for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. Such impairment adjustments are recorded as realized investment losses and accordingly, are reflected in our consolidated results of operations. For the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, there were no such impairment adjustments. The carrying amount of real estate held for sale as of December 31, 2006, and 2005, was $118.2 million and $133.8 million, net of valuation allowances of $4.7 million and $4.2 million, respectively. Once we identify a real estate property to be sold and commence a plan for marketing the property, we classify the property as held for sale. We establish a valuation allowance subject to periodic revisions, if necessary, to adjust the carrying value of the property to reflect the lower of its current carrying value or the fair value, less associated selling costs. We use research, both internal and external, to recommend appropriate product and geographic allocations and changes to the equity real estate portfolio. We monitor product, geographic and industry diversification separately and together to determine the most appropriate mix. Equity real estate is distributed across geographic regions of the country with larger concentrations in the South Atlantic, Pacific, and West South Central regions of the United States as of December 31, 2006. By property type, there is a concentration in office buildings and industrial sites that represented approximately 63% of the equity real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2006. Other Investments Our other investments totaled $972.6 million as of December 31, 2006, compared to $755.3 million as of December 31, 2005. Derivatives accounted for $699.2 million in other investments as of December 31, 2006. The remaining invested assets include equity method investments, which include properties owned jointly with venture partners and operated by the partners. International Investment Operations As of December 31, 2006, our international investment operations consist of the investments of Principal International comprised of $3.3 billion in invested assets. Principal Global Investors advises each Principal International affiliate on investment policies and strategies that are consistent with the products they offer. Due to the regulatory constraints in each country, each company maintains its own investment policies. 83 Overall Composition of International Invested Assets As shown in the following table, the major categories of international invested assets as of December 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005, were fixed maturity securities and residential mortgage loans:  International Invested Assets December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 Carrying Amount % of Total Carrying Amount % of Total ($ in millions) Fixed maturity securities Public $ 2,303.1 69 % $ 2,114.1 69 % Private 0.6 Equity securities 51.9 2 50.7 2 Mortgage loans Residential 522.0 16 505.1 17 Real estate held for investment 12.2 11.7 Other investments 438.1 13 358.2 12 Total invested assets 3,327.3 100 % 3,040.4 100 % Cash and cash equivalents 55.0 56.2 Total invested assets and cash $ 3,382.3 $ 3,096.6  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Market Risk Exposures and Risk Management Market risk is the risk that we will incur losses due to adverse fluctuations in market rates and prices. Our primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates, although we also have exposures to changes in equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. The active management of market risk is an integral part of our operations. We manage our overall market risk exposure within established risk tolerance ranges by using the following approaches: rebalance our existing asset or liability portfolios; control the risk structure of newly acquired assets and liabilities; or use derivative instruments to modify the market risk characteristics of existing assets or liabilities or assets expected to be purchased. Interest Rate Risk Interest rate risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse changes in interest rates. One source of interest rate risk is the inherent difficulty in obtaining assets that mature or have their rate reset at the exact same time as the liabilities they support. Assets may have to be reinvested or sold in the future to meet the liability cashflows in unknown interest rate environments. Also, there may be timing differences between when new liabilities are priced and when assets are purchased or procured that can cause fluctuations in profitability if interest rates move materially in the interim. A third source of interest rate risk is the prepayment options embedded within asset and liability contracts that can alter the cash flow profiles from what was originally expected. One of the measures we use to quantify our exposure to interest rate risk is duration. To calculate duration, we project asset and liability cashflows. These cash flows are discounted to a net present value basis using a spot yield curve, which is a blend of the spot yield curves for each of the asset types in the portfolio. Duration is calculated by re calculating these cashflows, re determining the net present value based upon an alternative level of interest rates, and determining the percentage change in fair value. We manage interest rate risks in a number of ways. Differences in durations between assets and liabilities are measured and kept within acceptable tolerances. Derivatives are also commonly used to mitigate interest rate risk due to cashflow mismatches and timing differences. Prepayment risk is controlled by limiting our exposure to investments that are prepayable without penalty prior to maturity at the option of the issuer. We also require additional yield on these investments to compensate for the risk the issuer will exercise such option. Prepayment risk is also controlled by limiting the sales of liabilities with features such as puts or other options that can be exercised against the company at inopportune times. 84 Duration Managed. Our exposure to interest rate risk stems largely from our substantial holdings of guaranteed fixed rate liabilities in our U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment. We actively manage the duration of assets and liabilities in these products by minimizing the difference between the two. We have established a maximum tolerance for this difference and seek to stay within this tolerance. As of December 31, 2006, the difference between the asset and liability durations on our primary duration managed portfolio was +.03. This duration gap indicates that, as of this date, the sensitivity of the fair value of our assets to interest rate movements is greater than that of the fair value of our liabilities. Our goal is to minimize the duration gap. Currently, our guidelines indicate that total duration gaps between the asset and liability portfolios should be within +/ 0.25. The value of the assets in this portfolio was $33,027.5 million as of December 31, 2006. Duration Monitored. For products such as whole life insurance and term life insurance that are less sensitive to interest rate risk, and for other products such as individual single premium deferred annuities, we manage interest rate risk based on a modeling process that considers the target average life, maturities, crediting rates and assumptions of policyholder behavior. As of December 31, 2006, the weighted average difference between the asset and liability durations on these portfolios was +.51. This duration gap indicates that, as of this date, the sensitivity of the fair value of our assets to interest rate movements is greater than that of the fair value of our liabilities. We attempt to monitor this duration gap consistent with our overall risk/reward tolerances. The value of the assets in these portfolios was $16,314.3 million as of December 31, 2006. Non Duration Managed. We also have a block of participating general account pension business that passes most of the actual investment performance of the assets to the customer. The investment strategy of this block is to maximize investment return to the customer on a "best efforts" basis, and there is little or no attempt to manage the duration of this portfolio since there is little or no interest rate risk. The value of the assets in these portfolios was $4,875.7 million as of December 31, 2006. Using the assumptions and data in effect as of December 31, 2006, we estimate that a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase in interest rates decreases the net fair value of our portfolio by approximately $92.5 million. The following table details the estimated changes by risk management strategy. The table also gives the weighted average duration of the asset portfolio for each category, and the net duration gap (i.e. the weighted average difference between the asset and liability durations). December 31, 2006 Risk Management Strategy Value of Total Assets Duration of Assets Net Duration Gap Net Fair Value Change (in millions) (in millions) Primary duration managed $ 33,027.5 3.76 .03 $ (9.9 ) Duration monitored 16,314.3 4.84 .51 (82.6 ) Non duration managed 4,875.7 4.09 N/A N/A Total $ 54,217.5 $ (92.5 ) Our selection of a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase or decrease in interest rates is a hypothetical rate scenario we use to demonstrate potential risk. While a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase does not represent our view of future market changes, it is a near term reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. While these fair value measurements provide a representation of interest rate sensitivity, they are based on our portfolio exposures at a point in time and may not be representative of future market results. These exposures will change as a result of ongoing portfolio transactions in response to new business, managements assessment of changing market conditions and available investment opportunities. 85 Debt Issued and Outstanding. As of December 31, 2006, the aggregate fair value of long term debt was $1,622.7 million. A 100 basis point, immediate, parallel decrease in interest rates would increase the fair value of debt by approximately $124.0 million. Debt is not recorded at fair value on the statement of financial position. December 31, 2006 Fair Value (no accrued interest) 100 Basis Point Change No Change +100 Basis Point Change (in millions) 8.2% notes payable, due 2009 $ 509.7 $ 497.7 $ 486.2 4.59% notes payable, due 2011 57.3 54.9 52.5 4.93% notes payable, due 2011 47.4 45.4 43.5 6.05% notes payable, due 2036 710.0 614.2 536.9 8% surplus notes payable, due 2044 116.7 108.3 99.6 Non recourse mortgages and notes payable 264.6 261.6 258.7 Other mortgages and notes payable 41.0 40.6 40.2 Total long term debt $ 1,746.7 $ 1,622.7 $ 1,517.6 Use of Derivatives to Manage Interest Rate Risk. We use various derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, including interest rate swaps, swaptions, futures, total return swaps, mortgage backed forwards and options. We use interest rate swaps, futures contracts and mortgage backed forwards to hedge changes in interest rates subsequent to the issuance of an insurance liability, such as a guaranteed investment contract, but prior to the purchase of a supporting asset, or during periods of holding assets in anticipation of near term liability sales. We use interest rate swaps primarily to more closely match the interest rate characteristics of assets and liabilities. They can be used to change the sensitivity to the interest rate of specific assets and liabilities as well as an entire portfolio. We also use these instruments to hedge the interest rate exposure in our commercial mortgage backed securitization operations. Occasionally, we will sell a callable investment type agreement and will use written interest rate swaptions to transform the callable liability into a fixed term liability. Foreign Currency Risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. This risk arises from foreign currency denominated funding agreements issued to non qualified institutional investors in the international market, foreign currency denominated fixed maturity securities and demand deposits purchased, and our international operations. We estimate that as of December 31, 2006, a 10% immediate unfavorable change in each of the foreign currency exchange rates to which we are exposed would result in no material change to the net fair value of our foreign currency denominated instruments identified above, including the currency swap agreements, because we effectively hedge foreign currency denominated instruments to minimize exchange rate impacts. The selection of a 10% immediate unfavorable change in all currency exchange rates should not be construed as a prediction by us of future market events, but rather as an illustration of the potential impact of such an event. Use of Derivatives to Manage Foreign Currency Risk. The foreign currency risk on funding agreements and fixed maturity securities is eliminated by using currency swaps that swap the foreign currency interest and principal payments to our functional currency. The notional amount of our currency swap agreements associated with foreign denominated liabilities as of December 31, 2006, was $3,578.9 million. The notional amount of our currency swap agreements associated with foreign denominated fixed maturity securities as of December 31, 2006, was $1,728.2 million. With regard to our international operations, we attempt to do as much of our business as possible in the functional currency of the country of operation. At times, however, we are unable to do so, and in these cases, we use foreign exchange derivatives to economically hedge the resulting risks. As of December 31, 2006, our operations in Chile had currency swaps with a notional amount of $24.0 million that are used to swap cash flows on U.S. dollar denominated bonds to a local currency. Chile also utilized currency forwards with a notional amount of $53.5 million in order to mitigate currency exposure related to U.S. dollar denominated bonds. Additionally, Principal International Corporate headquarters utilized currency forwards with a notional amount of $53.9 million in order to mitigate currency exposure related to planned capital flows for our joint venture company in Malaysia. Additionally, we may take measures to hedge our net equity investments in our foreign subsidiaries from currency risks. Currently, there are no outstanding net equity investment hedges. 86  Equity Risk Equity risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse fluctuations in a particular common stock. As of December 31, 2006, the fair value of our equity securities was $847.6 million. A 10% decline in the value of the equity securities would result in an unrealized loss of $84.8 million. The selection of a 10% unfavorable change in the equity markets should not be construed as a prediction by us of future market events, but rather as an illustration of the potential impact of such an event. We also have equity risk associated with (1) fixed deferred annuity products that credit interest to customers based on changes in an external equity index; (2) variable annuity contracts that have a GMWB rider that allows the customer to receive at least the principal deposit back through withdrawals of a specified annual amount, even if the account value is reduced to zero; (3) variable annuity contacts that have a guaranteed minimum death benefit ("GMDB") that allows the death benefit to be paid, even if the account value has fallen below the GMDB amount; (4) investment type contracts in which the return is tied to an external equity index; and (5) investment type contracts in which the return is subject to minimum contractual guarantees. Use of Derivatives to Manage Equity Risk. We economically hedge the fixed deferred annuity product by purchasing options that match the products profile. We economically hedge the GMWB exposure using futures, options and interest rate swaps. We economically hedge the investment contract exposure to an external equity index using equity call options. Credit Risk Credit risk relates to the uncertainty associated with the continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments of principal and interest. Our ability to manage credit risk is essential to our business and our profitability. See Item 7. "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Investments" for additional information about credit risk. Use of Derivatives to Diversify or Hedge Credit Risk. We sometimes purchase credit default swaps to hedge credit exposures in our investment portfolio. We sell credit default swaps to offer credit protection to investors. If there is an event of default by the referenced name, we are obligated to pay the counterparty the referenced amount of the contract and receive in return the referenced security. We have increased our credit exposure through credit default swaps by investing in $127.5 million of various tranches of synthetic collateralized debt obligations. The outstanding notional amount as of December 31, 2006 was $565.0 million. We also invested in credit default swaps creating replicated assets with a notional amount of $855.9 million as of December 31, 2006. In addition, on May 26, 2005, we invested $130.0 million in a secured limited recourse credit linked note issued by a grantor trust. The trust entered into a credit default swap providing credit protection on the first 45% of loss of seven mezzanine tranches totaling $288.9 million of seven synthetic reference portfolios. The risk of loss for the seven referenced mezzanine tranches begins at 4.85% and ends at 10.85% of loss on each of the seven synthetic reference portfolios. Therefore, defaults in an underlying reference portfolio will only affect the credit linked note if cumulative losses exceed 4.85% of a synthetic reference portfolio. As of December 31, 2006, the credit default swap entered into by the trust had an outstanding notional amount of $130.0 million. The creditors of the grantor trusts have no recourse to the assets of our company. Derivative Summary Notional amounts are used to express the extent of our involvement in derivative transactions and represent a standard measurement of the volume of our derivative activity. Notional amount is not a quantification of market risk or credit risk and it may not necessarily be recorded on the balance sheet. Notional amounts represent those amounts used to calculate contractual flows to be exchanged and are not paid or received, except for contracts such as currency swaps. Actual credit exposure represents the amount owed to us under derivative contracts as of the valuation date. The following tables present our position in, and credit exposure to, derivative financial instruments as of December 31, 2006, and December 31, 2005. 87  Derivative Financial Instruments Notional Amounts December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 Notional Amount % of Total Notional Amount % of Total ($ in millions) Interest rate swaps $ 12,365.5 55 % $ 8,531.3 50 % Foreign currency swaps 5,331.1 24 3,854.5 23 Embedded derivative financial instruments 1,679.4 8 1,199.5 7 Credit default swaps 1,550.9 7 1,297.6 8 Swaptions 643.4 3 684.5 4 Currency forwards 342.7 2 566.6 4 Call options 314.0 1 189.8 1 Futures 55.0 58.9 Bond options 21.0 38.5 Commodity swaps 20.0 Interest rate lock commitments 8.8 392.3 2 Total return swaps 100.0 1 Mortgage backed forwards and options 39.3 Total $ 22,331.8 100 % $ 16,952.8 100 %  Derivative Financial Instruments Credit Exposures December 31, 2006 December 31, 2005 Credit Exposure % of Total Credit Exposure % of Total ($ in millions) Foreign currency swaps $ 564.6 75 % $ 339.6 72 % Interest rate swaps 132.8 18 89.3 19 Call options 30.6 4 18.0 4 Credit default swaps 15.7 2 14.0 3 Currency forwards 7.6 1 11.4 2 Commodity swaps 0.7 Bond options 0.4 0.6 Total credit exposure 752.4 100 % 472.9 100 % Less: Collateral received (197.5 ) (97.6 ) Total $ 554.9 $ 375.3 The following table shows the interest rate sensitivity of our derivatives measured in terms of fair value. These exposures will change as a result of ongoing portfolio and risk management activities. December 31, 2006 Fair Value (no accrued interest) Notional Amount Weighted Average Term (Years) 100 Basis Point Change No Change +100 Basis Point Change ($ in millions) Interest rate swaps $ 12,365.5 5.70 (1) $ (135.9 ) $ 46.0 $ 204.1 Swaptions 643.4 6.64 (2) (41.8 ) (19.0 ) (7.8 ) Futures 38.2 .21 (3) (2.5 ) (0.1 ) 2.4 Bond options 21.0 1.24 (4) 0.1 0.4 0.8 Total $ 13,068.1 $ (180.1 ) $ 27.3 $ 199.5 (1)Based on maturity date of swap. (2)Based on option date of swaption. (3)Based on maturity date. (4)Based on settlement date. 88 We use U.S. Treasury futures to manage our over/under commitment position, and our position in these contracts changes daily. Counterparty Risk In conjunction with our use of derivatives, we are exposed to counterparty risk, or the risk that the counterparty fails to perform the terms of the derivative contract. We actively manage this risk by: establishing exposure limits which take into account non derivative exposure we have with the counterparty as well as derivative exposure; performing similar credit analysis prior to approval on each derivatives counterparty that we do when lending money on a long term basis; diversifying our risk across numerous approved counterparties; limiting exposure to A+ credit or better; conducting stress test analysis to determine the maximum exposure created during the life of a prospective transaction; implementing credit support annex (collateral) agreements with selected counterparties to further limit counterparty exposures; and daily monitoring of counterparty credit ratings. All new derivative counterparties are approved by the Investment Committee. We believe the risk of incurring losses due to nonperformance by our counterparties is manageable. Effects of Inflation We do not believe that inflation, in the United States or in the other countries in which we operate, has had a material effect on our consolidated operations over the past five years. In the future, however, we may be affected by inflation to the extent it causes interest rates to rise. 89  
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations U.S. Invested Assets U.S. Invested Assets Investment Income Yields by Asset Type U.S. Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities by Type of Issuer U.S. Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities by Credit Quality(1) U.S. Invested Assets Corporate Fixed Maturity Securities by Salomon Industry U.S. Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Industry Category U.S. Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Industry Category U.S. Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Quality U.S. Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Quality U.S. Invested Assets Unrealized Losses on Investment Grade Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Aging Category U.S. Invested Assets Unrealized Losses on Investment Grade Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Aging Category U.S. Invested Assets Unrealized Losses on Below Investment Grade Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Aging Category U.S. Invested Assets Unrealized Losses on Below Investment Grade Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Aging Category U.S. Invested Assets Unrealized Losses on Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Aging Category U.S. Invested Assets Unrealized Losses on Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Aging Category U.S. Invested Assets Problem, Potential Problem and Restructured Fixed Maturities at Carrying Amount U.S. Invested Assets Commercial Mortgage Valuation Allowance U.S. Invested Assets Problem, Potential Problem and Restructured Commercial Mortgages at Carrying Amount International Invested Assets Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Derivative Financial Instruments Notional Amounts Derivative Financial Instruments Credit Exposures 
 
