Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following analysis discusses our financial condition as of December 31, 2007, compared with December 31, 2006, and our consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, and, where appropriate, factors that may affect our future financial performance. The discussion should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes to the financial statements and the other financial information included elsewhere in this Form 10 K. Forward Looking Information Our narrative analysis below contains forward looking statements intended to enhance the readers ability to assess our future financial performance. Forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that represent our beliefs concerning future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments, and contain words and phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," and similar expressions. Forward looking statements are made based upon managements current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects on us. Such forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those included in the forward looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties. Those risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to the risk factors listed in Item 1A. "Risk Factors." Overview We provide financial products and services through the following reportable segments: U.S. Asset Accumulation, which consists of our asset accumulation operations that provide retirement savings and related investment products and services. We provide a comprehensive portfolio of asset accumulation products and services to businesses and individuals in the U.S., with a concentration on small and medium sized businesses. We offer to businesses products and services for defined contribution pension plans, including 401(k) and 403(b) plans, defined benefit pension plans, non qualified executive benefit plans and employee stock ownership plan consulting services. We also offer annuities, mutual funds and bank products and services to the employees of our business customers and other individuals. Global Asset Management, which consists of our asset management operations conducted through Principal Global Investors and its affiliates. Global Asset Management offers an extensive range of equity, fixed income and real estate investments as well as specialized overlay and advisory services to institutional investors. International Asset Management and Accumulation, which consists of Principal International, offers retirement products and services, annuities, mutual funds, institutional asset management and life insurance accumulation products through operations in Brazil, Chile, China, Hong Kong, India, Malaysia, and Mexico. Life and Health Insurance, which provides individual life insurance, group health insurance as well as specialty benefits in the U.S. Our individual life insurance products include universal and variable universal life insurance and traditional life insurance. Our health insurance products include group medical insurance and fee for service claims administration and wellness services. Our specialty benefit products include group dental and vision insurance, individual and group disability insurance and group life insurance. Corporate and Other, which manages the assets representing capital that has not been allocated to any other segment. Financial results of the Corporate and Other segment primarily reflect our financing activities (including interest expense), income on capital not allocated to other segments, inter segment eliminations, income tax risks and certain income, expenses and other after tax adjustments not allocated to the segments based on the nature of such items. Economic Factors and Trends Modest results in the equity markets along with an increase in net cash flow have led to increases in asset accumulations account values and our asset managements AUM. The credit market disruptions and market illiquidity experienced during the second half of 2007 resulted in an increase in our realized and unrealized capital losses. In our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment, we continued to grow our existing business through organic growth in our existing subsidiaries and a combination of joint ventures and strategic acquisitions. Over the past few years, we have shifted our marketing emphasis to universal and variable universal life insurance products from traditional life insurance products in our Life and Health segment. We are also in the early stages of a trend toward voluntary individual life insurance and specialty benefit products sponsored by employers. Our health insurance business has become less competitive, which has led to declines in covered members. 31 Profitability Our profitability depends in large part upon our: amount of AUM; spreads we earn on our policyholders general account asset accumulation business that result from the difference between what we earn and what we credit; ability to generate fee revenues by providing administrative and investment management services; ability to price our life and health insurance products at a level that enables us to earn a margin over the cost of providing benefits and the related expenses; ability to manage our investment portfolio to maximize investment returns and minimize risks such as interest rate changes or defaults or impairments of invested assets; ability to effectively hedge fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates on certain transactions; and ability to manage our operating expenses. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The increasing complexity of the business environment and applicable authoritative accounting guidance requires us to closely monitor our accounting policies. Our significant accounting policies are described in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1, Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies." We have identified five critical accounting policies that are complex and require significant judgment and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. A summary of our critical accounting policies is intended to enhance the readers ability to assess our financial condition and results of operations and the potential volatility due to changes in estimates and changes in guidance. The identification, selection and disclosure of critical accounting estimates and policies have been discussed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Valuation of Invested Assets Fixed Maturities, Available for Sale. Fixed maturity securities include bonds, mortgage backed securities and redeemable preferred stock. We classify our fixed maturity securities as either available for sale or trading and, accordingly, carry them at fair value in the statement of financial position. The fair values of our public fixed maturity securities are based on quoted market prices or estimates from independent pricing services. However, 24% of our invested asset portfolio is invested in fixed maturity securities that are private market assets, where there are no readily available market quotes to determine the fair market value. These assets are valued using a spread pricing matrix. Securities are grouped into pricing categories that vary by asset class, sector, rating and average life. Each pricing category is assigned a risk spread based on studies of observable public market data or market clearing data from the investment professionals assigned to specific security classes. The expected cash flows of the security are then discounted back at the current Treasury curve plus the appropriate risk spread. Although the matrix valuation approach provides a fair valuation of each pricing category, the valuation of an individual security within each pricing category may actually be impacted by company specific factors. Certain market events that could impact the valuation of securities include issuer credit ratings, business climate, management changes, litigation and government actions among others. Over the past several months, we have seen credit market disruption as the result of widening spreads and illiquid markets. These market conditions have been particularly hard on structured investment transactions where we rely on broker quotes or internal pricing models given the thinly traded markets (approximately 5% of the fixed maturity securities portfolio). We have received broker quotes that are outside a normal range for historical spreads and, in our view, are conservative given the quality of the underlying cash flows. Analysis has been performed to reconcile these external values to our view of the transaction. We view these broker quotes as conservative and at the low end of a reasonable range, and attribute the decreased values to the overall market conditions. An interest rate increase in the range of 20 to 100 basis points, while holding credit spreads constant, produces total values of $40.2 billion to $38.6 billion, as compared to the recorded amount of $40.5 billion related to our fixed maturity, available for sale assets held by the Principal Life general account as of December 31, 2007. This portfolio has a weighted average life of 7 years. An analysis of historical changes in the 7 year Treasury rate supports our belief that an interest rate change of 20 to 100 basis points is reasonably likely. Investments classified as available for sale are subject to impairment reviews. When evaluating a fixed maturity security for impairment, we consider relevant facts and circumstances in evaluating whether a credit or interest related impairment is other than temporary. Relevant facts and circumstances considered include: (1) the extent and length of time the fair value has been below cost; (2) the reasons for the decline in value; (3) the financial position and access to capital of the issuer, including the current and future impact of any specific events; and (4) our ability and intent to hold 32 the security for a period of time that allows for the recovery of value which, in some cases, may extend to maturity. When it is determined that the decline in value is other than temporary the carrying value of the security is reduced to its fair value, with a corresponding charge to net income. The corresponding charge is referred to as an other than temporary impairment and is reported in net income in our consolidated statement of operations. There are a number of significant risks and uncertainties inherent in the process of monitoring impairments and determining if an impairment is other than temporary. These risks and uncertainties include: (1) the risk that our assessment of an issuers ability to meet all of its contractual obligations will change based on changes in the credit characteristics of that issuer; (2) the risk that the economic outlook will be worse than expected or have more of an impact on the issuer than anticipated; (3) the risk that our investment professionals are making decisions based on fraudulent or misstated information in the financial statements provided by issuers; and (4) the risk that new information obtained by us or changes in other facts and circumstances lead us to change our intent to hold the security until it recovers in value. Any of these situations could result in a charge to net income in a future period. At December 31, 2007, we had $19,990.4 million in available for sale fixed maturity securities with gross unrealized losses totaling $1,187.6 million. Included in the gross unrealized losses are losses attributable to both movements in market interest rates as well as temporary credit issues. Net income would be reduced by approximately $1,187.6 million, on a pre tax basis, if all the securities were deemed to be other than temporarily impaired. Mortgage Loans. Mortgage loans consist primarily of commercial mortgage loans on real estate. At December 31, 2007, commercial mortgage loans aggregated to $10,763.5 million. Commercial mortgage loans are generally reported at cost adjusted for amortization of premiums and accrual of discounts, computed using the interest method and net of valuation allowances. Commercial mortgage loans held for sale are carried at the lower of cost or fair value, less cost to sell, and reported as mortgage loans in the statements of financial position. Commercial mortgage loans on real estate are considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to contractual terms of the loan agreement. When we determine that a loan is impaired, a valuation allowance is established for the difference between the carrying amount of the mortgage loan and the estimated value. Estimated value is based on either the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at the loans effective interest rate, the loans observable market price or fair value of the collateral. The change in valuation allowance is reported in net income on our consolidated statements of operations. The determination of the calculation and the adequacy of the mortgage loan allowance and mortgage impairments are subjective. Our periodic evaluation and assessment of the adequacy of the allowance for losses and the need for mortgage impairments is based on known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrowers ability to repay, the estimated value of the underlying collateral, composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions, loss experience and other relevant factors. The calculation for determining loan specific impairment amounts is also subjective, as it requires estimating the amounts and timing of future cash flows expected to be received on impaired loans. Our financial position is sensitive to changes in estimated cash flows from mortgages, the value of the collateral and changes in the economic environment in general. The allowance for losses can be expected to increase when economic conditions worsen and decrease when economic conditions improve. We have a large experienced commercial real estate staff centrally located in Des Moines, which includes commercial mortgage underwriters, loan closers, loan servicers, engineers, appraisers, credit analysts, research staff, legal staff, information technology personnel and portfolio managers. Experienced commercial real estate senior management adheres to a disciplined process in reviewing all transactions for approval on a consistent basis. The typical commercial mortgage loan for us averages in the mid 60 percent loan to value range at origination with a net operating income coverage ratio of 1.7 times the annual debt service and is internally rated A on a bond equivalent basis. Based on the most recent analysis, our commercial mortgage portfolio has an overall loan to value ratio of 59% with a 1.9 times debt service coverage. The large equity cushion and strong debt service coverage in our commercial mortgage investments will help insulate us from stress during times of weak commercial real estate fundamentals. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Other Actuarial Balances Commissions and other costs (underwriting, issuance and agency expenses) that vary with and are primarily related to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance policies and investment contract business are capitalized to the extent recoverable. Maintenance costs and acquisition costs that are not deferrable are charged to operations as incurred. Amortization Based on Estimated Gross Profits. DPAC for universal life type insurance contracts, participating life insurance policies and certain investment contracts are amortized over the expected lifetime of the policies in relation to estimated gross profits. In addition to DPAC, the following actuarial balances are also amortized in relation to estimated gross profits or contract assessments. 33 Sales inducement asset Sales inducements are amounts that are credited to the contractholders account balance as an inducement to increase sales. Like DPAC, the cost of the sales inducement is capitalized and amortized over the expected life of the contract, in proportion to estimated gross profits. Unearned revenue liability An unearned revenue liability is established when we collect fees or other policyholder assessments that represent compensation for services to be provided in future periods. These revenues are deferred and then amortized over the expected life of the contract, in proportion to estimated gross profits. Reinsurance asset or liability For universal life type products that are reinsured, a reinsurance asset or liability is established to spread the net reinsurance costs or profits in proportion to the estimated gross profits on the underlying business. Present value of future profits ("PVFP") This is an intangible asset that arises in connection with the acquisition of a life insurance company. PVFP is amortized over the expected life of the contracts acquired, in proportion to estimated gross profits. Additional benefit reserves These are additional liabilities that are established for annuity or universal life type contracts that provide benefit guarantees, or for contracts that are expected to produce profits followed by losses. The liabilities are accrued in relation to estimated contract assessments. At issue and each valuation date, we develop an estimate of the expected future gross profits. These estimated gross profits contain assumptions relating to mortality, morbidity, investment yield and expenses. As actual experience emerges, the gross profits may vary from those expected either in magnitude or timing in which case a true up to actual occurs as a charge or credit to current operations. In addition, we are required to revise our assumptions regarding future experience as soon as the current assumptions are no longer actuarially credible. Both actions, reflecting actual experience and changing future estimates, can change both the current amount and the future amortization pattern of the DPAC asset and related actuarial balances. For individual variable annuities and group annuities which have separate account equity investment options, we utilize a mean reversion method (reversion to the mean assumption), a common industry practice, to determine the future domestic equity market growth rate assumption used for the calculation of estimated gross profits. If actual equity market performance varies from the 8% assumption, we assume different performance levels over the next 30 quarters such that the mean return equals the long term assumption. However, our mean reversion process generally limits assumed returns to 4 12% during the 30 quarter mean reversion period. Internal Replacements. We review polices for modifications that result in the exchange of an existing contract for a new contract. If the new contract is determined to be an internal replacement that is substantially changed from the replaced contract, any unamortized DPAC and actuarial balances are written off and acquisition costs related to the new contract are capitalized as appropriate. If the new contract is substantially unchanged, we continue to amortize the related DPAC and actuarial balances. Recoverability. DPAC and sales inducement assets are subject to recoverability testing at the time of policy issue and loss recognition testing on an annual basis, or when an event occurs that may warrant loss recognition. Likewise, PVFP is subject to impairment testing on an annual basis, or when an event occurs that may warrant impairment. If loss recognition or impairment is necessary, the asset balances are written off to the extent that it is determined that future policy premiums and investment income or gross profits are not adequate to cover related losses and expenses. 34  Sensitivities. As of December 31, 2007, the net balance of DPAC and related actuarial balances was a $3,014.7 million asset. We perform sensitivity analyses to assess the impact that certain assumptions have on our DPAC and related actuarial balances. The following table shows the estimated immediate impact of various assumption changes on our DPAC and related actuarial balances. Estimated impact to net income(1) (in millions) Reducing the future equity return assumption by 1% $ (10.4 ) Removing the mean reversion methodology from the estimated gross profit calculation $ (0.4 ) A one time, 10% drop in equity market values $ (12.5 ) Increasing all future lapse rate assumptions by 10% of the baseline assumption (2) $ (22.9 ) (1)Reflects the net impact of changes to the DPAC asset, sales inducement asset, unearned revenue liability, reinsurance asset or liability, PVFP and additional benefit reserves. (2)This calculation reflects an increase in lapse rates only for products where increasing the lapse rate leads to a write down of the DPAC asset. Lapse rates were left unchanged for those products where an increase in lapse rates would lead to a write up of the DPAC asset. Amortization Based on Premium paying Period. DPAC of non participating term life and individual disability insurance policies are amortized over the premium paying period of the related policies using assumptions consistent with those used in computing policyholder liabilities. Once these assumptions are made for a given policy or group of policies, they will not be changed over the life of the policy unless a loss recognition event occurs. Insurance Reserves Reserves are liabilities representing estimates of the amounts that will come due, at some point in the future, to or on behalf of our policyholders. U.S. GAAP, allowing for some degree of managerial judgment, prescribes the methods of establishing reserves. Future policy benefits and claims include reserves for traditional and group life insurance, accident and health insurance and individual and group annuities that provide periodic income payments, which are computed using assumptions of mortality, morbidity, lapse, investment performance and expense. These assumptions are based on our experience and are periodically reviewed against industry standards to ensure actuarial credibility. For long duration insurance contracts, once these assumptions are made for a given policy or group of policies, they will not be changed over the life of the policy. However, significant changes in experience or assumptions may require us to provide for expected future losses on a product by establishing premium deficiency reserves. Premium deficiency reserves may also be established for short duration contracts to provide for expected future losses. Our reserve levels are reviewed throughout the year using internal analysis including, among other things, experience studies, claim development analysis and annual statutory asset adequacy analysis. To the extent experience indicates potential loss recognition, we recognize losses on certain lines of business. The ultimate accuracy of the assumptions on these long tailed insurance products cannot be determined until the obligation of the entire block of business on which the assumptions were made is extinguished. Short term variances of actual results from the assumptions used in the computation of the reserves are reflected in current period net income and can impact quarter to quarter net income. Future policy benefits and claims also include reserves for incurred but unreported health, disability and life insurance claims. We recognize claims costs in the period the service was provided to our policyowners. However, claims costs incurred in a particular period are not known with certainty until after we receive, process and pay the claims. We determine the amount of this liability using actuarial methods based on historical claim payment patterns as well as emerging medical cost trends, where applicable, to determine our estimate of claim liabilities. We also look back to assess how our prior periods estimates developed. To the extent appropriate, changes in such development are recorded as a change to current period claim expense. Historically, the amount of the claim reserve adjustment made in subsequent reporting periods for prior period estimates was within a reasonable range given our normal claim fluctuations. Benefit Plans The reported expense and liability associated with pension and other postretirement benefit plans requires the use of assumptions. Numerous assumptions are made regarding the discount rate, expected long term rate of return on plan assets, turnover, expected compensation increases, health care claim costs, health care cost trends, retirement rates and mortality. The discount rate and the expected return on plan assets have the most significant impact on the level of cost. The assumed discount rate is determined by projecting future benefit payments inherent in the Projected Benefit Obligation and discounting those cash flows using a spot yield curve known as the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve. This curve is constructed from the Treasury curve by adding option adjusted spreads that are drawn from the double A 35 corporate sector of the Salomon Broad Investment Grade Bond Index. The bonds with excessive call exposure are excluded, as are securities with option adjusted spreads that are more than two standard deviations away from the preliminary average. The final spreads are determined using this call protected sample of double A corporate bonds. Based on this methodology for 2007 year end, we set the discount rate at 6.30%. A 0.25% decrease in the discount rate would increase pension benefits Projected Benefit Obligation and the 2008 Net Periodic Pension Cost ("NPPC") by approximately $61.4 million and $9.3 million, respectively. A 0.25% decrease in the discount rate would increase other post retirement benefits Accumulated Postretirement Benefit Obligation and the 2008 Net Periodic Benefit Cost ("NPBC") by approximately $8.3 million and $0.7 million, respectively. A 0.25% increase in the discount rate would result in decreases in benefit obligations and expenses at a level generally commensurate with those noted above. The assumed long term rate of return on plan assets is set at the long term rate expected to be earned based on the long term investment policy of the plans and the various classes of the invested funds. Historical and future expected returns of multiple asset classes were analyzed to develop a risk free real rate of return and risk premiums for each asset class. The overall long term rate for each asset class was developed by combining a long term inflation component, the risk free real rate of return and the associated risk premium. A weighted average rate was developed based on long term returns for each asset class, the plans target asset allocation policy and the tax structure of the trusts. For the 2007 NPPC and 2007 NPBC, an 8.25% and 7.3% weighted average long term rate of return was used, respectively. For the 2008 NPPC and 2008 NPBC, an 8.25% and 7.3% weighted average long term rate of return assumption will be used, respectively. A 0.25% decrease in the assumed long term rate of return would increase 2008 NPPC by approximately $3.9 million and the 2008 NPBC by approximately $1.3 million. A 0.25% increase in this rate would result in a decrease to expense at the same levels. The assumed return on plan assets is based on the fair market value of plan assets as of September 30, 2007. The compensation increase assumption is generally set at a rate consistent with current and expected long term compensation and salary policy, including inflation. Actuarial gains and losses are amortized using a straight line amortization method over the average remaining service period of employees, which is approximately 8 years for pension costs and approximately 13 years for other postretirement benefit costs. Prior service costs are amortized on a weighted average basis over approximately 7 years for both pension and other postretirement benefit costs. Income Taxes We provide for income taxes based on our estimate of the liability for taxes due. Our tax accounting represents managements best estimate of various events and transactions, such as completion of tax audits, which could have an impact on our estimates and effective tax rate in a particular quarter or annual period. Inherent in the provision for income taxes are estimates regarding the deductibility of certain items, the timing of income and expense recognition and the realization of certain tax credits. In the event our estimates of the ultimate deductibility of certain items, the timing of the recognition of income and expense or the realization of certain tax credits differ from prior estimates due to the receipt of new information, we may be required to significantly change the provision for income taxes recorded in the consolidated financial statements. Any such change could significantly affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements in the year these estimates change. In addition, the amount of income taxes paid is subject to audits in various jurisdictions. Tax benefits are recognized for book purposes when the more likely than not threshold is met with regard to the validity of the tax position. Once this threshold is met, for each tax reporting issue, we provide for the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement with the IRS and other income taxing authorities for audits ongoing or not yet commenced. We believe that we have adequate defenses against, or sufficient provisions for, the contested issues, but final resolution of contested issues could take several years while legal remedies are pursued. Consequently, we do not anticipate the ultimate resolution of audits ongoing or not yet commenced to have a material impact on our net income. Transactions Affecting Comparability of Results of Operations Acquisitions We acquired the following businesses, among others, during the past three years: Morley Financial Services, Inc. On August 31, 2007, we acquired Morley Financial Services, Inc. ("Morley Financial Services") from Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company, for $75.0 million in cash, subject to closing adjustments. Morley Financial Services is a stable value asset manager with approximately $14.0 billion in institutional AUM as of August 31, 2007. The operations of Morley Financial Services are reported and consolidated in our Global Asset Management segment. 36 WM Advisors, Inc. On December 31, 2006, we acquired WM Advisors, Inc. and its subsidiaries from Washington Mutual, Inc. for a total cost of $741.1 million in cash at the time of closing. As of December 31, 2006, WM Advisors, Inc. had approximately $28.0 billion in AUM and provided investment advisory services to mutual funds, variable trust funds and asset allocation portfolios to approximately 800,000 shareholder accounts nationwide. The operations of WM Advisors, Inc. are reported and consolidated in our U.S. Asset Accumulation and Global Asset Management segments. Principal Global Services Private Limited. In December 2005, we formed Principal Global Services Private Limited ("PGS"), which began operations in Pune, India, as of August 2006. PGS employees perform services for our U.S. operations including claims data entry, 401(k) processing, IT coding/application development and IT quality assurance. PGS start up costs were reported in our Corporate and Other segment through 2006. Beginning in 2007, expenses are allocated to the segments for which services are performed. Principal Commercial Funding II. On October 24, 2005, Principal Real Estate Investors and U.S. Bank National Association announced that they agreed to create Principal Commercial Funding II, a jointly owned business that competes in the CMBS market. Principal Real Estate Investors is the real estate investment arm of Principal Global Investors. U.S. Bank National Association is the principal banking subsidiary of U.S. Bancorp. The new company is the CMBS platform for both Principal Real Estate Investors and U.S. Bank National Association and focuses on securitizing commercial mortgages originated by both Principal Real Estate Investors and U.S. Bank National Association on their behalf. Principal Commercial Funding II began operations in late 2005 and began contributing collateral to securitizations during the first quarter of 2006. The operations of Principal Commercial Funding II are reported in our Global Asset Management segment using the equity method of accounting. CCB Principal Asset Management Company, Ltd. On September 19, 2005, we entered into a joint venture with China Construction Bank ("CCB") to market mutual funds in the Peoples Republic of China, with a 25% ownership in CCB Principal Asset Management Company, Ltd. The operations of CCB Principal Asset Management Company, Ltd. are reported in our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment using the equity method of accounting. PNB Principal Insurance Advisory Company Pvt. Ltd. On February 21, 2005, Principal Financial Group (Mauritius) Ltd. acquired a 26% stake and management control of PNB Principal Insurance Advisory Company Pvt. Ltd. ("PPIAC"), an insurance brokerage company in India. The operations of PPIAC are reported and consolidated in our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment. Dispositions We entered into disposition agreements or disposed of the following businesses, among others, during the past three years: Principal Dental Services, Inc. Effective July 1, 2006, we sold five dental offices which were substantially all of the assets of Dental Net Group, one component of Principal Dental Services, Inc. The realized gain was reported in our Life and Health segment. ING/Principal Pensions Company Ltd. On May 26, 2005, we announced jointly with our partner, ING, the intent to liquidate the ING/Principal Pensions Company, Ltd. operation in Japan. On December 20, 2005, the liquidation process was completed with a formal liquidation filing to the Japanese corporate registry. The results of ING/Principal Pensions Company Ltd. were reported in our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment. Discontinued Operations. For divestitures that qualify for discontinued operations treatment, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 3, Discontinued Operations." Other SBB Mutual Berhad and SBB Asset Management Sdn Bhd. On February 5, 2007, we invested an additional RM$192.4 million Malaysian ringgits ("RM$") (approximately U.S. $55.1 million) to retain our 40% ownership interest in CIMB Principal, our joint venture company in Malaysia, as a result of its decision to purchase the mutual fund and asset management companies of the former Southern Bank Bhd ("SBB") Mutual Berhad and SBB Asset Management Sdn Bhd. Senior Note Issuance. During fourth quarter 2006, we issued $600.0 million of senior notes from our shelf registration, which became effective on June 30, 2004. The notes bear interest at a rate of 6.05% per year. Interest on the notes is payable semi annually on April 15 and October 15, and began on April 15, 2007. The notes will mature on October 15, 2036. A portion of the proceeds was used to fund the acquisition of WM Advisors, Inc., with the remaining proceeds being used for general corporate purposes. Principal Reinsurance Company of Vermont. In November 2006, Principal Life established a wholly owned reinsurance subsidiary, Principal Reinsurance Company of Vermont ("PVT"), which reinsures a portion of our universal life 37 "secondary" or "no lapse" guarantee provisions through an intercompany reinsurance agreement with Principal Life. Effective June 30, 2007, we amended our reinsurance agreement with PVT to include in force and future policy issuances of a current term insurance product. The reinsurance agreement, which was accompanied with a third party letter of credit issued to PVT and guaranteed by PFG, allowed us to redeploy capital for other general corporate purposes. Fluctuations in Foreign Currency to U.S. Dollar Exchange Rates Fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates for countries in which we have operations can affect reported financial results. In years when foreign currencies weaken against the U.S. dollar, translating foreign currencies into U.S. dollars results in fewer U.S. dollars to be reported. When foreign currencies strengthen, translating foreign currencies into U.S. dollars results in more U.S. dollars to be reported. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations create variances in our financial statement line items but have not had a material impact on our consolidated income from continuing operations. Our consolidated income from continuing operations was positively impacted $5.9 million, $5.4 million and $7.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, as a result of fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates for our foreign operations. For a discussion of our approaches to foreign currency exchange rate risk, see Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk." Stock Based Compensation Plans For information related to our Stock Based Compensation Plans, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 20, Stock Based Compensation Plans." Defined Benefit Pension and 401(k) Expense Effective January 1, 2006, we made changes to our retirement program, including the Principal Select Savings Plan ("401(k)") and the Principal Pension Plan ("Pension Plan") and the corresponding nonqualified plans. The qualified and nonqualified Pension Plans changes include a reduction to the traditional and cash balance formulas, a change in the early retirement factors and the removal of the cost of living adjustments for traditional benefits earned after January 1, 2006. The qualified and nonqualified 401(k) Plans company match increased from 50% of a contribution rate up to a maximum 3% of the participants compensation to 75% of a contribution rate up to a maximum of 6% of the participants compensation. Employees who were 47 years old, with a minimum of ten years of service as of December 31, 2005, were given the choice to remain under the current pension and 401(k) arrangement or move to the new plan design. The Pension Plan changes reduced the Pension Plan expense in 2006, while the 401(k) changes increased the 401(k) expense. The 2007 annual pension benefit expense for substantially all of our employees and certain agents was $24.0 million pre tax, which was a $10.6 million decrease from the 2006 pre tax pension expense of $34.6 million. This decrease is primarily due to the increase in discount rate. The discount rate used to develop the 2007 expense was raised to 6.15%, up from the 5.75% discount rate used to develop the 2006 expense. The expected long term return on plan assets assumption remained at 8.25%. The 2008 annual pension benefit expense for substantially all of our employees and certain agents is expected to be $12.3 million pre tax, which is an $11.7 million decrease from the 2007 pre tax pension expense of $24.0 million. This decrease is due to the increase in discount rate and greater than estimated returns on plan assets. The discount rate used to develop the 2008 expense was raised to 6.3%, up from the 6.15% discount rate used to develop the 2007 expense. The long term asset assumption remained at 8.25%. Recent Accounting Changes For recent accounting changes, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1, Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies." 38  Results of Operations The following table presents summary consolidated financial information for the years indicated: Increase (decrease) For the year ended December 31, 2007 vs. 2006 2006 vs. 2005 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) Revenues: Premiums and other considerations $ 4,634.1 $ 4,305.3 $ 3,975.0 $ 328.8 $ 330.3 Fees and other revenues 2,634.7 1,902.5 1,717.8 732.2 184.7 Net investment income 3,966.5 3,620.6 3,358.0 345.9 262.6 Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses) (328.8 ) 44.7 (11.2 ) (373.5 ) 55.9 Total revenues 10,906.5 9,873.1 9,039.6 1,033.4 833.5 Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses 6,435.3 5,692.4 5,282.9 742.9 409.5 Dividends to policyholders 293.8 290.7 293.0 3.1 (2.3 ) Operating expenses 3,129.2 2,558.7 2,342.1 570.5 216.6 Total expenses 9,858.3 8,541.8 7,918.0 1,316.5 623.8 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 1,048.2 1,331.3 1,121.6 (283.1 ) 209.7 Income taxes 208.1 295.9 231.4 (87.8 ) 64.5 Income from continuing operations, net of related income taxes 840.1 1,035.4 890.2 (195.3 ) 145.2 Income from discontinued operations, net of related income taxes 20.2 28.9 28.8 (8.7 ) 0.1 Net income 860.3 1,064.3 919.0 (204.0 ) 145.3 Preferred stock dividends 33.0 33.0 17.7 15.3 Net income available to common stockholders $ 827.3 $ 1,031.3 $ 901.3 $ (204.0 ) $ 130.0 Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 Net Income Available to Common Stockholders Net income available to common stockholders for the year ended December 31, 2007, includes $184.6 million of after tax realized capital losses related to impairments of fixed maturity and equity securities compared to after tax realized capital losses of $6.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. Excluding the impacts of impairments and increased realized/unrealized capital losses associated with derivative activity, net income available to common stockholders increased $28.7 million, as increased earnings in the U.S. Asset Accumulation, International Asset Management and Accumulation and Global Asset Management segments were partially offset by decreases within the Life and Health and Corporate and Other segments. See segment discussion for more details. Total Revenues Premiums increased $248.5 million for the U.S. Asset Accumulation segment primarily due to an increase in single premium group annuity sales within our full service payout business and an increase in our individual payout annuities business primarily relating to increased sales from certain distribution channels. In addition, Life and Health Insurance segment premiums increased $72.9 million primarily due to growth in our specialty benefits business. Fees increased $590.7 million for our U.S. Asset Accumulation segment due to higher management and distribution fees for Principal Funds stemming from an increase in average account values resulting from our December 31, 2006, acquisition of WM Advisors, Inc. In addition, fees from our full service accumulation business increased due to a comprehensive assumption study that was completed during the third quarter 2007 which resulted in the unlocking of our unearned revenue and DPAC assumptions and led to the recognition of previously deferred revenue. Net investment income increased due to a $3,376.8 million increase in average invested assets and cash and an increase in the annualized investment yield. The yield on average invested assets and cash was 6.2% for the year ended December 31, 2007, compared to 6.0% for the year ended December 31, 2006. Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses) can be volatile due to mark to market adjustments of certain invested assets, our decision to sell appreciated invested assets and other than temporary impairments of invested assets. Net realized/unrealized capital losses increased primarily due to higher impairments, net of recoveries, on fixed maturity securities as well as higher mark to market losses on derivative activities. For additional information, see "Investments Investment Results." 39 Total Expenses Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $416.4 million for the U.S. Asset Accumulation segment, primarily due to an increase in reserves related to higher sales of individual payout annuities and higher cost of interest credited related to a growing block in our individual annuities business. In addition, in full service payout, benefit reserves and expense increased primarily due to strong single premium group annuity sales. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses also increased $201.1 million for the Life and Health Insurance segment, primarily due to growth in our specialty benefits business and due to higher medical costs and unfavorable prior year claim development in our health insurance business. U.S. Asset Accumulation operating expenses increased $461.4 million, primarily due to an increase within Principal Funds relating to higher costs associated with an increase in staff and infrastructure needed to support the growth in the business and the impact from the WM Advisors, Inc. acquisition. In addition, a $108.6 million increase from the Global Asset Management segment, primarily in our fee mandate business, was due to continued growth in staff and staff related costs as a result of continued growth in AUM and the acquisitions of Edge Asset Management and Morley Financial Services. Income Taxes The effective income tax rates were 20% and 22% for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2007 was lower than the U.S. corporate income tax rate of 35% primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received and interest exclusion from taxable income. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2006 was lower than the U.S. corporate income tax rate of 35% primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received, interest exclusion from taxable income and tax refinements in Mexico and Chile. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 Net Income Available to Common Stockholders Net income available to common stockholders for our U.S. Asset Accumulation segment increased $69.3 million as solid investment performance and strong net cash flows drove a similar increase in account values within our full service accumulation, individual annuities and Principal Funds businesses. In addition, net income available to common stockholders for our Global Asset Management segment increased $27.1 million as solid investment performance and strong net cash flows increased AUM within our fee mandate business. The Corporate and Other segments net income available to common stockholders increased $18.6 million primarily due to a gain on the sale of stock of an equity method investment, gains on sales of invested assets largely due to real estate properties and a prior year other than temporary impairment of an equity partnership interest. These increases are offset in part by a change in income tax reserves and associated interest established for IRS tax matters and higher preferred stock dividends as a result of issuing preferred stock in June 2005. Total Revenues Premiums increased $331.6 million for the Life and Health segment primarily due to growth in our health insurance and specialty benefits businesses. Fees increased $155.7 million for our U.S. Asset Accumulation segment due to higher account values for our full service accumulation and Principal Funds businesses. Net investment income increased due to a $2,333.2 million increase in average invested assets and cash and an increase in the annualized investment yield. The yield on average invested assets and cash was 6.0% for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 5.8% for the year ended December 31, 2005. Net realized/unrealized capital gains (losses) can be volatile due to mark to market adjustments of certain invested assets, our decision to sell appreciated invested assets and other than temporary impairments of invested assets. Net realized/unrealized capital gains increased primarily due to a $44.3 million gain due to the sale of stock of an equity method investment in 2006. For additional information, see "Investments Investment Results." Total Expenses Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $290.1 million for the Life and Health Insurance segment, primarily due to growth in the our health insurance and specialty benefits businesses. In addition, benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $130.9 million for the U.S. Asset Accumulation segment, primarily due to an increase in reserves related to higher sales of individual payout annuities and higher cost of interest credited related to a growing block in our individual annuities and investment only businesses. 40 U.S. Asset Accumulation operating expenses increased $103.7 million, primarily due to growth in our full service accumulation and individual annuities businesses. The increase in operating expenses was also due to a $39.7 million increase from the Life and Health Insurance segment primarily resulting from growth in our health insurance and specialty benefits businesses partially offset by lower DPAC amortization from the individual life business. In addition, the increase reflected a $33.4 million increase from the Global Asset Management segment, primarily due to continued growth in AUM and an expansion of our U.S. institutional sales function within our fee mandate business and the transition to our joint venture with U.S. Bank. Income Taxes The effective income tax rates were 22% and 21% for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2006 was lower than the U.S. corporate income tax rate of 35% primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received, interest exclusion from taxable income and tax refinements in Mexico and Chile. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2005 was lower than the U.S. corporate income tax rate of 35% primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received, tax credits on our investment in a synthetic fuel production facility and interest exclusion from taxable income. Results of Operations by Segment For results of operations by segment see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 19, Segment Information." U.S. Asset Accumulation Segment U.S. Asset Accumulation Segment Summary Financial Data Account values are a key indicator of earnings growth for the segment, as account values are the asset base by which the segment generates its fee and spread based profits. Net cash flow and market performance are the two main drivers of account value growth. Net cash flow reflects the segments ability to attract and retain client deposits. Market performance reflects not only the equity market performance, but also the investment performance of fixed income investments supporting our spread business. The percentage growth in earnings of the segment should generally track the percentage growth in account values. This trend may vary due to changes in business and or product mix. The following table presents the U.S. Asset Accumulation account value rollforward for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (in billions) Account values, beginning of period $ 163.3 $ 120.3 $ 108.6 Net cash flow 6.7 6.9 4.9 Credited investment performance 10.3 13.0 7.7 Other 0.5 23.1 (1) (0.9 ) Account values, end of period $ 180.8 $ 163.3 $ 120.3 (1)Includes $22.5 billion relating to the December 31, 2006, acquisition of WM Advisors, Inc. 41 The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the U.S. Asset Accumulation segment for the years indicated: Increase (decrease) For the year ended December 31, 2007 vs. 2006 2006 vs. 2005 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) Operating revenues: Premiums and other considerations $ 710.8 $ 462.3 $ 455.2 $ 248.5 $ 7.1 Fees and other revenues 1,691.4 1,105.9 960.7 585.5 145.2 Net investment income 2,748.0 2,538.8 2,371.7 209.2 167.1 Total operating revenues 5,150.2 4,107.0 3,787.6 1,043.2 319.4 Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses, including dividends to policyholders 2,812.6 2,392.1 2,265.3 420.5 126.8 Operating expenses 1,510.1 1,040.8 935.7 469.3 105.1 Total expenses 4,322.7 3,432.9 3,201.0 889.8 231.9 Operating earnings before income taxes 827.5 674.1 586.6 153.4 87.5 Income taxes 171.7 131.5 122.2 40.2 9.3 Operating earnings $ 655.8 $ 542.6 $ 464.4 $ 113.2 $ 78.2 Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 Operating Earnings Full service accumulation operating earnings increased $68.1 million primarily due to an increase in account values stemming from solid investment performance and strong net cash flows. In addition, the 2007 results benefited from the third quarter 2007 completion of a comprehensive assumption study, which resulted in the unlocking of our unearned revenue and DPAC assumptions and led to the recognition of an operating earnings benefit of $30.1 million after tax. Principal Funds operating earnings increased $23.4 million primarily due to higher net commission income and management fees stemming from an increase in sales and an increase in average account values. Operating Revenues Premiums in our full service payout business increased $140.0 million primarily due to an increase in single premium group annuity sales. The single premium group annuity product, which is typically used to fund defined benefit plan terminations, can generate large premiums from very few customers and therefore tends to vary from period to period. Premiums in our individual payout annuities business increased $108.5 million primarily due to increased sales from certain distribution channels. Fees in our Principal Funds business increased $346.0 primarily due to higher management and distribution fees stemming from an increase in average account values resulting from our December 31, 2006, acquisition of WM Advisors, Inc. Fees in our full service accumulation business increased $208.6 million primarily due to a comprehensive assumption study that was completed during the third quarter 2007, which resulted in the unlocking of our unearned revenue and DPAC assumptions and led to the recognition of previously deferred revenue. Higher fees generated from the increase in account values also contributed to the increase. Net investment income increased primarily due to a $3,097.4 million increase in average invested assets and cash. Average annualized yield on invested assets and cash, was 5.8% for both the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. Total Expenses Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $195.9 million within our individual annuities business primarily due to an increase in reserves related to higher sales of individual payout annuities. Also, as a result of a growing block of individual annuities, cost of interest credited on fixed deferred annuities increased. In addition, in full service payout, benefit reserves and expense increased $141.9 million, primarily due to strong single premium group annuity sales. Furthermore, our investment only business increased $81.9 million primarily due to an increase in cost of interest credited on this block of business resulting from an increase in account values and higher crediting rates. Operating expenses increased $305.5 million within Principal Funds primarily due to higher costs associated with an increase in staff and infrastructure needed to support the growth in the business and the impact from the WM Advisors, Inc. acquisition. Operating expenses in our full service accumulation business increased $120.9 million primarily due to a comprehensive assumption study that was completed during the third quarter, which resulted in the unlocking of our unearned revenue and DPAC assumptions and led to the recognition of previously deferred expenses. Also 42 contributing to the increase was growth in the business, which drove increases in staff related costs and management fees paid. Income Taxes The effective income tax rates for the segment were 21% and 20% for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The effective income tax rates were lower than the U.S. corporate income tax rate of 35%, primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received and interest exclusion from taxable income. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 Operating Earnings Full service accumulation and individual annuities operating earnings increased $43.9 million and $12.7 million, respectively, as solid investment performance and strong net cash flows drove a similar increase in account values for each of these businesses. In addition, earnings within Principal Funds increased $9.1 million primarily due to growth in account values. Also contributing to the increase was higher net commission income stemming from an increase in sales within Principal Funds. Operating Revenues Premiums in our individual payout annuities business increased $44.9 million primarily due to increased sales from certain distribution channels. Partially offsetting this increase was a $37.8 million decrease in premium from reduced single premium group annuity sales within our full service payout business. Fees in our full service accumulation and Principal Funds businesses increased $98.9 million and $29.7 million, respectively, due to higher account values. Net investment income increased primarily due to an increase in the average annualized yield on invested assets and cash, which was 5.8% for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 5.6% for the year ended December 31, 2005. In addition, a $1,962.4 million increase in average invested assets and cash contributed to the increase in net investment income. Total Expenses Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $82.6 million within our individual annuities business primarily due to an increase in reserves related to higher sales of individual payout annuities. In addition, as a result of a growing block of individual annuities, cost of interest credited on fixed deferred annuities increased. Furthermore, the investment only business increased $68.9 million as a result of higher cost of interest credited associated with the growing block of business and increased crediting rates. These increases were partially offset by a $35.2 million decrease in the full service payout business primarily resulting from a decline in sales of the single premium group annuity product. Operating expenses increased $66.1 million in our full service accumulation business primarily due to growth in the business, which drove increases in staff related costs, management fees paid and amortization of DPAC. In addition, operating expenses in our individual annuities business increased $15.4 million primarily due to strong growth in this block of business. Furthermore, operating expenses in our Principal Funds business increased $14.4 million primarily due to an increase in management and distribution fees stemming from an increase in average account values. Income Taxes The effective income tax rates for the segment were 20% and 21% for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The effective income tax rates were lower than the U.S. corporate income tax rate of 35%, primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received and interest exclusion from taxable income. Global Asset Management Segment Global Asset Management Trends Asset management services have been among the most profitable and rapidly growing sectors of the financial services industry, at both the retail and institutional level. Current trends indicate that both retail and institutional investors embrace specialization. We seek to take advantage of these trends by providing expertise in specialty and niche areas, which command premium fees. We have experienced very good success in winning institutional asset management mandates and expect to see continued growth in this area. Our third party AUM increased $28.2 billion during 2007. 43 The following table provides a summary of Global Asset Managements affiliated and third party AUM as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005: Principal Global Investors As of Affiliated AUM Third party AUM Total AUM (in billions) December 31, 2007 $ 148.7 $ 87.3 $ 236.0 December 31, 2006 132.3 59.1 191.4 December 31, 2005 103.4 41.1 144.5 Global Asset Management Segment Summary Financial Data AUM is a key indicator of earnings growth for our Global Asset Management segment, as AUM is the base by which we generate fee mandate and spread and securitization revenues. Net cash flow and market performance are the two main drivers of AUM growth. Net cash flow reflects our ability to attract and retain client deposits. Market performance reflects equity, fixed income and real estate market performance. The percentage growth in earnings of the segment will generally track with the percentage growth in AUM. This trend may vary due to changes in business and or product mix. The following table presents AUM rollforward for assets managed by Global Asset Management for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (in billions) AUM, beginning of period $ 191.4 $ 144.5 $ 126.4 Net cash flow 15.8 12.8 9.1 Investment performance 12.5 13.7 7.9 Operations acquired(1) 13.7 22.6 3.9 Other 2.6 (2.2 ) (2.8 ) AUM, end of period $ 236.0 $ 191.4 $ 144.5 (1)Includes acquisition of Morley Financial Services in 2007; acquisition of WM Advisors, Inc. in 2006; and acquisition of Columbus Circle Investors in 2005. The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the Global Asset Management segment for the years indicated: Increase (decrease) For the year ended December 31, 2007 vs. 2006 2006 vs. 2005 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) Operating revenues: Fees and other revenues $ 567.8 $ 434.9 $ 385.9 $ 132.9 $ 49.0 Net investment income 35.2 53.2 31.4 (18.0 ) 21.8 Total operating revenues 603.0 488.1 417.3 114.9 70.8 Expenses: Total expenses 435.8 331.1 303.3 104.7 27.8 Operating earnings before income taxes 167.2 157.0 114.0 10.2 43.0 Income taxes 58.7 54.5 40.0 4.2 14.5 Operating earnings $ 108.5 $ 102.5 $ 74.0 $ 6.0 $ 28.5 Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 Operating Earnings Fee mandate operating earnings increased $28.9 million primarily due to strong net cash flows that drove an increase in AUM. Spread and securitization business operating earnings decreased $22.9 million due to unfavorable CMBS market conditions in the latter part of 2007, as well as the transition of our wholly owned CMBS securitization operation to a joint venture with U.S. Bank. 44  Operating Revenues Fees in our fee mandate business increased $142.6 million primarily due to continued growth in management fees across all lines of business, as a result of growth in AUM, in addition to the acquisition of Edge Asset Management and Morley Financial Services. Net investment income decreased primarily in our spread and securitization business due to unfavorable CMBS market conditions in the latter part of 2007. Total Expenses Total expenses increased $104.7 million primarily in our fee mandate business due to growth in staff and staff related costs as a result of continued growth in AUM and the acquisitions of Edge Asset Management and Morley Financial Services. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate for the segment was 35% for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 Operating Earnings Fee mandate business operating earnings increased $28.1 million as solid investment performance and strong net cash flows increased AUM. Operating Revenues Fees in our fee mandate business increased $48.4 million primarily due to continued growth in management and transaction fees across all lines of business as a result of growth in AUM. Net investment income in our spread and securitization business increased $12.7 million due to income from our CMBS securitization joint venture coupled with an increase in the interest margin. Net investment income in our fee mandate business increased $9.1 million due to earnings on cash and other investments. Total Expenses Fee mandate business operating expenses increased $14.7 million due to continued growth in AUM, an expansion of our U.S. institutional sales function and growth in staff and staff related costs in our international operations. Spread and securitization business operating expenses increased $13.1 million due to the transition to our CMBS securitization joint venture. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate for the segment was 35% for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. International Asset Management and Accumulation Segment International Asset Management and Accumulation Trends Our international asset management and accumulation businesses focus on countries with favorable demographics and growing long term savings and defined contribution markets. With variations depending upon the specific country, we have targeted these markets for sales of retirement and related products and services, including defined contribution pension plans, annuities and mutual funds to businesses and individuals. In some of our international markets, we complement our sales of these products with institutional asset management and life insurance accumulation products. We have pursued our international strategy through a combination of start ups, acquisitions and joint ventures, which require infusions of capital consistent with our strategy of long term growth and profitability. International Asset Management and Accumulation Segment Summary Financial Data AUM is a key indicator of earnings growth for the segment, as AUM is the base by which we can generate profits. Net cash flow and market performance are the two main drivers of AUM growth. Net cash flow reflects our ability to attract and retain client deposits. Market performance reflects the investment returns on our underlying AUM. The percentage growth in the earnings of our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment will generally track with the percentage growth in AUM. This trend may vary due to changes in business and or product mix. Our financial results are also impacted by fluctuations of the foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates for the countries in which we have business. 45 The following table presents the International Asset Management and Accumulation AUM rollforward for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (in billions) AUM, beginning of period $ 19.1 $ 15.4 $ 10.2 Net cash flow 2.1 2.0 1.3 Investment performance 3.0 2.0 1.3 Effect of exchange rates 2.3 0.1 1.0 Other(1) 2.2 (0.4 ) 1.6 AUM, end of period $ 28.7 $ 19.1 $ 15.4 (1)Other increases to AUM include $1.8 billion from an additional 10% ownership in Malaysia in 2005 and $2.2 billion from our SBB acquisition in Malaysia in 2007. The following table presents certain summary financial data of the International Asset Management and Accumulation segment for the years indicated: Increase (decrease) For the year ended December 31, 2007 vs. 2006 2006 vs. 2005 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) Operating revenues: Premiums and other considerations $ 246.4 $ 239.1 $ 247.6 $ 7.3 $ (8.5 ) Fees and other revenues 136.4 114.0 109.2 22.4 4.8 Net investment income 413.5 252.3 247.7 161.2 4.6 Total operating revenues 796.3 605.4 604.5 190.9 0.9 Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses 526.7 399.1 409.3 127.6 (10.2 ) Operating expenses 141.4 144.5 128.7 (3.1 ) 15.8 Total expenses 668.1 543.6 538.0 124.5 5.6 Operating earnings before income taxes 128.2 61.8 66.5 66.4 (4.7 ) Income taxes (benefits) 17.5 (10.0 ) (4.5 ) 27.5 (5.5 ) Operating earnings $ 110.7 $ 71.8 $ 71.0 $ 38.9 $ 0.8 Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 Operating Earnings Operating earnings increased $19.5 million primarily due to higher earnings from our equity method investments in Brazil and China and the strengthening of the Brazilian real versus the U.S. dollar. Operating earnings in Chile and Hong Kong increased primarily due to higher annualized investment yields in Chile and growth in AUM in Hong Kong and Chile. Operating Revenues Premiums in Chile increased $31.0 million primarily due to higher sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies. This increase was partially offset by a $23.7 million decrease in Mexico resulting from lower sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies due to our decision to not sell these annuities in Mexico in 2007 due to unfavorable market conditions. Fees and other revenues in our Hong Kong, Chile and India operations increased primarily due to growth in AUM in these countries. In addition, fees and other revenues increased in Hong Kong due to performance based fees. Net investment income increased primarily due to a higher annualized yield on average invested assets and cash, excluding our equity method investments, and to a lesser extent due to a $418.0 million increase in average invested assets and cash, excluding our equity method investments, coupled with higher earnings from our equity method subsidiaries in Brazil, China and Malaysia. The annualized yield on average invested assets and cash, excluding our equity method investments, was 10.3% for the year ended December 31, 2007, compared to 7.1% for the year ended December 31, 2006. 46 Total Expenses Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $152.1 million in Chile, primarily due to higher interest crediting rates in 2007 and increased sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies. Operating expenses within our Mexican operations decreased $20.9 million primarily due to the unlocking of assumptions surrounding PVFP related to newly enacted legislation of the mandatory privatized social security system. This decrease was partially offset by higher operating expenses in our other international operations due to continued growth. Income Taxes The effective income tax rates for the segment were 14% and 16% for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2007, was lower than the U.S. corporate income tax rate of 35%, primarily due to taxes on our share of earnings generated from our equity method investments that are included in net investment income and the lower tax rates of foreign jurisdictions. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2006, was lower than the U.S. corporate income tax rate of 35%, primarily due to tax refinements in Mexico and Chile and taxes on our share of earnings generated from our equity method investments that are included in net investment income. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 Operating Earnings Operating earnings increased $8.2 million due to the strengthening of the Brazilian real versus the U.S. dollar and higher earnings from our Brazilian equity method investment driven by growth in AUM. Additionally, operating earnings increased due to increased fees in India, Chile and Hong Kong from growth in AUM. Partially offsetting these increases were operating expense increases due to continued growth in our international operations and decreased earnings due to lower annualized investment yields in Chile. Operating Revenues Premiums in Mexico decreased $12.6 million due to decreased sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies as a result of pricing changes in 2006. This decrease was partially offset by a $4.1 million increase in Chile resulting from the strengthening of the peso versus the U.S. dollar, which more than offset decreased sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies compared to 2005. Fees and other revenues in our India, Hong Kong and Chile operations increased due to growth in AUM in these countries. In addition, fees and other revenues in Chile increased due to growth in the universal life insurance business. Partially offsetting these increases was a $5.7 million decrease in Mexico, primarily due to a refinement of accrued fee income in 2005. Net investment income increased primarily due to a $367.8 million increase in average invested assets and cash, excluding our equity method investments; the strengthening of the Chilean peso and Brazilian real versus the U.S. dollar; and higher earnings from our Brazilian equity method investment. Partially offsetting the increase was a decrease in the annualized yield on average invested assets and cash, excluding our equity method investments, which was 7.1% for the year ended December 31, 2006, compared to 8.5% for the year ended December 31, 2005. Total Expenses Benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased in our Chile and Mexico operations primarily due to lower interest crediting rates in 2006 and decreased sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies in Mexico and Chile, which was partially offset by the strengthening of the Chilean peso versus U.S. dollar. Operating expenses increased due to continued growth in our international operations. The operating expenses for our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment grew at approximately half the growth rate of our segments AUM during the period. Income Taxes The effective income tax rates for the segment were 16% and 7% for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2006, was lower than the U.S. corporate income tax rate of 35%, primarily due to tax refinements in Mexico and Chile and taxes on our share of earnings generated from our equity method investments that are included in net investment income. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2005, was lower than the U.S. corporate income tax rate of 35%, primarily due to a tax benefit received as a result of the liquidation of our Japan joint venture, taxes on our share of earnings generated from our equity method investments that are included in net investment income and the lower tax rates of foreign jurisdictions. 47 Life and Health Insurance Segment Individual Life Insurance Trends Our life insurance premiums are influenced by both economic and industry trends. In addition, we have experienced increased sales of universal and variable universal life insurance as we continue to shift our marketing emphasis to universal life insurance products from traditional life insurance products. Due to this shift in marketing emphasis, premiums related to our traditional life insurance products have declined, while fee revenues from our universal and variable universal life insurance products have grown. The following table provides a summary of our individual universal and variable universal life insurance fee revenues and our individual traditional life insurance premiums for the years indicated: Universal and variable universal life insurance Traditional life insurance For the year ended Fee revenues Premiums (in millions) December 31, 2007 $ 282.6 $ 611.7 December 31, 2006 225.3 624.4 December 31, 2005 212.6 645.2 The following table provides a summary of our individual life insurance policyholder liabilities for the years indicated: Traditional life insurance Universal and variable universal life insurance As of Policyholder liabilities Policyholder liabilities(1) (in millions) December 31, 2007 $ 4,544.2 $ 5,910.9 December 31, 2006 3,948.6 5,921.5 December 31, 2005 3,493.8 5,955.4 (1)Includes separate account liabilities for policies with variable investment options. Health Insurance Trends In 2006, we experienced modest growth in group medical premium and fees and group medical members due to more competitive pricing and market focus. In mid 2006, we implemented rate increases to improve margins. As a result, membership started to decline during the fourth quarter of 2006 and continued in 2007. We expect this trend to continue. Our fee for service business has also been impacted by our competitive positioning. We have experienced membership declines in this business for the past two years and we expect the declines to continue. Effective September 1, 2007, we made the Aetna Signature Administrators network available to new and renewal fee for service customers. This agreement helped us retain members toward the latter part of 2007. Our health insurance premium and fees were as follows for the years indicated: Premium and fees For the year ended Group medical insurance Fee for service (in millions) December 31, 2007 $ 1,808.7 $ 167.3 December 31, 2006 1,861.4 172.5 December 31, 2005 1,676.5 176.6 Our covered medical members were as follows for the years indicated: Covered medical members As of Group medical insurance Fee for service (in thousands) December 31, 2007 566.1 669.2 December 31, 2006 642.5 758.0 December 31, 2005 620.1 861.5 48 Specialty Benefits Insurance Trends Premium and fee growth for our specialty benefits insurance business is being driven by solid sales and retention. This has been a result of growing, and more focused distribution, supporting these product lines, increasing emphasis on marketing products to individuals at employer worksites ("voluntary/worksite") and the introduction of new products. The following table provides a summary of our specialty benefits insurance premium and fees for the years indicated: Premium and fees For the year ended Group dental and vision insurance Group life insurance Group disability insurance Individual disability insurance (in millions) December 31, 2007 $ 541.0 $ 344.2 $ 304.6 $ 160.0 December 31, 2006 496.3 310.4 254.9 141.6 December 31, 2005 434.5 259.9 200.3 130.8 Life and Health Insurance Segment Summary Financial Data There are several key indicators for earnings growth in our Life and Health insurance business. The ability of our distribution channels to generate new sales and retain existing business drives growth in our block of business, premium revenue and fee revenues. Our earnings growth also depends on our ability to price our products at a level that enables us to earn a margin over the cost of providing benefits and the expense of acquiring and administering those products. Factors impacting pricing decisions include competitive conditions, persistency, our ability to assess and manage trends in mortality and morbidity experience and our ability to manage operating expenses. The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the Life and Health Insurance segment for the years indicated: Increase (decrease) For the year ended December 31, 2007 vs. 2006 2006 vs. 2005 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) Operating revenues: Premiums and other considerations $ 3,671.6 $ 3,598.7 $ 3,267.1 $ 72.9 $ 331.6 Fees and other revenues 495.4 444.2 444.3 51.2 (0.1 ) Net investment income 690.1 693.3 676.1 (3.2 ) 17.2 Total operating revenues 4,857.1 4,736.2 4,387.5 120.9 348.7 Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses 3,110.2 2,910.3 2,620.2 199.9 290.1 Dividends to policyholders 290.1 290.3 288.5 (0.2 ) 1.8 Operating expenses 1,129.5 1,110.8 1,066.3 18.7 44.5 Total expenses 4,529.8 4,311.4 3,975.0 218.4 336.4 Operating earnings before income taxes 327.3 424.8 412.5 (97.5 ) 12.3 Income taxes 106.2 142.3 138.1 (36.1 ) 4.2 Operating earnings $ 221.1 $ 282.5 $ 274.4 $ (61.4 ) $ 8.1 49  Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 Operating Earnings Health insurance operating earnings decreased $47.7 million due to increases in the cost of medical care, unfavorable prior year claim developments and an overall decline in covered members. These increases in cost were partially offset by increases in premium per member and lower operating expense ratios in our health insurance business. Individual life insurance operating earnings decreased $18.8 million, due to favorable DPAC adjustments in 2006 compared to unfavorable DPAC adjustments in 2007, coupled with a decrease in investment income from a lower asset base related to capital reductions, which more than offset growth in the universal life and variable universal life businesses. Specialty benefits insurance operating earnings increased $5.1 million, as growth in premiums and improvement in expense ratios were partially offset by higher loss ratios. Operating Revenues Specialty benefits insurance premiums increased $149.0 million primarily due to growth in the business resulting from solid sales and retention in all product lines. Health insurance premiums decreased $52.7 million, as a reduction in covered members was partially offset by an increase in premium per member. Furthermore, individual life insurance premiums decreased $23.4 million due to the expected continued decline from the decreasing block of traditional life insurance business. Individual life insurance fees and other revenues increased $59.7 million due to growth in the universal life and variable universal life lines of business. This increase in fees more than offset the decline in individual life insurance premiums. Total Expenses Specialty benefits insurance benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $132.4 million primarily due to growth in the business. Health insurance benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $51.2 million, as higher claims costs per member and unfavorable prior year claim development were partially offset by a decrease in covered members. Individual life insurance operating expenses increased $40.1 million primarily due to an increase in DPAC amortization, which was largely the result of unfavorable unlocking relative to 2006 and higher amortization in 2007 due to growth in the business and higher lapses early in the year. Specialty benefits insurance operating expenses increased $14.8 million due to continued growth in the business. Health insurance operating expenses decreased $36.2 million primarily due to staff and other reductions associated with the decline in insured medical and fee for service medical covered members. Income Taxes The effective income tax rates for the segment were 32% and 33% for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The effective income tax rates were lower than the U.S. corporate income tax rate of 35% as a result of interest exclusion from taxable income and income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 Operating Earnings Specialty benefits insurance operating earnings increased $14.2 million due to reserve refinements in the long term disability line, favorable claims experience in the dental/vision product line and growth in all product lines. Health insurance operating earnings increased $1.5 million due to positive reserve refinements partially offset by higher expense ratios in our fee for service business. Offsetting the increases was a $7.6 million decline of operating earnings within the individual life insurance business, primarily due to more favorable DPAC unlocking in 2005 and changes in claims experience in 2006. Operating Revenues Health insurance premiums increased $185.8 million, primarily from increased covered medical members and higher premium per member. Specialty benefits insurance premiums increased $180.4 million primarily due to strong sales and stable retention. Total Expenses Health insurance benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $155.1 million primarily due to higher claim costs per member and growth, partially offset by reserve refinements. Despite generally lower loss ratios, specialty 50 benefits insurance benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $115.7 million, primarily due to growth in the business. Specialty benefits insurance and health insurance operating expenses increased $46.1 million and $25.5 million, respectively, due to growth in the businesses. Partially offsetting these increases was a $27.1 million decrease in the individual life insurance operating expenses primarily due to lower sales and changes in claims experience in 2006. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate for the segment was 33% for the each of the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005. The effective income tax rates were lower than the U.S. corporate income tax rate of 35% primarily due to interest exclusion from taxable income. Corporate and Other Segment Corporate and Other Segment Summary Financial Data The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the Corporate and Other segment for the years indicated: Increase (decrease) For the year ended December 31, 2007 vs. 2006 2006 vs. 2005 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) Operating revenues: Total operating revenues $ (156.8 ) $ (110.9 ) $ (130.2 ) $ (45.9 ) $ 19.3 Expenses: Total expenses (120.8 ) (94.9 ) (78.0 ) (25.9 ) (16.9 ) Operating loss before income taxes and preferred stock dividends (36.0 ) (16.0 ) (52.2 ) (20.0 ) 36.2 Income tax benefits (31.3 ) (21.7 ) (48.5 ) (9.6 ) 26.8 Preferred stock dividends 33.0 33.0 17.7 15.3 Operating loss $ (37.7 ) $ (27.3 ) $ (21.4 ) $ (10.4 ) $ (5.9 ) Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 Operating Loss Operating loss increased primarily due to higher interest expense, largely related to the issuance of corporate debt in the fourth quarter of 2006, partially offset by higher annualized investment yields driven by the joint venture real estate portfolio. Operating Revenues Operating revenues decreased primarily due to an increase in inter segment eliminations included in this segment, which was offset by a corresponding change in total expenses. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in average annualized investment yields driven by the joint venture real estate portfolio. Total Expenses Total expenses decreased primarily due to an increase in inter segment eliminations included in this segment, which was offset by a corresponding change in operating revenues. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in interest expense on corporate debt and interest expense related to federal income tax activities. Income Taxes Income tax benefits increased primarily due to an increase in operating loss before income taxes. Year Ended December 31, 2006 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2005 Operating Loss Operating loss increased primarily due to a full year of preferred stock dividend payments in 2006 related to the June 2005 issuance of preferred stock. Also contributing to the increase in operating loss was higher interest expense incurred on corporate debt. These operating losses were offset by a decrease in interest expense related to federal income 51 tax activities, a change in income tax reserves established for IRS tax matters and higher average annualized investment yields. Operating Revenues Operating revenues increased primarily due to an increase in average annualized investment yields, which were largely the result of a decrease in investment expenses related to a variable interest in a synthetic fuel production facility. The decrease in investment expense from this investment corresponds to an increase in income taxes due to fewer estimated synthetic fuel tax credits generated from fuel production. Partially offsetting the increase in operating revenues was an increase in inter segment eliminations included in this segment, which was offset by a corresponding change in total expenses. Further offsetting the increase in operating revenues was a decrease in fee revenue for transitional services provided to CitiMortgage, Inc. in 2005 related to the sale of Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc., which is mostly offset by a corresponding change in total expense. Total Expenses Total expenses decreased primarily due to an increase in inter segment eliminations included in this segment, which was offset by a corresponding change in operating revenues. Further contributing to the decrease in total expenses was a decrease in interest expense related to federal income tax activities and transitional services provided to CitiMortgage, Inc. in 2005 related to the sale of Principal Residential Mortgage, Inc., which is mostly offset in operating revenues. The decrease in total expenses was partially offset by additional interest on corporate debt. Income Taxes Income tax benefits decreased primarily due to a decrease in the estimated synthetic fuel tax credits in 2006, as well as a decrease in operating loss before income taxes. Partially offsetting the decrease in income tax benefits was a change in income tax reserves established for IRS tax matters. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity and capital resources represent the overall strength of a company and its ability to generate strong cash flows, borrow funds at a competitive rate and raise new capital to meet operating and growth needs. Our legal entity organizational structure has an impact on our ability to meet cash flow needs as an organization. Following is a simplified organizational structure. Liquidity Our liquidity requirements have been and will continue to be met by funds from consolidated operations as well as the issuance of commercial paper, common stock, debt or other capital securities and borrowings from credit facilities. We believe that cash flows from these sources are sufficient to satisfy the current liquidity requirements of our operations, including reasonably foreseeable contingencies. However, there can be no assurance that future experience regarding benefits and surrenders will be similar to historic experience since benefits and surrender levels are influenced by such factors as the interest rate environment, our claims paying ability and our financial strength ratings. The Holding Companies: Principal Financial Group, Inc. and Principal Financial Services, Inc. The principal sources of funds available to our parent holding company, Principal Financial Group, Inc., to meet its obligations, including the payments of dividends on common stock, debt service and the repurchase of stock, are dividends from subsidiaries as well as its ability to borrow funds at competitive rates and raise capital to meet operating and growth needs. Dividends from Principal Life, our primary subsidiary, are limited by Iowa law. Under Iowa laws, Principal Life may pay dividends only from the earned surplus arising from its business and must receive the prior approval of the Insurance Commissioner of the State of Iowa ("the Commissioner") to pay a stockholder dividend if such a stockholder dividend would exceed certain statutory limitations. The current statutory limitation is the greater of (i) 10% of Principal Lifes statutory 52 policyholder surplus as of the previous year end or (ii) the statutory net gain from operations from the previous calendar year. Iowa law gives the Commissioner discretion to disapprove requests for dividends in excess of these limits. Based on this limitation and 2007 statutory results, Principal Life could pay approximately $686.5 million in stockholder dividends in 2008 without exceeding the statutory limitation. Principal Life could have paid approximately $660.4 million in statutory dividends in 2007 based on its 2006 statutory financial results without being subject to the restrictions on payment of stockholder dividends. Total stockholder dividends paid by Principal Life to its parent company in 2007 were $650.0 million. Principal Life could have paid approximately $630.7 million in statutory dividends in 2006 based on its 2005 statutory financial results without being subject to the restrictions on payment of stockholder dividends. The ordinary stockholder dividends paid by Principal Life to its parent company in 2006 were $426.2 million. In addition, Principal Life requested and received permission from the Commissioner to pay an extraordinary dividend in the amount of $750.0 million. The extraordinary stockholder dividends paid by Principal Life to its parent in 2006 were $750.0 million. Principal Life could have paid approximately $591.1 million in statutory dividends in 2005 based on its 2004 statutory financial results without being subject to the restrictions on payment of stockholder dividends. Total stockholder dividends paid by Principal Life to its parent company in 2005 were $200.0 million. Operations. Historically, our primary consolidated cash flow sources have been premiums from life and health insurance products, pension and annuity deposits, asset management fee revenues, administrative services fee revenues, income from investments and proceeds from the sales or maturity of investments. Cash outflows consist primarily of payment of benefits to policyholders and beneficiaries, income and other taxes, current operating expenses, payment of dividends to policyholders, payments in connection with investments acquired, payments made to acquire subsidiaries, payments relating to policy and contract surrenders, withdrawals, policy loans, interest expense and repayment of short term debt and long term debt. Our investment strategies are generally intended to provide adequate funds to pay benefits without forced sales of investments. For a discussion of our investment objectives, strategies and a discussion of duration matching, see "Investments" as well as Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rate Risk". Cash Flows. Activity, as reported in our consolidated statements of cash flows, provides relevant information regarding our sources and uses of cash. The following discussion of our operating, investing and financing portions of the cash flows excludes cash flows attributable to our discontinued operations, which were as follows: For the year ended December 31, Cash flows attributable to discontinued operations: 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ 2.5 $ 1.9 $ 126.0 Net cash used in investing activities (1.3 ) (3.4 ) (127.0 ) Net cash used in financing activities (0.5 ) (0.6 ) (0.5 ) Net cash provided by operating activities was $2,960.0 million, $2,275.5 million and $2,125.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increase in cash provided by operating activities in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily related to fluctuations in operational receivables and payables. The increase in cash provided by operating activities in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily related to the payment in 2005 of an IRS deficiency related to the examination for 1999 2001. Also contributing to the increase in cash provided by operating activities was an increase in proceeds in the net mortgage loans held for sale activity, due to the transition of our CMBS platform from Principal Commercial Funding to a newly created entity, Principal Commercial Funding II, which is accounted for under the equity method of accounting. This increase in cash was partially offset by a decrease related to fluctuations in operational receivables and payables. Net cash used in investing activities was $4,499.2 million, $3,910.4 million and $1,481.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The increase in cash used in investing activities in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to an increase in net purchases of mortgage loans, available for sale securities and real estate as well as additional contributions in 2007 to an equity method investment with no corresponding activity in 2006. This increase was partially offset by larger acquisitions in 2006 relative to 2007. The increase in cash used in investing activities in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to a decrease in sales and fewer maturities of available for sale securities, partially offset by a decrease in purchases of available for sale securities. Also contributing to the increase was an increase in mortgage loans acquired and a decrease in mortgage loans sold. The acquisition of WM Advisors, Inc. in the fourth quarter of 2006 also contributed to the increase in cash used in investing activities. Net cash provided by financing activities was $1,292.1 million, $1,586.5 million and $546.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The decrease in cash provided by financing activities in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to the issuance of $600.0 million of senior notes from our shelf registration in 2006, with no 53 corresponding activity in 2007 as well as a decrease in net deposits of investment contracts, offset in part by proceeds from short term debt in the current year, compared to payments of short term debt in the previous year. The increase in cash provided by financing activities in 2006 compared to 2005 was primarily due to the issuance of senior notes from our shelf registration in 2006 in addition to an increase in net deposits of investment contracts and a decrease in treasury stock acquisitions in 2006 compared to 2005. Offsetting these increases in cash provided were repayments of short term debt, as well as the preferred stock issuance in 2005, with no corresponding activity in 2006. Shelf Registration. We filed a shelf registration statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission, which became effective on June 30, 2004. The shelf registration totals $3.0 billion, with the ability to issue debt securities, preferred stock, common stock, warrants, stock purchase contracts and stock purchase units of PFG and trust preferred securities of three subsidiary trusts. If we issue additional securities, we intend to use the proceeds from the sale of the securities for general corporate purposes, including working capital, capital expenditures, investments in subsidiaries, share repurchase, acquisitions and refinancing of debt, including commercial paper and other short term indebtedness. Principal Financial Services, Inc. unconditionally guarantees our obligations with respect to one or more series of debt securities described in the shelf registration statement. As of December 31, 2007, there is $1.85 billion remaining under the shelf registration. For information on senior notes issued from our shelf registration, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 12, Debt". Short Term Debt and Long Term Debt. For debt information, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 12, Debt." Stockholders Equity. Proceeds from the issuance of our common stock were $73.6 million and $66.2 million in 2007 and 2006, respectively. The following table summarizes our return of capital to common stockholders in 2007, 2006 and 2005. For the year ended December 31, 2007 2006 2005 (in millions) Dividends to stockholders $ 235.6 $ 214.7 $ 182.2 Repurchase of common stock 756.3 755.8 952.4 Total cash returned to stockholders $ 991.9 $ 970.5 $ 1,134.6 Number of shares repurchased 11.5 14.5 22.2 For additional stockholders equity information, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 16, Stockholders Equity." Capitalization Our capital structure as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 consisted of debt and equity summarized as follows: December 31, 2007 2006 (in millions) Debt: Short term debt $ 290.8 $ 84.1 Long term debt 1,398.8 1,511.3 Total debt 1,689.6 1,595.4 Stockholders equity: Equity excluding accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax 7,001.5 7,013.9 Accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax 420.2 846.9 Total stockholders equity 7,421.7 7,860.8 Total capitalization including accumulated other comprehensive income $ 9,111.3 $ 9,456.2 Debt to equity 23 % 20 % Debt to capitalization 19 % 17 % 54 Contractual Obligations The following table presents payments due by period for long term contractual obligations as of December 31, 2007: Payments due in year ending Contractual Obligations(1) Total Payments 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 and thereafter (in millions) Contractholder funds(2) $ 59,012.9 $ 7,448.6 $ 13,563.8 $ 9,774.6 $ 28,225.9 Future policy benefits and claims(3) 39,089.0 2,045.8 3,410.0 3,272.3 30,360.9 Long term debt(4) 1,398.8 83.4 482.6 105.5 727.3 Certificates of deposit(5) 1,069.0 610.5 389.0 64.4 5.1 Other long term liabilities(6) 926.5 677.0 249.5 Capital leases 11.3 5.4 5.5 0.4 Long term debt interest 1,431.7 94.0 125.9 95.9 1,115.9 Operating leases(7) 197.9 51.8 76.9 37.1 32.1 Purchase obligations(8) 597.2 541.4 43.2 12.6 Total contractual obligations $ 103,734.3 $ 11,557.9 $ 18,096.9 $ 13,362.8 $ 60,716.7 (1)Excludes short term liabilities, other policyholder funds, taxes and short term debt as these are not long term and or not contractual in nature. Also excludes obligations under our pension and other postretirement benefit plans as benefit payments will be made under a funded plan and will not require company contributions or payments within a five year period. In addition, separate account liabilities are excluded. Separate account liabilities represent the fair market value of funds that are separately administered by us. Generally, the separate account contract owner, rather than us, bears the investment risk of these funds. The separate account liabilities are legally segregated and are not subject to claims that arise out of any other business of ours. Net deposits, net investment income and realized and unrealized capital gains and losses on the separate accounts are not reflected in the consolidated statement of operations. The separate account obligations will be fully funded by cash flows from the separate account assets. (2)Includes GICs, funding agreements, individual fixed annuities, universal life insurance and other investment type contracts. See Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 11, Insurance Liabilities" for additional information. Amounts included in the contractholder funds line item reflect estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders. The sum of the cash outflows shown for all years in the table exceeds the corresponding liability amount included in our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2007. The liability amount in our consolidated financial statements reflects estimated cash payments to policyholders, assumptions with regard to the timing of cash payments and discounting for interest. (3)Amounts included in the future policy benefits and claims line item reflect estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders. The sum of the cash outflows shown for all years in the table exceeds the corresponding liability amount included in our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2007. The liability amount in our consolidated financial statements reflects estimated cash payments to policyholders, reductions for expected future premiums, assumptions with regard to the timing of cash payments and discounting for interest. (4)For long term debt information, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 12, Debt". (5)Amounts included in the certificates of deposit line item reflect estimated cash payments to be made, including expected interest payments. Certificates of deposit are reported as other liabilities on our consolidated statement of financial position. (6)Other long term liabilities include other liabilities reflected in the consolidated statement of financial position that are contractual, non cancelable and long term in nature. This line item excludes accruals and short term items in the amount of $3,072.4 million. (7)As a lessee, we lease office space, data processing equipment and office furniture and equipment under various operating leases. (8)Purchase obligations include material contracts where we have a non cancelable commitment to purchase goods and services in addition to commitments to originate loans and purchase investments. 55  Contractual Commitments In connection with our banking business, we make additional commitments to extend credit, which are agreements to lend to a customer as long as there is no violation of any conditions established in the contract. Commitments generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses and may require payment of a fee. A majority of these commitments are lines of credit and are expected to expire without being drawn upon. Therefore, the total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future cash funding requirements. We evaluate each customers creditworthiness on a case by case basis. The total commitments to fund loans were $319.4 million as of December 31, 2007. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Variable Interest Entities. We have relationships with various types of special purpose entities and other entities where we have a variable interest as described in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 5, Variable Interest Entities." We do not have a direct or contingent obligation related to our unconsolidated variable interest entities ("VIE") other than described below. Retained Interests in Securitized Assets. We, along with other contributors, sell commercial mortgage loans in securitization transactions to trusts. As these trusts are classified as a qualifying special purpose entity, they are not subject to the VIE consolidation rules. We may retain interests in the securitization transaction. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the fair values of retained interests related to the securitizations of commercial mortgage loans were $315.8 million and $345.3 million, respectively. The investors and the securitization entities have no recourse to our assets for failure of debtors to pay when due. The value of our retained interests is subject primarily to credit risk. Guarantees and Indemnifications. For guarantee and indemnification information, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 15, Contingencies, Guarantees and Indemnifications" under the caption, "Guarantees and Indemnifications". Financial Rating and Strength Our ratings are influenced by many factors including our operating and financial performance, asset quality, liquidity, asset/liability management, overall portfolio mix, financial leverage (i.e., debt), risk exposures, operating leverage, ratings and other factors. State laws specify regulatory actions if an insurers risk based capital ("RBC"), a measure of an insurers solvency, falls below certain levels. The NAIC has a standard formula for annually assessing RBC. The formulas for calculating RBC for life insurance companies takes into account factors relating to insurance, business, asset and interest rate risks. For additional rating information refer to Item 1. "Business, Ratings." Impacts of Income Taxes The IRS has completed examinations of the U.S. consolidated federal income tax returns for 2003 and prior years. The IRSs completion of the examinations for the years 1999 2001 resulted in notices of deficiency dated December 29, 2004, and March 1, 2005. We paid the deficiencies (approximately $444.0 million for 1999 and 2000, and $1.3 million for 2001, including interest) in the first quarter of 2005 and have filed, or will file, claims for refund relating to the disputed adjustments. The examination for the years 2002 and 2003 resulted in a refund of approximately $176.7 million (including interest) of which $161.5 million related to deficiencies previously paid as a result of the 1999 2001 examination. We believe that we have adequate defenses against, or sufficient provisions for, the contested issues, but final resolution of the contested issues could take several years while legal remedies are pursued. Consequently, we do not expect the ultimate resolution of issues in tax years 1999 2003 to have a material impact on our net income. Similarly, we believe there are adequate defenses against, or sufficient provisions for, any challenges that might arise in tax years subsequent to 2003. In August 2007, the IRS issued Revenue Ruling 2007 54, which provides guidance on the methodology that life insurance companies use to calculate the dividends received deduction relating to variable life insurance and variable annuity contracts. The deduction for dividends received reduces the amount of dividend income subject to tax and is a significant component of the difference between our periodic effective income tax rate and the U.S. corporate income tax rate of 35%. In September 2007, the IRS issued Revenue Ruling 2007 61, which suspended Revenue Ruling 2007 54, and indicated it would issue regulations to address the issues. No regulations have been proposed and we cannot predict whether any such regulations would affect our deduction for dividends received by insurance company affiliates with respect to variable contracts. On October 22, 2004, the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 ("American Jobs Creation Act") was signed into law. The American Jobs Creation Act included a repatriation provision granting U.S. corporations a special deduction of 85% of certain qualifying dividends from their foreign subsidiaries. A company could elect to apply this provision to qualifying earnings that were repatriated in its 2005 tax year. Pursuant to the American Jobs Creation Act, we implemented two domestic reinvestment plans in 2005. In accordance with the provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, we elected an 85% dividend received deduction on eligible cash dividends totaling $28.8 million. 56 Investments We had total consolidated assets as of December 31, 2007, of $154.5 billion, of which $64.4 billion were invested assets. The rest of our total consolidated assets are comprised primarily of separate account assets for which we do not bear investment risk. Because we generally do not bear any investment risk on assets held in separate accounts, the discussion and financial information below does not include such assets. Overall Composition of Invested Assets Invested assets as of December 31, 2007, were predominantly of high quality and broadly diversified across asset class, individual credit, industry and geographic location. Asset allocation is determined based on cash flow and the risk/return requirements of our products. As shown in the following table, the major categories of invested assets are fixed maturity securities and commercial mortgages. The remainder is invested in residential mortgage loans, real estate, equity securities and other assets. In addition, policy loans are included in our invested assets.  Invested Assets December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 Carrying amount % of total Carrying amount % of total ($ in millions) Fixed maturity securities: Public $ 32,215.0 50 % $ 31,075.5 52 % Private 15,053.2 24 13,651.4 23 Equity securities 586.2 1 847.6 1 Mortgage loans: Commercial 10,763.5 17 10,090.3 17 Residential 1,896.1 3 1,573.6 3 Real estate held for sale 82.4 118.2 Real estate held for investment 780.1 1 695.4 1 Policy loans 869.9 1 850.7 1 Other investments 2,118.6 3 1,410.7 2 Total invested assets $ 64,365.0 100 % 60,313.4 100 % Cash and cash equivalents 1,344.4 1,591.5 Total invested assets and cash $ 65,709.4 $ 61,904.9 Investment Results The following tables present the yield and investment income, excluding net realized/unrealized gains and losses for our invested assets. The annualized yield on invested assets and on cash and cash equivalents was 6.2% for the year ended December 31, 2007, compared to 6.0% for the year ended December 31, 2006. We calculate annualized yields using a simple average of asset classes at the beginning and end of the reporting period.  Invested Assets Investment Income Yields by Asset Type For the year ended December 31, 2007 2006 Yield Amount Yield Amount ($ in millions) Fixed maturity securities 6.2 % $ 2,869.2 6.1 % $ 2,636.4 Equity securities 3.8 27.0 7.0 58.0 Mortgage loans commercial 6.6 688.9 6.5 653.6 Mortgage loans residential 7.5 129.7 5.7 90.7 Real estate 8.9 74.9 7.6 63.2 Policy loans 6.1 52.6 6.1 50.9 Cash and cash equivalents 7.2 105.9 4.0 64.4 Other investments 9.3 165.1 10.5 132.2 Total before investment expenses 6.4 4,113.3 6.2 3,749.4 Investment expenses 0.2 (146.8 ) 0.2 (128.8 ) Net investment income 6.2 % $ 3,966.5 6.0 % $ 3,620.6 57 The following tables present the contributors to net realized/unrealized gains and losses for our invested assets for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. For the year ended December 31, 2007 Impairments and credit losses Other gains (losses) Hedging adjustments Net realized/ unrealized capital gains (losses) (in millions) Fixed maturity securities(1) $ (262.8 ) $ 17.1 $ 151.8 $ (93.9 ) Fixed maturity securities, trading 1.7 1.7 Equity securities(2) (51.3 ) 5.0 (46.3 ) Equity securities, trading 23.0 23.0 Mortgage loans on real estate(3) (7.1 ) (7.1 ) Derivatives(4) (269.2 ) (269.2 ) Other(5) 34.6 28.4 63.0 Total $ (321.2 ) $ 81.4 $ (89.0 ) $ (328.8 ) (1)Impairments include $215.7 million of credit impairment write downs and $8.4 million in realized credit recoveries on the sale of previously impaired assets. Certain fixed maturity securities moved into a loss position during the second quarter of 2007, and we determined that we did not have the ability and intent to hold these securities. As a result, we recognized impairment losses on these securities of $24.5 million, net of recoveries on the subsequent sale, primarily due to a change in interest rates. Credit losses include $32.3 million in realized losses and $2.0 million in realized gains related to credit triggered sales. (2)Impairments include $52.6 million of credit impairment write downs and $1.3 million in realized credit recoveries on the sale of previously impaired assets. (3)Impairments include $2.7 million in realized gains that resulted from the sale of a commercial mortgage loan for which we had credit concerns and a $9.8 million increase in the commercial mortgage valuation allowance. (4)Derivatives include $153.5 million of net unrealized losses related to mark to market adjustments on derivatives used in fair value hedges of fixed maturity securities. The remainder of the net loss resulted primarily from mark to market adjustments on derivatives not designated as hedging instruments, with the largest component being $81.1 million of net losses on credit default swaps and the remainder relating to risk management activities. (5)Other gains (losses) include a $24.6 million realized gain on the sale of stock of an equity method investment and mark to market of net realized/unrealized gains on certain seed money investments. For the year ended December 31, 2006 Impairments and credit losses Other gains (losses) Hedging adjustments Net realized/ unrealized capital gains (losses) (in millions) Fixed maturity securities(1) $ (32.1 ) $ 10.0 $ (14.6 ) $ (36.7 ) Fixed maturity securities, trading 1.0 1.0 Equity securities(2) 1.0 0.6 1.6 Equity securities, trading 21.8 21.8 Mortgage loans on real estate(3) 2.4 2.4 Derivatives (4.7 ) (4.7 ) Other(4) 64.3 (5.0 ) 59.3 Total $ (28.7 ) $ 97.7 $ (24.3 ) $ 44.7 (1)Impairments include $14.6 million of credit impairment write downs and $16.5 million in realized credit recoveries on the sale of previously impaired assets. As the result of the need to fund the acquisition of WM Advisors, Inc., impairments also include $12.4 million of write downs that resulted from our determination that we no longer had the ability and intent to hold certain fixed maturity securities until they recovered in value. This loss is net of the recovery realized on the subsequent sale of the securities. Credit losses include $0.6 million in realized gains and $22.2 million in realized losses related to credit triggered sales. (2)Impairments include $1.0 million in realized recoveries on the sale of previously impaired assets. (3)Impairments include $2.5 million in realized losses due to the sale of commercial mortgage loans, $3.6 million in realized recoveries on the sale of previously impaired commercial mortgage loans, a $2.1 million decrease in the 58 commercial mortgage valuation allowance and a $0.7 million increase in the residential mortgage valuation allowance held by our international operations. (4)Other gains (losses) include a $44.3 million realized gain on the sale of stock of an equity method investment and mark to market of net realized/unrealized gains on certain seed money investments. U.S. Investment Operations Of our invested assets, $60.3 billion were held by our U.S. operations. Our U.S. invested assets are managed by Principal Global Investors, a subsidiary of Principal Life. Our primary investment objective is to maximize after tax returns consistent with acceptable risk parameters. We seek to protect policyholders benefits by optimizing the risk/return relationship on an ongoing basis, through asset/liability matching, reducing the credit risk, avoiding high levels of investments that may be redeemed by the issuer, maintaining sufficiently liquid investments and avoiding undue asset concentrations through diversification. We are exposed to three primary sources of investment risk: credit risk, relating to the uncertainty associated with the continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments of principal and interest; interest rate risk, relating to the market price and or cash flow variability associated with changes in market yield curves; and equity risk, relating to adverse fluctuations in a particular common stock. Our ability to manage credit risk is essential to our business and our profitability. We devote considerable resources to the credit analysis of each new investment. We manage credit risk through industry, issuer and asset class diversification. Our Investment Committee, appointed by our Board of Directors, is responsible for establishing all investment policies and approving or authorizing all investments, except the Executive Committee of the Board must approve any investment transaction exceeding $500.0 million. As of December 31, 2007, there are ten members on the Investment Committee, two of whom are members of our Board of Directors. The remaining members are senior management members representing various areas of our company. We also seek to reduce call or prepayment risk arising from changes in interest rates in individual investments. We limit our exposure to investments that are prepayable without penalty prior to maturity at the option of the issuer, and we require additional yield on these investments to compensate for the risk that the issuer will exercise such option. We assess option risk in all investments we make and, when we take that risk, we price for it accordingly. Our Fixed Income Securities Committee, consisting of fixed income securities senior management members, approves the credit rating for the fixed maturity securities we purchase. Teams of security analysts, organized by industry, focus either on the public or private markets and analyze and monitor these investments. In addition, we have teams who specialize in residential mortgage backed securities, CMBS, asset backed securities ("ABS") and public below investment grade securities. We establish a credit reviewed list of approved public issuers to provide an efficient way for our portfolio managers to purchase liquid bonds for which credit review has already been completed. Issuers remain on the list for one year unless removed by our analysts. Our analysts monitor issuers on the list on a continuous basis with a formal review documented annually or more frequently if material events affect the issuer. The analysis includes both fundamental and technical factors. The fundamental analysis encompasses both quantitative and qualitative analysis of the issuer. The qualitative analysis includes an assessment of both accounting and management aggressiveness. In addition, technical indicators such as stock price volatility and credit default swap levels are monitored. Our Fixed Income Securities Committee also reviews private transactions on a continuous basis to assess the quality ratings of our privately placed investments. We regularly review our investments to determine whether we should re rate them, employing the following criteria: material declines in the issuers revenues or margins; significant management or organizational changes; significant uncertainty regarding the issuers industry; debt service coverage or cash flow ratios that fall below industry specific thresholds; violation of financial covenants; and other business factors that relate to the issuer. A dedicated risk management team is responsible for centralized monitoring of the commercial mortgage portfolio. We apply a variety of strategies to minimize credit risk in our commercial mortgage loan portfolio. When considering the origination of new commercial mortgage loans, we review the cash flow fundamentals of the property, make a physical assessment of the underlying security, conduct a comprehensive market analysis and compare against industry lending practices. We use a proprietary risk rating model to evaluate all new and a majority of existing loans within the portfolio. The proprietary risk model is designed to stress projected cash flows under simulated economic and market downturns. 59 Our lending guidelines are designed to encourage 75% or less loan to value ratios and a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.2 times. We analyze investments outside of these guidelines based on cash flow quality, tenancy and other factors. The weighted average loan to value ratio at origination for brick and mortar commercial mortgages in our portfolio was 65% and the debt service coverage ratio at loan inception was 1.7 times as of December 31, 2007. We have limited exposure to equity risk in our common stock portfolio. Equity securities accounted for only 1% of our U.S. invested assets as of December 31, 2007. Our investment decisions and objectives are a function of the underlying risks and product profiles of each primary business operation. In addition, we diversify our product portfolio offerings to include products that contain features that will protect us against fluctuations in interest rates. Those features include adjustable crediting rates, policy surrender charges and market value adjustments on liquidations. For further information on our management of interest rate risk, see Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk." Overall Composition of U.S. Invested Assets U.S. invested assets as of December 31, 2007, were predominantly of high quality and broadly diversified across asset class, individual credit, industry and geographic location. Asset allocation is determined based on cash flow and the risk/return requirements of our products. As shown in the following table, the major categories of U.S. invested assets are fixed maturity securities and commercial mortgages. The remainder is invested in residential mortgage loans, real estate, equity securities and other assets. In addition, policy loans are included in our invested assets. The following discussion analyzes the composition of U.S. invested assets, but excludes invested assets of the participating separate accounts.  U.S. Invested Assets December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 Carrying amount % of total Carrying amount % of total ($ in millions) Fixed maturity securities: Public $ 29,495.5 49 % $ 28,772.4 51 % Private 15,053.2 25 13,651.4 24 Equity securities 533.5 1 795.7 1 Mortgage loans: Commercial 10,763.5 18 10,090.3 18 Residential 1,337.5 2 1,051.6 2 Real estate held for sale 82.4 118.2 Real estate held for investment 777.2 1 683.2 1 Policy loans 853.7 2 850.7 1 Other investments 1,391.4 2 972.6 2 Total invested assets 60,287.9 100 % 56,986.1 100 % Cash and cash equivalents 1,261.5 1,536.5 Total invested assets and cash $ 61,549.4 $ 58,522.6 Fixed Maturity Securities Fixed maturity securities consist of short term investments, publicly traded debt securities, privately placed debt securities and redeemable preferred stock, and represented 74% and 75% of total U.S. invested assets as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The fixed maturity securities portfolio was comprised, based on carrying amount, of 66% in publicly traded fixed maturity securities and 34% in privately placed fixed maturity securities as of December 31, 2007, and 68% in publicly traded fixed maturity securities and 32% in privately placed fixed maturity securities as of December 31, 2006. Included in the privately placed category as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, were $8.4 billion and $7.6 billion, respectively, of securities eligible for resale to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A 60 under the Securities Act of 1933. Fixed maturity securities were diversified by category of issuer as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, as shown in the following table:  U.S. Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities by Type of Issuer December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 Carrying amount % of total Carrying amount % of total ($ in millions) U.S. Government and agencies $ 672.3 1 % $ 551.6 1 % States and political subdivisions 2,071.5 5 1,663.5 4 Non U.S. governments 453.9 1 420.7 1 Corporate public 19,875.2 45 19,791.1 47 Corporate private 11,813.1 27 10,596.5 25 Residential pass through securities 1,496.1 3 1,557.6 4 Commercial mortgage backed securities 4,665.6 10 4,297.0 10 Residential collateralized mortgage obligations 936.9 2 940.4 2 Asset backed securities 2,564.1 6 2,605.4 6 Total fixed maturities $ 44,548.7 100 % $ 42,423.8 100 % We held $9,662.7 million of mortgage backed and ABS as of December 31, 2007, and $9,400.4 million as of December 31, 2006. We believe that it is desirable to hold residential mortgage backed pass through securities due to their credit quality and liquidity as well as portfolio diversification characteristics. Our portfolio is comprised of GNMA, FNMA and FHLMC pass through securities. In addition, our residential collateralized mortgage obligation portfolio offers structural features that allow cash flows to be matched to our liabilities. CMBS provide high levels of credit protection, diversification, reduced event risk and enhanced liquidity. CMBS are predominantly comprised of rated large pool securitizations that are individually and collectively diverse by property type, borrower and geographic dispersion. We purchase ABS to diversify the overall credit risks of the fixed maturity securities portfolio and to provide attractive returns. The principal risks in holding ABS are structural and credit risks. Structural risks include the securitys priority in the issuers capital structure, the adequacy of and ability to realize proceeds from the collateral and the potential for prepayments. Credit risks involve issuer/servicer risk where collateral values can become impaired in the event of servicer credit deterioration. Our ABS portfolio is diversified both by type of asset and by issuer. We actively monitor holdings of ABS to ensure that the risk profile of each security improves or remains consistent. Prepayments in the ABS portfolio are, in general, insensitive to changes in interest rates or are insulated to such changes by call protection features. In the event that we are subject to prepayment risk, we monitor the factors that impact the level of prepayment and prepayment speed for those ABS. In addition, we diversify the risks of ABS by holding a diverse class of securities, which limits our exposure to any one security. The international exposure in our U.S. fixed maturity securities totaled $10,046.5 million, or 23% of total fixed maturity securities, as of December 31, 2007, comprised of corporate and foreign government fixed maturity securities. Of the $10,046.5 million as of December 31, 2007, investments totaled $2,843.1 million in the continental European Union, $2,641.7 million in the United Kingdom, $1,059.0 million in Asia, $954.1 million in Australia, $594.6 million in South America, $340.3 million in Mexico and $59.4 million in Japan. The remaining $1,554.3 million is invested in 24 other countries. All international fixed maturity securities held by our U.S. operations are either denominated in U.S. dollars or have been swapped into U.S. dollar equivalents. Our international investments are analyzed internally by country and industry credit investment professionals. We control concentrations using issuer and country level exposure benchmarks, which are based on the credit quality of the issuer and the country. Our investment policy limits total international fixed maturity securities investments to 18% of total statutory general account assets with a 4% limit in emerging markets. Exposure to Canada is not included in our international exposure. As of December 31, 2007, our investments in Canada totaled $1,576.4 million. 61  The following tables present the amortized cost of our top ten exposures including approved counterparty exposure limits as of December 31, 2007 and 2006. December 31, 2007 Amortized cost (in millions) Bank of America Corp.(1) $ 360.7 MBIA Inc.(2) 323.6 American International Group Inc.(1) 270.1 General Electric Co 259.6 AT&T Inc. 250.9 Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC(1) 240.9 JP Morgan Chase & Co.(1) 237.6 Ambac Financial Group Inc.(3) 235.3 Citigroup Inc.(1) 233.2 Deutsche Bank AG(1) 203.7 Total top ten exposures $ 2,615.6 (1)Includes approved counterparty limit. The actual and the stressed potential exposures are less than the approved limit. (2)MBIA Inc. exposure is predominately comprised of the guarantee of underlying securities that are rated "A " equivalent or better by the rating agencies on a stand alone basis. The MBIA wrap guarantees performance in the event of default of the underlying securities bringing the combined rating to AAA. (3)Of the Ambac Financial Group Inc. exposure, 84% is comprised of the guarantee of underlying securities that are predominantly rated A equivalent or better by the rating agencies on a stand alone basis. The Ambac Financial Group Inc. wrap guarantees performance in the event of default of the underlying securities, bringing the combined rating to AAA. December 31, 2006 Amortized cost (in millions) HSBC Holdings PLC(1) $ 387.1 American International Group Inc.(2) 329.5 Bank of America Corp.(2) 328.3 MBIA Inc.(3) 311.5 AT&T Inc. 272.9 JP Morgan Chase & Co.(2) 271.7 Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC(2) 255.6 Deutsche Bank AG(2) 255.0 General Electric Co 239.2 ABN AMRO Holding NV(2) 229.6 Total top ten exposures $ 2,880.4 (1)Includes a $238.0 million investment classified as an equity security for U.S. GAAP. The investment issuer engages in managing investment grade third party bond investments and HSBC paper. All non HSBC paper has the ultimate benefit of price support protection provided by HSBC Bank, PLC. Since Principal Life Insurance Company has senior priority in the issuer, we believe many third party bonds could be liquidated to satisfy our claim. While we calculate our exposure on a gross basis, the value we attribute to the underlying collateral is $125.0 million. (2)Includes approved counterparty limit. The actual and the stressed potential exposures are less than the approved limit. (3)MBIA Inc. exposure is predominately comprised of the guarantee of underlying securities which are rated "A " equivalent or better by the rating agencies on a stand alone basis. The MBIA wrap guarantees performance in the event of a default of the underlying securities bringing the combined rating to AAA. Our top ten exposures were rated an "A" equivalent or better by the rating agencies as of December 31, 2007 and 2006. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, no individual non government issuer represented more than 1% of U.S. invested assets. HSBC Holdings PLC is no longer included in our top ten exposures due to the redemption of a $238.0 million investment in January 2007. 62 Valuation techniques for the fixed maturity securities portfolio vary by security type and the availability of market data. Pricing models and their underlying assumptions impact the amount and timing of unrealized gains and losses recognized, and the use of different pricing models or assumptions could produce different financial results. Interactive Data Corporation or direct broker quotes are our sources for external prices for our public bonds and those private placement securities that are actively traded in the secondary market. In cases where quoted market prices are not available, a matrix pricing valuation approach is used. Securities are grouped into pricing categories that vary by asset class, sector, rating and average life. Each pricing category is assigned a risk spread based on studies of observable public market data or market clearing data from the investment professionals assigned to specific security classes. The expected cash flows of the security are then discounted back at the current Treasury curve plus the appropriate risk spread. Although the matrix valuation approach provides a fair valuation of each pricing category, the valuation of an individual security within each pricing category may actually be impacted by company specific factors. Certain market events that could impact the valuation of securities include issuer credit ratings, business climate, management changes, litigation and government actions among others. The resulting prices are then reviewed by pricing analysts. All loans placed on the "watch list" are valued individually by the investment analysts or the analysts that focus on troubled securities ("Workout Group"). Although we believe our estimates reasonably reflect the fair value of those securities, the key assumptions about risk premiums, performance of underlying collateral (if any) and other factors involve significant assumptions and may not reflect those of an active market. To the extent that bonds have longer maturity dates, managements estimate of fair value may involve greater subjectivity since they involve judgment about events well into the future. Every month, there is a comprehensive review of all impaired securities and problem loans by a group consisting of the Chief Investment Officer, the Portfolio Managers and the Workout Group. The valuation of impaired bonds for which there is no quoted price is typically based on the present value of the future cash flows expected to be received. If the company is likely to continue operations, the estimate of future cash flows is typically based on the expected operating cash flows of the company that are available to make payments on the bonds. If the company is likely to liquidate, the estimate of future cash flows is based on an estimate of the liquidation value of its net assets. The Securities Valuation Office ("SVO") of the NAIC evaluates most of the fixed maturity securities that we and other U.S. insurance companies hold. The SVO evaluates the bond investments of insurers for regulatory reporting purposes and assigns securities to one of six investment categories. The NAIC designations closely mirror the nationally recognized securities rating organizations credit ratings for marketable bonds. NAIC designations 1 and 2 include bonds considered investment grade by such rating organizations. Bonds are considered investment grade when rated "Baa3" or higher by Moodys, or "BBB " or higher by Standard & Poors. NAIC designations 3 through 6 are referred to as below investment grade. Bonds are considered below investment grade when rated "Ba1" or lower by Moodys, or "BB+" or lower by Standard & Poors. As of December 31, 2007, the percentage, based on estimated fair value, of total publicly traded and privately placed fixed maturity securities that were investment grade with an NAIC designation 1 or 2 was 95%. We also monitor the credit drift of our corporate fixed maturity securities portfolio. Credit drift is defined as the ratio of the percentage of rating downgrades, including defaults, divided by the percentage of rating upgrades. We measure credit drift once each fiscal year, assessing the changes in our internally developed credit ratings that have occurred during the year. Standard & Poors annual credit ratings drift ratio measures the credit rating change, within a specific year, of companies that have been assigned ratings by Standard & Poors. The annual internal credit drift ratio on corporate fixed maturity securities we held in our general account was 0.89 times compared to the Standard & Poors drift ratio of 0.69 times, as of December 31, 2007. 63 The following table presents our total fixed maturity securities by NAIC designation and the equivalent ratings of the nationally recognized securities rating organizations as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, as well as the percentage, based on estimated fair value, that each designation comprises:  U.S. Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities by Credit Quality(1) December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 NAIC rating Rating agency equivalent Amortized cost Carrying amount % of total carrying amount Amortized cost Carrying amount % of total carrying amount ($ in millions) 1 Aaa/Aa/A $ 25,635.0 $ 25,644.1 57 % $ 23,716.0 $ 24,231.9 57 % 2 Baa 16,661.8 16,742.0 38 15,769.9 16,205.5 38 3 Ba 1,904.7 1,872.1 4 1,586.8 1,657.1 4 4 B 179.0 179.4 1 290.5 302.6 1 5 Caa and lower 103.1 99.2 19.1 19.5 6 In or near default 12.0 11.9 5.5 7.2 Total fixed maturities $ 44,495.6 $ 44,548.7 100 % $ 41,387.8 $ 42,423.8 100 % (1)Includes 56 securities with an amortized cost of $541.3 million, gross gains of $5.8 million, gross losses of $14.1 million and a carrying amount of $533.0 million as of December 31, 2007, that are still pending a review and assignment of a rating by the SVO. Due to the timing of when fixed maturity securities are purchased, legal documents are filed and the review by the SVO, there will always be securities in our portfolio that are unrated over a reporting period. In these instances, an equivalent rating is assigned based on our fixed income analysts assessment. The following tables present credit quality and year of issuance ("vintage") for our CMBS portfolio and our ABS home equity portfolio backed by subprime first lien mortgages. As of December 31, 2007, based on amortized cost, 86% of our CMBS portfolio had ratings of A or higher and 71% was issued in 2005 or before and 99% of our ABS home equity portfolio had ratings of A or higher and 87% was issued in 2005 or before.  U.S. Invested Assets Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities by Rating and Vintage December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 Amortized cost Carrying amount Amortized cost Carrying amount (in millions) Lowest agency rating AAA(1) $ 2,818.8 $ 2,829.6 $ 2,583.0 $ 2,609.5 AA 645.3 631.3 541.5 549.4 A 636.4 601.4 513.8 526.1 BBB 569.8 504.8 423.1 446.1 BB and below 84.1 98.5 134.9 165.9 Total by lowest agency rating $ 4,754.4 $ 4,665.6 $ 4,196.3 $ 4,297.0 Vintage 2003 and prior $ 2,092.9 $ 2,174.9 $ 2,400.3 $ 2,512.8 2004 545.6 523.4 584.3 574.8 2005 716.2 683.4 841.0 835.9 2006 428.2 389.7 370.7 373.5 2007 971.5 894.2 Total by vintage $ 4,754.4 $ 4,665.6 $ 4,196.3 $ 4,297.0 (1)Includes leveraged interest only CMBS for which our fixed income analysts internally rate as BBB , but the agencies rate as AAA. 64  U.S. Invested Assets Asset Backed Securities Home Equity by Rating and Vintage December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 Amortized cost Carrying amount Amortized cost Carrying amount (in millions) Lowest agency rating AAA $ 454.4 $ 434.1 $ 469.4 $ 465.0 AA 105.1 90.9 155.5 155.7 A 31.4 27.4 16.0 16.1 BBB 8.1 4.6 BB and below Total by lowest agency rating $ 599.0 $ 557.0 $ 640.9 $ 636.8 Vintage 2003 and prior $ 307.6 $ 290.2 $ 376.6 $ 375.3 2004 104.3 100.2 120.2 118.0 2005 107.6 97.6 115.3 114.2 2006 16.3 15.7 28.8 29.3 2007 63.2 53.3 Total by vintage $ 599.0 $ 557.0 $ 640.9 $ 636.8 We believe that our long term fixed maturity securities portfolio is well diversified among industry types and between publicly traded and privately placed securities. Each year, we direct the majority of our net cash inflows into investment grade fixed maturity securities. Our current policy is to limit the percentage of cash flow invested in below investment grade assets to 7% of cash flow. As of December 31, 2007, we had invested 3.7% of new cash flow for the year in below investment grade assets. While the general account investment returns have improved due to the below investment grade asset class, we manage its growth strategically by limiting it to 10% of the total fixed maturity securities portfolios. We invest in privately placed fixed maturity securities to enhance the overall value of the portfolio, increase diversification and obtain higher yields than are possible with comparable quality public market securities. Generally, private placements provide broader access to management information, strengthened negotiated protective covenants, call protection features and, where applicable, a higher level of collateral. They are, however, generally not freely tradable because of restrictions imposed by federal and state securities laws and illiquid trading markets. The following table shows the carrying amount of our corporate fixed maturity securities by Salomon industry category, as well as the percentage of the total corporate portfolio that each Salomon industry category comprises as of December 31, 2007 and 2006.  U.S. Invested Assets Corporate Fixed Maturity Securities by Salomon Industry December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 Carrying amount % of total Carrying amount % of total ($ in millions) Industry class Finance Bank $ 4,125.7 13 % $ 3,659.2 12 % Finance Insurance 3,147.8 10 3,119.1 10 Finance Other 4,770.1 15 4,792.2 16 Industrial Consumer 1,241.3 4 1,100.0 4 Industrial Energy 3,143.0 10 2,683.2 9 Industrial Manufacturing 5,638.7 18 5,518.4 18 Industrial Other 171.4 1 105.3 Industrial Service 4,432.1 14 4,462.3 15 Industrial Transport 1,020.1 3 836.9 3 Utility Electric 2,325.5 7 2,417.9 8 Utility Other 46.5 47.6 Utility Telecom 1,626.1 5 1,645.5 5 Total $ 31,688.3 100 % $ 30,387.6 100 % 65 We monitor any decline in the credit quality of fixed maturity securities through the designation of "problem securities", "potential problem securities" and "restructured securities". We define problem securities in our fixed maturity portfolio as securities: (i) as to which principal and or interest payments are in default or where default is perceived to be imminent in the near term, or (ii) issued by a company that went into bankruptcy subsequent to the acquisition of such securities. We define potential problem securities in our fixed maturity portfolio as securities included on an internal "watch list" for which management has concerns as to the ability of the issuer to comply with the present debt payment terms and which may result in the security becoming a problem or being restructured. The decision whether to classify a performing fixed maturity security as a potential problem involves significant subjective judgments by our management as to the likely future industry conditions and developments with respect to the issuer. We define restructured securities in our fixed maturity portfolio as securities where a concession has been granted to the borrower related to the borrowers financial difficulties that would not have otherwise been considered. We determine that restructures should occur in those instances where greater economic value will be realized under the new terms than through liquidation or other disposition and may involve a change in contractual cash flows. If at the time of restructure, the present value of the new future cash flows is less than the current cost of the asset being restructured, a realized capital loss is recorded in net income and a new cost basis is established. We have a process in place to identify securities that could potentially have a credit impairment that is other than temporary. This process involves monitoring market events that could impact issuers credit ratings, business climate, management changes, litigation and government actions and other similar factors. This process also involves monitoring late payments, pricing levels, downgrades by rating agencies, key financial ratios, financial statements, revenue forecasts and cash flow projections as indicators of credit issues. Every month, a group of individuals including the Chief Investment Officer, our Portfolio Managers, members of our Workout Group and representatives from Investment Accounting review all securities to determine whether an other than temporary decline in value exists and whether losses should be recognized. The analysis focuses on each issuers ability to service its debts in a timely fashion and the length of time the security has been trading below cost. Formal documentation of the analysis and our decision is prepared and approved by management. We consider relevant facts and circumstances in evaluating whether a credit or interest rate related impairment of a security is other than temporary. Relevant facts and circumstances considered include: (1) the extent and length of time the fair value has been below cost; (2) the reasons for the decline in value; (3) the financial position and access to capital of the issuer, including the current and future impact of any specific events; and (4) our ability and intent to hold the security for a period of time that allows for the recovery in value which, in some cases, may extend to maturity. To the extent we determine that a security is deemed to be other than temporarily impaired, the difference between amortized cost and fair value would be charged to net income. There are a number of significant risks and uncertainties inherent in the process of monitoring credit impairments and determining if an impairment is other than temporary. These risks and uncertainties include: (1) the risk that our assessment of an issuers ability to meet all of its contractual obligations will change based on changes in the credit characteristics of that issuer, (2) the risk that the economic outlook will be worse than expected or have more of an impact on the issuer than anticipated, (3) the risk that our investment professionals are making decisions based on fraudulent or misstated information in the financial statements provided by issuers and (4) the risk that new information obtained by us or changes in other facts and circumstances lead us to change our intent to hold the security to maturity or until it recovers in value. Any of these situations could result in a charge to earnings in a future period. Due to the credit disruption in the last half of 2007 that led to reduced liquidity and wider credit spreads, we saw an increase in realized and unrealized losses in our securities portfolio. The losses were more pronounced in structured products such as collateralized debt obligations and ABS. The decline in value in large part reflects the illiquid markets. The net realized loss relating to other than temporary credit impairments of fixed maturity securities was $207.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. The largest portion of this loss relates to collateralized debt obligations with sub prime exposure and certain structured residual interest securities. Certain fixed maturity securities moved into a loss position during the second quarter of 2007, and we determined that we did not have the ability and intent to hold these securities. As a result, we recognized impairment losses on these securities of $24.5 million, net of recoveries on the subsequent sale, primarily due to a change in interest rates. For the year ended December 31, 2007, we realized $34.6 million of gross losses upon disposal of bonds excluding hedging adjustments. Included in this $34.6 million is $32.3 million related to sales of forty two credit impaired and credit related names. We generally intend to hold securities in unrealized loss positions until they mature or recover. However, we do sell bonds under certain circumstances such as when we have evidence of a significant deterioration in the issuers creditworthiness, when a change in regulatory requirements modifies what constitutes a permissible investment or the maximum level of investments held or when there is an increase in capital requirements or a change in risk weights of debt securities. Sales generate both gains and losses. 66 The following tables present our fixed maturity securities available for sale by industry category and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses as of December 31, 2007 and 2006.  U.S. Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Industry Category December 31, 2007 Amortized cost Gross unrealized gains Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount (in millions) Finance Bank $ 4,226.4 $ 46.0 $ 176.7 $ 4,095.7 Finance Insurance 3,115.6 100.6 68.4 3,147.8 Finance Other 4,784.1 133.4 147.4 4,770.1 Industrial Consumer 1,230.2 30.2 19.1 1,241.3 Industrial Energy 3,012.3 153.7 23.0 3,143.0 Industrial Manufacturing 5,601.8 145.0 108.1 5,638.7 Industrial Other 169.9 2.5 1.0 171.4 Industrial Service 4,341.6 137.2 46.7 4,432.1 Industrial Transport 1,001.4 42.2 23.5 1,020.1 Utility Electric 2,268.6 79.9 23.0 2,325.5 Utility Other 41.0 5.5 46.5 Utility Telecom 1,558.9 86.3 19.1 1,626.1 Total corporate securities 31,351.8 962.5 656.0 31,658.3 Residential pass through securities 1,481.5 23.6 9.0 1,496.1 Commercial mortgage backed securities 4,754.4 107.4 196.2 4,665.6 Residential collateralized mortgage obligations 947.7 3.3 14.1 936.9 Asset backed securities Home equity 599.0 0.1 42.1 557.0 Asset backed securities All other 892.6 19.1 8.3 903.4 Collateralized debt obligations Credit 735.4 0.1 123.6 611.9 Collateralized debt obligations CMBS 332.7 1.4 71.6 262.5 Collateralized debt obligations Loans 88.8 5.7 83.1 Collateralized debt obligations ABS 94.1 30.1 64.0 Total mortgage backed and other asset backed securities 9,926.2 155.0 500.7 9,580.5 U.S. Government and agencies 628.5 29.0 0.1 657.4 States and political subdivisions 1,867.6 39.1 10.2 1,896.5 Non U.S. governments 419.4 35.7 1.2 453.9 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ 44,193.5 $ 1,221.3 $ 1,168.2 $ 44,246.6 67   U.S. Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Industry Category December 31, 2006 Amortized cost Gross unrealized gains Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount (in millions) Finance Bank $ 3,592.1 $ 78.3 $ 21.9 $ 3,648.5 Finance Insurance 3,057.4 83.0 21.8 3,118.6 Finance Other 4,661.3 166.9 36.5 4,791.7 Industrial Consumer 1,082.1 29.1 11.3 1,099.9 Industrial Energy 2,552.2 145.5 15.7 2,682.0 Industrial Manufacturing 5,406.1 155.8 44.0 5,517.9 Industrial Other 104.7 1.3 0.7 105.3 Industrial Service 4,344.3 143.9 26.9 4,461.3 Industrial Transport 796.0 46.2 5.3 836.9 Utility Electric 2,343.5 91.9 17.7 2,417.7 Utility Other 41.0 6.6 47.6 Utility Telecom 1,569.0 87.6 11.3 1,645.3 Total corporate securities 29,549.7 1,036.1 213.1 30,372.7 Residential pass through securities 1,557.9 19.9 20.2 1,557.6 Commercial mortgage backed securities 4,121.1 133.9 33.2 4,221.8 Residential collateralized mortgage obligations 951.5 0.9 13.9 938.5 Asset backed securities Home equity 638.5 1.5 5.6 634.4 Asset backed securities All other 994.0 50.9 2.2 1,042.7 Collateralized debt obligations Credit 527.5 0.9 0.4 528.0 Collateralized debt obligations CMBS 197.9 8.5 1.8 204.6 Collateralized debt obligations Loans 53.9 0.7 0.5 54.1 Collateralized debt obligations ABS 123.3 0.2 123.5 Total mortgage backed and other asset backed securities 9,165.6 217.4 77.8 9,305.2 U.S. Government and agencies 530.8 0.8 3.8 527.8 States and political subdivisions 1,557.7 45.4 4.9 1,598.2 Non U.S. governments 384.9 36.1 0.3 420.7 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ 41,188.7 $ 1,335.8 $ 299.9 $ 42,224.6 The total unrealized losses on our fixed maturity securities available for sale were $1,168.2 million and $299.9 million as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Of the $1,168.2 million in gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2007, there were $9.5 million in losses attributed to securities scheduled to mature in one year or less, $107.3 million attributed to securities scheduled to mature between one to five years, $255.3 million attributed to securities scheduled to mature between five to ten years, $295.4 million attributed to securities scheduled to mature after ten years and $500.7 million related to mortgage backed and other ABS. The gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2007 were concentrated primarily in the Commercial mortgage backed securities, Financial Bank, Financial Other, Collateralized debt obligations Credit and Industrial Manufacturing sectors. The gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2006 were concentrated primarily in the Industrial Manufacturing, Financial Other, Commercial mortgage backed securities and Industrial Services sectors. 68 The following tables present our fixed maturity securities available for sale by investment grade and below investment grade and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses as of December 31, 2007 and 2006.  U.S. Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Quality December 31, 2007 Amortized cost Gross unrealized gains Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount (in millions) Investment grade: Public $ 27,966.9 $ 752.8 $ 577.5 $ 28,142.2 Private 14,027.8 410.3 496.3 13,941.8 Below investment grade: Public 1,149.9 27.4 63.8 1,113.5 Private 1,048.9 30.8 30.6 1,049.1 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ 44,193.5 $ 1,221.3 $ 1,168.2 $ 44,246.6  U.S. Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Quality December 31, 2006 Amortized cost Gross unrealized gains Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount (in millions) Investment grade: Public $ 26,995.7 $ 770.7 $ 201.5 $ 27,564.9 Private 12,292.4 469.5 87.3 12,674.6 Below investment grade: Public 1,070.5 44.2 6.0 1,108.7 Private 830.1 51.4 5.1 876.4 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ 41,188.7 $ 1,335.8 $ 299.9 $ 42,224.6  U.S. Invested Assets Unrealized Losses on Investment Grade Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Aging Category December 31, 2007 Public Private Total Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses (in millions) Three months or less $ 2,858.8 $ 71.9 $ 1,556.3 $ 36.0 $ 4,415.1 $ 107.9 Greater than three to six months 1,249.7 89.4 1,058.8 120.0 2,308.5 209.4 Greater than six to nine months 1,502.7 114.7 1,243.8 117.7 2,746.5 232.4 Greater than nine to twelve months 993.2 74.6 719.4 107.1 1,712.6 181.7 Greater than twelve to twenty four months 1,545.8 100.8 580.2 45.4 2,126.0 146.2 Greater than twenty four to thirty six months 3,054.3 104.5 1,114.9 57.8 4,169.2 162.3 Greater than thirty six months 617.9 21.6 354.2 12.3 972.1 33.9 Total fixed maturities, available for sale $ 11,822.4 $ 577.5 $ 6,627.6 $ 496.3 $ 18,450.0 $ 1,073.8 69  U.S. Invested Assets Unrealized Losses on Investment Grade Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Aging Category December 31, 2006 Public Private Total Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses (in millions) Three months or less $ 2,730.4 $ 17.6 $ 1,471.2 $ 9.1 $ 4,201.6 $ 26.7 Greater than three to six months 30.3 0.4 22.7 0.3 53.0 0.7 Greater than six to nine months 224.8 1.6 107.1 1.3 331.9 2.9 Greater than nine to twelve months 1,502.6 28.2 549.9 8.2 2,052.5 36.4 Greater than twelve to twenty four months 5,688.9 126.0 1,938.1 52.2 7,627.0 178.2 Greater than twenty four to thirty six months 843.4 22.9 365.5 10.2 1,208.9 33.1 Greater than thirty six months 101.5 4.8 113.9 6.0 215.4 10.8 Total fixed maturities, available for sale $ 11,121.9 $ 201.5 $ 4,568.4 $ 87.3 $ 15,690.3 $ 288.8  U.S. Invested Assets Unrealized Losses on Below Investment Grade Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Aging Category December 31, 2007 Public Private Total Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses (in millions) Three months or less $ 95.4 $ 4.0 $ 187.0 $ 5.5 $ 282.4 $ 9.5 Greater than three to six months 62.8 2.6 115.6 5.4 178.4 8.0 Greater than six to nine months 130.5 22.8 91.3 3.0 221.8 25.8 Greater than nine to twelve months 91.5 11.3 17.3 0.7 108.8 12.0 Greater than twelve to twenty four months 57.0 11.1 21.7 13.0 78.7 24.1 Greater than twenty four to thirty six months 138.3 11.4 72.9 2.1 211.2 13.5 Greater than thirty six months 16.5 0.6 26.6 0.9 43.1 1.5 Total fixed maturities, available for sale $ 592.0 $ 63.8 $ 532.4 $ 30.6 $ 1,124.4 $ 94.4  U.S. Invested Assets Unrealized Losses on Below Investment Grade Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Aging Category December 31, 2006 Public Private Total Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses (in millions) Three months or less $ 64.0 $ 0.2 $ 83.5 $ 0.5 $ 147.5 $ 0.7 Greater than three to six months Greater than six to nine months 38.7 1.0 38.7 1.0 Greater than nine to twelve months 56.6 1.3 56.6 1.3 Greater than twelve to twenty four months 152.8 3.5 117.8 3.0 270.6 6.5 Greater than twenty four to thirty six months 27.3 1.5 27.3 1.5 Greater than thirty six months 0.6 0.1 0.6 0.1 Total fixed maturities, available for sale $ 312.1 $ 6.0 $ 229.2 $ 5.1 $ 541.3 $ 11.1 Of total gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, $1,073.8 million and $288.8 million were related to investment grade securities, respectively. Gross unrealized losses related to below investment grade securities were $94.4 million and $11.1 million as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. 70  The following tables present the carrying amount and gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity securities available for sale, where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more as of December 31, 2007 and 2006.  U.S. Invested Assets Unrealized Losses on Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Aging Category December 31, 2007 Problem, potential problem, and restructured All other fixed maturity securities Total Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses (in millions) Three months or less $ $ $ 670.2 $ 240.2 $ 670.2 $ 240.2 Greater than three to six months 110.7 80.9 110.7 80.9 Greater than six to nine months 0.5 0.3 0.5 0.3 Greater than nine to twelve months Greater than twelve months Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ $ $ 781.4 $ 321.4 $ 781.4 $ 321.4  U.S. Invested Assets Unrealized Losses on Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Aging Category December 31, 2006 Problem, potential problem, and restructured All other fixed maturity securities Total Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses (in millions) Three months or less $ $ $ 0.7 $ 0.2 $ 0.7 $ 0.2 Greater than three to six months 0.3 0.2 0.3 0.2 Greater than six to nine months Greater than nine to twelve months Greater than twelve months Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ $ $ 1.0 $ 0.4 $ 1.0 $ 0.4 Gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity securities where the estimated fair value has been 20% or more below amortized cost were $321.4 million as of December 31, 2007, and $0.4 million as of December 31, 2006. There were no gross unrealized losses attributed to those securities considered to be "problem", "potential problem" or "restructured" as of December 31, 2007 and 2006. The following table presents the total carrying amount of our fixed maturity portfolio, as well as its problem, potential problem and restructured fixed maturities for the periods indicated:  U.S. Invested Assets Problem, Potential Problem and Restructured Fixed Maturities at Carrying Amount December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 ($ in millions) Total fixed maturity securities (public and private) $ 44,548.7 $ 42,423.8 Problem fixed maturity securities $ 13.1 $ 3.5 Potential problem fixed maturity securities 29.2 2.2 Restructured fixed maturity securities 5.9 11.2 Total problem, potential problem and restructured fixed maturity securities $ 48.2 $ 16.9 Total problem, potential problem and restructured fixed maturity securities as a percent of total fixed maturity securities .11 % .04 % Mortgage Loans Mortgage loans consist primarily of commercial mortgage loans on real estate. At December 31, 2007, commercial mortgage loans aggregated to $10,763.5 million. Commercial mortgage loans on real estate are generally reported at cost 71 adjusted for amortization of premiums and accrual of discounts, computed using the interest method and net of valuation allowances. Commercial mortgage loans held for sale are carried at the lower of cost or fair value, less cost to sell, and reported as mortgage loans in the statements of financial position. Commercial mortgages play an important role in our investment strategy by: providing strong risk adjusted relative value in comparison to other investment alternatives; enhancing total returns; and providing strategic portfolio diversification. As a result, we have focused on constructing a solid, high quality portfolio of mortgages. Our portfolio is generally comprised of mortgages with conservative loan to value ratios, high debt service coverages and general purpose property types with a strong credit tenancy. Our commercial loan portfolio consists of primarily non recourse, fixed rate mortgages on fully or near fully leased properties. The mortgage portfolio is comprised of general purpose industrial properties, manufacturing office properties and credit oriented retail properties. Credit extensions in the state of California accounted for 18% of our commercial mortgage loan portfolio as of December 31, 2007. We are, therefore, exposed to potential losses resulting from the risk of catastrophes, such as earthquakes, that may affect the region. Like other lenders, we generally do not require earthquake insurance for properties on which we make commercial mortgage loans. With respect to California properties, however, we obtain an engineering report specific to each property. The report assesses the buildings design specifications, whether it has been upgraded to meet seismic building codes and the maximum loss that is likely to result from a variety of different seismic events. We also obtain a report that assesses, by building and geographic fault lines, the amount of loss our commercial mortgage loan portfolio might suffer under a variety of seismic events. Our commercial loan portfolio is highly diversified by borrower. As of December 31, 2007, 33% of the U.S. commercial mortgage loan portfolio was comprised of mortgage loans with principal balances of less than $10.0 million. The total number of commercial mortgage loans outstanding as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 was 1,254 and 1,262, respectively. The average loan size of our commercial mortgage portfolio was $8.6 million as of December 31, 2007. We actively monitor and manage our commercial mortgage loan portfolio. Substantially all loans within the portfolio are analyzed regularly and are internally rated, based on a proprietary risk rating cash flow model, in order to monitor the financial quality of these assets. Based on ongoing monitoring, mortgage loans with a likelihood of becoming delinquent are identified and placed on an internal "watch list". Among criteria which would indicate a potential problem are: imbalances in ratios of loan to value or contract rents to debt service, major tenant vacancies or bankruptcies, borrower sponsorship problems, late payments, delinquent taxes and loan relief/restructuring requests. We review our mortgage loan portfolio and analyze the need for a valuation allowance for any loan which is delinquent for 60 days or more, in process of foreclosure, restructured, on the "watch list", or which currently has a valuation allowance. We categorize loans, which are delinquent, loans in process of foreclosure, and loans to borrowers in bankruptcy as "problem" loans. Potential problem loans are loans placed on an internal "watch list" for which management has concerns as to the ability of the borrower to comply with the present loan payment terms and which may result in the loan becoming a problem or being restructured. The decision whether to classify a performing loan as a potential problem involves significant subjective judgments by management as to the likely future economic conditions and developments with respect to the borrower. We categorize loans for which the original terms of the mortgages have been modified or for which interest or principal payments have been deferred as "restructured" loans. We also consider matured loans that are refinanced at below market rates as restructured. The valuation allowance for commercial mortgage loans includes a loan specific allowance for impaired loans and a provision for losses based on past loss experience believed to be adequate to absorb estimated probable credit losses. The changes in this valuation allowance are reported in net income on our consolidated statements of operations. Commercial mortgage loans on real estate are considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to contractual terms of the loan agreement. When we determine that a loan is impaired, a valuation allowance is established or a direct write down of the loan is recorded for the difference between the carrying amount of the mortgage loan and the estimated value. Estimated value is based on either the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at the loans effective interest rate, the loans observable market price or fair value of the collateral. When a valuation allowance is established, subsequent recoveries are charged to the valuation allowance and subsequent losses may be charged to the valuation allowance or as a direct write down of the loan. The determination of the calculation and the adequacy of the mortgage loan loss provision based on past experience and mortgage impairments are subjective. Our periodic evaluation and assessment of the adequacy of the provision for losses and the need for mortgage impairments is based on known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrowers ability to repay, the estimated value of the underlying collateral, composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions, loss experience and other relevant factors. The current portfolio statistics and past loss experience produced a provision for the Principal Life general account totaling $30.6 million. The evaluation of our impaired loan component of the allowance is subjective, as it requires estimating the amounts and timing of future cash flows expected to be received on impaired loans. Our financial position is sensitive to changes in estimated cash 72 flows from mortgages, the value of the collateral and changes in the economic environment in general. The valuation allowance increased by $10.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2007, and decreased by $1.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2006. The following table represents our commercial mortgage valuation allowance for the periods indicated:  U.S. Invested Assets Commercial Mortgage Valuation Allowance December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 ($ in millions) Beginning balance $ 32.2 $ 33.2 Provision 10.8 1.3 Release (0.2 ) (2.3 ) Ending balance $ 42.8 $ 32.2 Valuation allowance as % of carrying value before reserves .40 % .32 % The following table presents the carrying amounts of problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages relative to the carrying amount of all commercial mortgages for the periods indicated:  U.S. Invested Assets Problem, Potential Problem and Restructured Commercial Mortgages at Carrying Amount December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 ($ in millions) Total commercial mortgages $ 10,763.5 $ 10,090.3 Problem commercial mortgages(1) $ 35.8 $ 10.7 Potential problem commercial mortgages 14.5 9.1 Restructured commercial mortgages 14.8 6.8 Total problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages $ 65.1 $ 26.6 Total problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages as a percent of total commercial mortgages .60 % .26 % (1)Problem commercial mortgages includes one mortgage loan in foreclosure of $13.0 million as of December 31, 2007, and one mortgage loan in foreclosure of $10.6 million as of December 31, 2006. The loan in foreclosure as of December 31, 2007, is not the same mortgage loan that was in foreclosure as of December 31, 2006. Equity Real Estate We hold commercial equity real estate as part of our investment portfolio. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the carrying amount of equity real estate investment was $859.6 million and $801.4 million, or 1% of U.S. invested assets. Our commercial equity real estate is held in the form of wholly owned real estate, real estate acquired upon foreclosure of commercial mortgage loans and majority owned interests in real estate joint ventures. Equity real estate is categorized as either "real estate held for investment" or "real estate held for sale." Real estate held for investment totaled $777.2 million as of December 31, 2007, and $683.2 million as of December 31, 2006. The carrying value of real estate held for investment is generally adjusted for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. Such impairment adjustments are recorded as realized investment losses and accordingly, are reflected in our consolidated results of operations. For the year ended December 31, 2007 and for the year ended December 31, 2006, there were no such impairment adjustments. The carrying amount of real estate held for sale as of December 31, 2007 was $82.4 million. There was no valuation allowance at December 31, 2007. The carrying amount of real estate held for sale as of December 31, 2006 was $118.2 million, net of valuation allowance $4.7 million. Once we identify a real estate property to be sold and commence a plan for marketing the property, we classify the property as held for sale. We establish a valuation allowance subject to periodic revisions, if necessary, to adjust the carrying value of the property to reflect the lower of its current carrying value or the fair value, less associated selling costs. We use research, both internal and external, to recommend appropriate product and geographic allocations and changes to the equity real estate portfolio. We monitor product, geographic and industry diversification separately and together to determine the most appropriate mix. Equity real estate is distributed across geographic regions of the country with larger concentrations in the South Atlantic, West South Central and Pacific regions of the United States as of December 31, 2007. By property type, there is a concentration in office and industrial site buildings that represented approximately 56% of the equity real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2007. 73 Other Investments Our other investments totaled $1,391.4 million as of December 31, 2007, compared to $972.6 million as of December 31, 2006. Derivatives accounted for $1,067.3 million in other investments as of December 31, 2007. The remaining invested assets include equity method investments, which include properties owned jointly with venture partners and operated by the partners. International Investment Operations Of our invested assets, $4.1 billion were held by our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment as of December 31, 2007. Our international investment operations consist of the investments of Principal International. Principal Global Investors advises each Principal International affiliate on investment policies and strategies that are consistent with the products they offer. Due to the regulatory constraints in each country, each company maintains its own investment policies. As shown in the following table, the major categories of international invested assets as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, were fixed maturity securities, other investments and residential mortgage loans:  International Invested Assets December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 Carrying amount % of total Carrying amount % of total ($ in millions) Fixed maturity securities: Public $ 2,719.5 67 % $ 2,303.1 69 % Equity securities 52.7 1 51.9 2 Mortgage loans: Residential 558.6 14 522.0 16 Real estate held for investment 2.9 12.2 Policy loans 16.2 Other investments 727.2 18 438.1 13 Total invested assets 4,077.1 100 % 3,327.3 100 % Cash and cash equivalents 82.9 55.0 Total invested assets and cash $ 4,160.0 $ 3,382.3 Our other investments totaled $727.2 million as of December 31, 2007, compared to $438.1 million as of December 31, 2006. Investment in equity method subsidiaries and direct financing leases accounted for $455.6 million and $256.3 million, respectively, of other investments as of December 31, 2007. Investment in equity method subsidiaries and direct financing leases accounted for $262.7 million and $150.0 million, respectively, of other investments as of December 31, 2006. The remaining invested assets as of December 31, 2007 and 2006, are primarily related to derivatives and seed money.  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Market Risk Exposures and Risk Management Market risk is the risk that we will incur losses due to adverse fluctuations in market rates and prices. Our primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates, although we also have exposures to changes in equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. The active management of market risk is an integral part of our operations. We manage our overall market risk exposure within established risk tolerance ranges by using the following approaches: rebalance our existing asset or liability portfolios; control the risk structure of newly acquired assets and liabilities; or use derivative instruments to modify the market risk characteristics of existing assets or liabilities or assets expected to be purchased. Interest Rate Risk Interest rate risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse changes in interest rates. One source of interest rate risk is the inherent difficulty in obtaining assets that mature or have their rate reset at the exact same time as the liabilities they support. Assets may have to be reinvested or sold in the future to meet the liability cash flows in unknown interest rate environments. Also, there may be timing differences between when new liabilities are priced and when assets are purchased or procured that can cause fluctuations in profitability if interest rates move materially in the interim. A third source of interest rate risk is the prepayment options embedded within asset and liability contracts that can alter the cash flow profiles from what was originally expected. 74 One of the measures we use to quantify our exposure to interest rate risk is duration. To calculate duration, we project asset and liability cash flows. These cash flows are discounted to a net present value basis using a spot yield curve, which is a blend of the spot yield curves for each of the asset types in the portfolio. Duration is calculated by re calculating these cash flows, re determining the net present value based upon an alternative level of interest rates, and determining the percentage change in fair value. We manage interest rate risks in a number of ways. Differences in durations between assets and liabilities are measured and kept within acceptable tolerances. Derivatives are also commonly used to mitigate interest rate risk due to cash flow mismatches and timing differences. Prepayment risk is controlled by limiting our exposure to investments that are prepayable without penalty prior to maturity at the option of the issuer. We also require additional yield on these investments to compensate for the risk the issuer will exercise such option. Prepayment risk is also controlled by limiting the sales of liabilities with features such as puts or other options that can be exercised against the company at inopportune times. Duration Managed. Our exposure to interest rate risk stems largely from our substantial holdings of guaranteed fixed rate liabilities in our U.S. Asset Management and Accumulation segment. We actively manage the duration of assets and liabilities in these products by minimizing the difference between the two. We have established a maximum tolerance for this difference and seek to stay within this tolerance. As of December 31, 2007, the difference between the asset and liability durations on our primary duration managed portfolio was .01. This duration gap indicates that, as of this date, the sensitivity of the fair value of our assets to interest rate movements is less than that of the fair value of our liabilities. Our goal is to minimize the duration gap. Currently, our guidelines indicate that total duration gaps between the asset and liability portfolios should be within +/ 0.25. The value of the assets in this portfolio was $33,183.4 million as of December 31, 2007. Duration Monitored. For products such as whole life insurance and term life insurance that are less sensitive to interest rate risk, and for other products such as individual single premium deferred annuities, we manage interest rate risk based on a modeling process that considers the target average life, maturities, crediting rates and assumptions of policyholder behavior. As of December 31, 2007, the weighted average difference between the asset and liability durations on these portfolios was +.22. This duration gap indicates that, as of this date, the sensitivity of the fair value of our assets to interest rate movements is greater than that of the fair value of our liabilities. We attempt to monitor this duration gap consistent with our overall risk/reward tolerances. The value of the assets in these portfolios was $17,990.9 million as of December 31, 2007. Non Duration Managed. We also have a block of participating general account pension business that passes most of the actual investment performance of the assets to the customer. The investment strategy of this block is to maximize investment return to the customer on a "best efforts" basis, and there is little or no attempt to manage the duration of this portfolio since there is little or no interest rate risk. The value of the assets in these portfolios was $5,234.0 million as of December 31, 2007. Using the assumptions and data in effect as of December 31, 2007, we estimate that a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase in interest rates decreases the net fair value of our portfolio by approximately $36.3 million. The following table details the estimated changes by risk management strategy. The table also gives the weighted average duration of the asset portfolio for each category, and the net duration gap (i.e., the weighted average difference between the asset and liability durations). December 31, 2007 Risk Management Strategy Value of total assets Duration of assets Net duration gap Net fair value change (in millions) (in millions) Primary duration managed $ 33,183.4 3.53 (0.01 ) $ 3.3 Duration monitored 17,990.9 4.70 0.22 (39.6 ) Non duration managed 5,234.0 4.43 N/A N/A Total $ 56,408.3 $ (36.3 ) Our selection of a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase or decrease in interest rates is a hypothetical rate scenario we use to demonstrate potential risk. While a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase does not represent our view of future market changes, it is a near term reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. While these fair value measurements provide a representation of interest rate sensitivity, they are based on our portfolio exposures at a point in time and may not be representative of future market results. These exposures will change as a result of ongoing portfolio transactions in response to new business, managements assessment of changing market conditions and available investment opportunities. 75  Debt Issued and Outstanding. As of December 31, 2007, the aggregate fair value of long term debt was $1,423.6 million. A 100 basis point immediate, parallel decrease in interest rates would increase the fair value of debt by approximately $106.3 million. Debt is not recorded at fair value on the statement of financial position. December 31, 2007 Fair value (no accrued interest) 100 basis point change No change +100 basis point change (in millions) 8.2% notes payable, due 2009 $ 500.8 $ 493.2 $ 485.8 3.31% notes payable, due 2011 62.2 60.0 57.9 3.63% notes payable, due 2011 32.2 31.0 30.0 6.05% notes payable, due 2036 655.9 571.0 502.0 8% surplus notes payable, due 2044 118.9 110.3 101.2 Non recourse mortgages and notes payable 134.0 132.4 130.2 Other mortgages and notes payable 25.9 25.7 25.2 Total long term debt $ 1,529.9 $ 1,423.6 $ 1,332.3 Use of Derivatives to Manage Interest Rate Risk. We use various derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, including interest rate swaps, swaptions, futures, treasury lock agreements and options. We use interest rate swaps and futures contracts to hedge changes in interest rates subsequent to the issuance of an insurance liability, such as a guaranteed investment contract, but prior to the purchase of a supporting asset, or during periods of holding assets in anticipation of near term liability sales. We use interest rate swaps primarily to more closely match the interest rate characteristics of assets and liabilities. They can be used to change the sensitivity to the interest rate of specific assets and liabilities as well as an entire portfolio. We have also used these instruments to hedge the interest rate exposure in our CMBS operations. Occasionally, we will sell a callable investment type agreement and will use written interest rate swaptions to transform the callable liability into a fixed term liability. Foreign Currency Risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. This risk arises from foreign currency denominated funding agreements issued to non qualified institutional investors in the international market, foreign currency denominated fixed maturity securities and demand deposits purchased and our international operations. We estimate that as of December 31, 2007, a 10% immediate unfavorable change in each of the foreign currency exchange rates to which we are exposed would result in no material change to the net fair value of our foreign currency denominated instruments identified above because we effectively hedge foreign currency denominated instruments to minimize exchange rate impacts. The selection of a 10% immediate unfavorable change in all currency exchange rates should not be construed as a prediction by us of future market events, but rather as an illustration of the potential impact of such an event. Use of Derivatives to Manage Foreign Currency Risk. The foreign currency risk on funding agreements and fixed maturity securities is mitigated by using currency swaps that swap the foreign currency interest and principal payments to our functional currency. The notional amount of our currency swap agreements associated with foreign denominated liabilities as of December 31, 2007, was $4,351.7 million. The notional amount of our currency swap agreements associated with foreign denominated fixed maturity securities as of December 31, 2007, was $1,973.4 million. With regard to our international operations, we attempt to do as much of our business as possible in the functional currency of the country of operation. At times, however, we are unable to do so, and in these cases, we use foreign exchange derivatives to economically hedge the resulting risks. As of December 31, 2007, our operations in Chile had currency swaps with a notional amount of $24.1 million that are used to swap cash flows on U.S. dollar denominated bonds to a local currency. Chile also utilized currency forwards with a notional amount of $134.1 million in order to mitigate currency exposure related to bonds denominated in currencies other than Chilean pesos. Additionally, we may take measures to hedge our net equity investments in our foreign subsidiaries from currency risks. Currently, there are no outstanding net equity investment hedges. Equity Risk Equity risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse fluctuations in a particular common stock. As of December 31, 2007, the fair value of our equity securities was $586.2 million. A 10% decline in the value of the equity securities would result in an unrealized loss of $58.6 million. The selection of a 10% unfavorable change in the equity markets should not be construed as a prediction by us of future market events, but rather as an illustration of the potential impact of such an event. 76 We also have equity risk associated with (1) fixed deferred annuity products that credit interest to customers based on changes in an external equity index; (2) variable annuity contracts that have a GMWB rider that allows the customer to receive at least the principal deposit back through withdrawals of a specified annual amount, even if the account value is reduced to zero; (3) variable annuity contacts that have a GMDB that allows the death benefit to be paid, even if the account value has fallen below the GMDB amount; (4) investment type contracts in which the return is tied to an external equity index; and (5) investment type contracts in which the return is subject to minimum contractual guarantees. Use of Derivatives to Manage Equity Risk. We economically hedge the fixed deferred annuity product by purchasing options that match the products profile. We economically hedge the GMWB exposure using futures, options and interest rate swaps. We economically hedge the investment contract exposure to an external equity index using equity call options. Credit Risk Credit risk relates to the uncertainty associated with the continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments of principal and interest. Our ability to manage credit risk is essential to our business and our profitability. See Item 7. "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Investments" for additional information about credit risk. Use of Derivatives to Diversify or Hedge Credit Risk. We sometimes purchase credit default swaps to hedge credit exposures in our investment portfolio. We sell credit default swaps to offer credit protection to investors. If there is an event of default by the referenced name, we are obligated to pay the counterparty the referenced amount of the contract and receive in return the referenced security. We economically hedged credit exposure in our portfolio by purchasing credit default swaps with a notional amount of $63.4 million at December 31, 2007. We also utilized credit default swaps with a notional amount of $69.5 million at December 31, 2007, to economically hedge spread risk in our portfolio. We have credit exposure through credit default swaps with a notional amount of $200.0 million as of December 31, 2007, by investing $200.0 million in various tranches of synthetic collateralized debt obligations. In addition, we sold credit default swaps creating replicated assets with a notional amount of $801.9 million as of December 31, 2007. Derivative Summary Notional amounts are used to express the extent of our involvement in derivative transactions and represent a standard measurement of the volume of our derivative activity. Notional amount is not a quantification of market risk or credit risk and it may not necessarily be recorded on the statement of financial position. Notional amounts represent those amounts used to calculate contractual flows to be exchanged and are not paid or received, except for contracts such as currency swaps. Actual credit exposure represents the amount owed to us under derivative contracts as of the valuation date. The following tables present our position in, and credit exposure to, derivative financial instruments as of December 31, 2007 and 2006.  Derivative Financial Instruments Notional Amounts December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 Notional amount % of total Notional amount % of total ($ in millions) Interest rate swaps $ 18,627.3 62 % $ 12,365.5 55 % Foreign currency swaps 6,349.2 21 5,331.1 24 Embedded derivative financial instruments 2,088.9 7 1,679.4 8 Credit default swaps 1,134.8 4 1,550.9 7 Options 572.0 2 335.0 1 Swaptions 488.8 2 643.4 3 Currency forwards 361.9 1 342.7 2 Treasury lock agreements 150.0 1 Futures 57.7 55.0 Commodity swaps 40.0 20.0 Interest rate lock commitments 8.8 Total $ 29,870.6 100 % $ 22,331.8 100 % 77  Derivative Financial Instruments Credit Exposures December 31, 2007 December 31, 2006 Credit exposure % of total Credit exposure % of total ($ in millions) Foreign currency swaps $ 805.5 69 % $ 564.6 75 % Interest rate swaps 286.0 24 132.8 18 Options 64.4 5 31.0 4 Currency forwards 6.2 1 7.6 1 Credit default swaps 5.6 1 15.7 2 Commodity swaps 0.3 0.7 Total credit exposure 1,168.0 100 % 752.4 100 % Less: Collateral received (326.5 ) (197.5 ) Total $ 841.5 $ 554.9 The following table shows the interest rate sensitivity of our derivatives measured in terms of fair value. These exposures will change as a result of ongoing portfolio and risk management activities. December 31, 2007 Fair value (no accrued interest) Notional amount Weighted average term (years) 100 basis point change No change +100 basis point change ($ in millions) Interest rate swaps $ 18,627.3 6.36 (1) $ (186.1 ) $ (34.2 ) $ 112.2 Swaptions 488.8 6.96 (2) (46.7 ) (23.9 ) (11.5 ) Treasury lock agreements 150.0 0.04 (3) (9.3 ) (5.9 ) (3.7 ) Options 21.0 1.47 (2) 0.1 0.1 0.2 Futures 11.4 0.24 (3) (0.5 ) (0.1 ) 0.4 Total $ 19,298.5 $ (242.5 ) $ (64.0 ) $ 97.6 (1)Based on maturity date of swap. (2)Based on option date of swaption. (3)Based on maturity date. We use U.S. Treasury futures to manage our over/under commitment position, and our position in these contracts changes daily. Counterparty Risk In conjunction with our use of derivatives, we are exposed to counterparty risk, or the risk that the counterparty fails to perform the terms of the derivative contract. We actively manage this risk by: establishing exposure limits which take into account non derivative exposure we have with the counterparty as well as derivative exposure; performing similar credit analysis prior to approval on each derivatives counterparty that we do when lending money on a long term basis; diversifying our risk across numerous approved counterparties; limiting exposure to A+ credit or better; conducting stress test analysis to determine the maximum exposure created during the life of a prospective transaction; implementing credit support annex (collateral) agreements with selected counterparties to further limit counterparty exposures; and daily monitoring of counterparty credit ratings. All new derivative counterparties are approved by the Investment Committee. We believe the risk of incurring losses due to nonperformance by our counterparties is manageable. Effects of Inflation We do not believe that inflation, in the United States or in the other countries in which we operate, has had a material effect on our annual consolidated operations over the past five years; however, in the future we may be materially affected by inflation. 78   
 
Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Invested Assets Invested Assets Investment Income Yields by Asset Type U.S. Invested Assets U.S. Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities by Type of Issuer U.S. Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities by Credit Quality(1) U.S. Invested Assets Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities by Rating and Vintage U.S. Invested Assets Asset Backed Securities Home Equity by Rating and Vintage U.S. Invested Assets Corporate Fixed Maturity Securities by Salomon Industry U.S. Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Industry Category U.S. Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Industry Category U.S. Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Quality U.S. Invested Assets Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Quality U.S. Invested Assets Unrealized Losses on Investment Grade Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Aging Category U.S. Invested Assets Unrealized Losses on Investment Grade Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Aging Category U.S. Invested Assets Unrealized Losses on Below Investment Grade Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Aging Category U.S. Invested Assets Unrealized Losses on Below Investment Grade Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Aging Category U.S. Invested Assets Unrealized Losses on Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Aging Category U.S. Invested Assets Unrealized Losses on Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale by Aging Category U.S. Invested Assets Problem, Potential Problem and Restructured Fixed Maturities at Carrying Amount U.S. Invested Assets Commercial Mortgage Valuation Allowance U.S. Invested Assets Problem, Potential Problem and Restructured Commercial Mortgages at Carrying Amount International Invested Assets Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Derivative Financial Instruments Notional Amounts Derivative Financial Instruments Credit Exposures 
 
