Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following analysis discusses our financial condition as of December 31, 2008, compared with December 31, 2007, and our consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, and, where appropriate, factors that may affect our future financial performance. The discussion should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes to the financial statements and the other financial information included elsewhere in this Form 10 K. Forward Looking Information Our narrative analysis below contains forward looking statements intended to enhance the readers ability to assess our future financial performance. Forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that represent our beliefs concerning future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments, and contain words and phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," and similar expressions. Forward looking statements are made based upon managements current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects on us. Such forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those included in the forward looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties. Those risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to the risk factors listed in Item 1A. "Risk Factors." Overview We provide financial products and services through the following reportable segments: U.S. Asset Accumulation, which consists of our asset accumulation operations that provide retirement savings and related investment products and services. We provide a comprehensive portfolio of asset accumulation products and services to businesses and individuals in the U.S., with a concentration on small and medium sized businesses. We offer to businesses products and services for defined contribution pension plans, including 401(k) and 403(b) plans, defined benefit pension plans, nonqualified executive benefit plans and employee stock ownership plan consulting services. We also offer annuities, mutual funds and bank products and services to the employees of our business customers and other individuals. Global Asset Management, which consists of our asset management operations conducted through Principal Global Investors and its affiliates. Global Asset Management offers an extensive range of equity, fixed income and real estate investments as well as specialized overlay and advisory services to institutional investors. International Asset Management and Accumulation, which consists of Principal International, offers retirement products and services, annuities, mutual funds, institutional asset management and life insurance accumulation products through operations in Brazil, Chile, China, Hong Kong SAR, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Mexico and Singapore. Life and Health Insurance, which provides individual life insurance, group health insurance as well as specialty benefits in the U.S. Our individual life insurance products include universal and variable universal life insurance and traditional life insurance. Our health insurance products include group medical insurance and fee for service claims administration and wellness services. Our specialty benefit products include group dental and vision insurance, individual and group disability insurance and group life insurance. Corporate, which manages the assets representing capital that has not been allocated to any other segment. Financial results of the Corporate segment primarily reflect our financing activities (including interest expense), income on capital not allocated to other segments, inter segment eliminations, income tax risks and certain income, expenses and other after tax adjustments not allocated to the segments based on the nature of such items. Economic Factors and Trends The significant decline in the equity markets during 2008, which was partially offset by positive net cash flows, has led to decreases in our U.S. Asset Accumulation segments account values and our Global Asset Management segments AUM. Since account values and AUM are the base by which these businesses generate profits, the decline in account values and AUM has put pressure on our profits. In addition, the credit market disruptions in 2008 resulted in an increase in our realized capital losses, which are reflected in net income, and unrealized capital losses, which are reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income. In our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment, we continued to grow our business through organic growth in our existing subsidiaries and through new joint ventures and strategic acquisitions. Additionally, the global credit market disruptions, market illiquidity, and foreign currency depreciation during the second half of 2008 resulted in a decrease in our International Asset Management and Accumulation segments AUM and an increase in our unrealized capital losses, which are reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income. 36 In our Life and Health segment, we continue to shift the marketing emphasis of our individual life insurance business to universal life insurance products from traditional life insurance products. In our health insurance and fee for service businesses we continue to experience membership declines due to lower sales and higher lapses. Our specialty benefits insurance business is experiencing a slowdown in growth relative to prior years due to a combination of lower sales and higher lapses, as well as reduced growth in salaries and the number of covered lives of our existing customers. This slowdown is a direct reflection of the increasingly competitive marketplace and economic pressures facing our customers. Given the aforementioned market conditions, and our expectation that these very challenging financial and operating conditions, which have continued into 2009, will not improve significantly in the short term, we have built additional liquidity by increasing cash and cash equivalent holdings. Currently, new cash inflows are primarily being invested in cash, short term government backed securities and other liquid investments. As a result of increased cash holdings, current yields will be lower than historically experienced. This trend is expected to continue as long as market conditions remain strained and we continue to invest new cash inflows in cash and liquid investments. Profitability Our profitability depends in large part upon our: amount of AUM; spreads we earn on our policyholders general account asset accumulation business that result from the difference between what we earn and what we credit; ability to generate fee revenues by providing administrative and investment management services; ability to price our life and health insurance products at a level that enables us to earn a margin over the cost of providing benefits and the related expenses; ability to manage our investment portfolio to maximize investment returns and minimize risks such as interest rate changes or defaults or impairments of invested assets; ability to effectively hedge fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates on certain transactions and ability to manage our operating expenses. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The increasing complexity of the business environment and applicable authoritative accounting guidance requires us to closely monitor our accounting policies. Our significant accounting policies are described in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1, Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies." We have identified seven critical accounting policies that are complex and require significant judgment and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. A summary of our critical accounting policies is intended to enhance the readers ability to assess our financial condition and results of operations and the potential volatility due to changes in estimates and changes in guidance. The identification, selection and disclosure of critical accounting estimates and policies have been discussed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Valuation and Impairment of Fixed Income Investments Fixed Maturities, Available for Sale. Fixed maturity securities include bonds, mortgage backed securities and redeemable preferred stock. We classify our fixed maturity securities as either available for sale or trading and, accordingly, carry them at fair value in the consolidated statements of financial position. The fair values of our public fixed maturity securities are primarily based on market prices from independent pricing services. In addition, 21% of our invested asset portfolio is invested in fixed maturity securities that are private market assets, where there are no readily available market quotes to determine the fair market value. The majority of these assets are valued using a spread pricing matrix that utilizes observable market inputs. Securities are grouped into pricing categories that vary by asset class, sector, rating and average life. Each pricing category is assigned a risk spread based on studies of observable public market data or market clearing data from the investment professionals assigned to specific security classes. The expected cash flows of the security are then discounted back at the current Treasury curve plus the appropriate risk spread. Certain market events that could impact the valuation of securities include issuer credit ratings, business climate, management changes, litigation and government actions among others. Over the past several months, we have seen credit market disruption as the result of widening spreads and illiquid markets. Structured investment transactions where we rely on broker quotes have been particularly impacted given the thinly traded markets (approximately 1% of the fixed maturity securities portfolio). We have received broker quotes that are outside a normal range for historical spreads and, in our view, are generally conservative given the quality of the 37 underlying cash flows. Analysis has been performed to reconcile these external values to our view of the transaction. In certain circumstances, we have used our internal models in lieu of external values, as we have determined the internal value better reflects fair value. A rate increase based on the combined movement of interest rates and credit spreads of 100 basis points would produce a total value of approximately $33.7 billion, as compared to the recorded amount of $35.1 billion related to our fixed maturity, available for sale assets held by the Principal Life general account as of December 31, 2008. Given the recent unprecedented market disruption, a 100 basis point movement in the combined portfolio rate is reasonably likely. Investments classified as available for sale are subject to impairment reviews. When evaluating a fixed maturity security for impairment, we consider relevant facts and circumstances in evaluating whether a credit or interest related impairment is other than temporary. Relevant facts and circumstances considered include: (1) the extent and length of time the fair value has been below cost; (2) the reasons for the decline in value; (3) the financial position and access to capital of the issuer, including the current and future impact of any specific events and (4) our ability and intent to hold the security for a period of time that allows for the recovery of value which, in some cases, may extend to maturity. When it is determined that the decline in value is other than temporary the carrying value of the security is reduced to its fair value, with a corresponding charge to net income. There are a number of significant risks and uncertainties inherent in the process of monitoring impairments and determining if an impairment is other than temporary. These risks and uncertainties include: (1) the risk that our assessment of an issuers ability to meet all of its contractual obligations will change based on changes in the credit characteristics of that issuer; (2) the risk that the economic outlook will be worse than expected or have more of an impact on the issuer than anticipated; (3) the risk that our investment professionals are making decisions based on fraudulent or misstated information in the financial statements provided by issuers and (4) the risk that new information obtained by us or changes in other facts and circumstances lead us to change our intent to hold the security until it recovers in value. Any of these situations could result in a charge to net income in a future period. At December 31, 2008, we had $31,428.4 million in available for sale fixed maturity securities with gross unrealized losses totaling $8,317.3 million. Included in the gross unrealized losses are losses attributable to both movements in market interest rates as well as movement in credit spreads. Net income would be reduced by approximately $8,317.3 million, on a pre tax basis, if all the securities in an unrealized loss position were deemed to be other than temporarily impaired. Mortgage Loans. Mortgage loans consist primarily of commercial mortgage loans on real estate. At December 31, 2008, commercial mortgage loans aggregated to $11,279.3 million. Commercial mortgage loans are generally reported at cost adjusted for amortization of premiums and accrual of discounts, computed using the interest method and net of valuation allowances. Commercial mortgage loans held for sale are carried at the lower of cost or fair value, less cost to sell, and reported as mortgage loans in the statements of financial position. Commercial mortgage loans on real estate are considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to contractual terms of the loan agreement. When we determine that a loan is impaired, a loss is recognized for the difference between the carrying amount of the mortgage loan and the estimated value. Estimated value is based on either the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at the loans effective interest rate, the loans observable market price or fair value of the collateral. The determination of the calculation and the adequacy of the mortgage loan valuation allowance and mortgage impairments are subjective. Our periodic evaluation and assessment of the adequacy of the mortgage loan valuation allowance and the need for mortgage impairments is based on known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrowers ability to repay, the estimated value of the underlying collateral, composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions, loss experience and other relevant factors. The calculation for determining mortgage impairment amounts includes additional subjectivity, as it requires estimating the amounts and timing of future cash flows expected to be received on specific impaired loans. Thus, our financial position is sensitive to changes in estimated cash flows from mortgages, the value of the collateral and changes in the economic environment in general. The total valuation allowance can be expected to increase when economic conditions worsen and decrease when economic conditions improve. We have a large experienced commercial real estate staff centrally located in Des Moines, which includes commercial mortgage underwriters, loan closers, loan servicers, engineers, appraisers, credit analysts, research staff, legal staff, information technology personnel and portfolio managers. Experienced commercial real estate senior management adheres to a disciplined process in reviewing all transactions for approval on a consistent basis. The typical commercial mortgage loan for us averages in the upper 50 percent loan to value range at origination with a net operating income coverage ratio of 1.7 times the annual debt service and is internally rated A on a bond equivalent basis. Based on the most recent analysis, our commercial mortgage portfolio has an overall loan to value ratio of 62% with a 1.8 times debt service coverage. The large equity cushion and strong debt service coverage in our commercial mortgage investments will help insulate us from stress during times of weak commercial real estate fundamentals. 38 Derivatives We primarily use derivatives to hedge or reduce exposure to market risks. The fair values of derivative instruments are determined using either pricing valuation models that utilize market observable inputs or broker quotes. The valuation models consider projected discounted cash flows, relevant swap curves and appropriate implied volatilities. Additionally, we issue certain annuity contracts and other insurance contracts and have certain other obligations that include embedded derivatives that have been bifurcated from the host contract. The fair value of embedded derivatives in annuity contracts and other insurance contracts is calculated based on actuarial and capital market assumptions, including non performance risk, reflecting the projected cash flows over the life of the contract, and incorporating expected policyholder behavior. The accounting for derivatives is complex and interpretations of the applicable accounting standards continue to evolve. Judgment is applied in determining the availability and application of hedge accounting designations and the appropriate accounting treatment. Judgment and estimates are used to determine the fair value of some of our derivatives. Volatility in net income can result from changes in fair value of derivatives that do not qualify or are not designated for hedge accounting and changes in fair value of embedded derivatives. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Other Actuarial Balances Commissions and other costs (underwriting, issuance and agency expenses) that vary with and are primarily related to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance policies and investment contract business are capitalized to the extent recoverable. Maintenance costs and acquisition costs that are not deferrable are charged to net income as incurred. Amortization Based on Estimated Gross Profits. DPAC for universal life type insurance contracts, participating life insurance policies and certain investment contracts are amortized over the expected lifetime of the policies in relation to estimated gross profits. In addition to DPAC, the following actuarial balances are also amortized in relation to estimated gross profits or contract assessments. Sales inducement asset Sales inducements are amounts that are credited to the contractholders account balance as an inducement to purchase the contract. Like DPAC, the cost of the sales inducement is capitalized and amortized over the expected life of the contract, in proportion to estimated gross profits. Unearned revenue liability An unearned revenue liability is established when we collect fees or other policyholder assessments that represent compensation for services to be provided in future periods. These revenues are deferred and then amortized over the expected life of the contract, in proportion to estimated gross profits. Reinsurance asset or liability For universal life type products that are reinsured, a reinsurance asset or liability is established to spread the net reinsurance costs or profits in proportion to the estimated gross profits on the underlying business. Present value of future profits ("PVFP") This is an intangible asset that arises in connection with the acquisition of a life insurance company or a block of insurance business. PVFP is amortized over the expected life of the contracts acquired, in proportion to estimated gross profits. Additional benefit reserves These are additional liabilities that are established for annuity or universal life type contracts that provide benefit guarantees, or for contracts that are expected to produce profits followed by losses. The liabilities are accrued in relation to estimated contract assessments. At issue and each valuation date, we develop an estimate of the expected future gross profits. These estimated gross profits contain assumptions relating to mortality, morbidity, lapses, investment yield and expenses. As actual experience emerges, the gross profits may vary from those expected either in magnitude or timing, in which case a true up to actual occurs as a charge or credit to current net income. In addition, we are required to revise our assumptions regarding future experience as soon as the current assumptions are no longer actuarially credible. Both actions, reflecting actual experience and changing future estimates, can change both the current amount and the future amortization pattern of the DPAC asset and related actuarial balances. For individual variable life insurance, individual variable annuities and group annuities which have separate account U.S. equity investment options, we utilize a mean reversion methodology (reversion to the mean assumption), a common industry practice, to determine the future domestic equity market growth rate assumption used for the calculation of estimated gross profits. If actual annualized U.S. equity market performance varies from our 8% long term assumption, we assume different performance levels over the next 30 quarters such that the mean return is equal to the long term assumption over the mean reversion period. However, our mean reversion process generally limits assumed returns to a range of 4 12% during the mean reversion period. The 12% cap was reached during the third quarter of 2008. Therefore, we will not adjust the equity return assumption by the amount needed to result in a mean return equal to the long term assumption. 39  Internal Replacements. We review polices for modifications that result in the exchange of an existing contract for a new contract. If the new contract is determined to be an internal replacement that is substantially changed from the replaced contract, any unamortized DPAC and related actuarial balances are written off and acquisition costs related to the new contract are capitalized as appropriate. If the new contract is substantially unchanged, we continue to amortize the existing DPAC and related actuarial balances. Recoverability. DPAC and sales inducement assets are subject to recoverability testing at the time of policy issue and loss recognition testing on an annual basis, or when an event occurs that may warrant loss recognition. Likewise, PVFP is subject to impairment testing on an annual basis, or when an event occurs that may warrant impairment. If loss recognition or impairment is necessary, the asset balances are written off to the extent that it is determined that future policy premiums and investment income or gross profits are not adequate to cover related losses and expenses. Sensitivities. As of December 31, 2008, the net balance of DPAC and related actuarial balances was a $3,164.2 million asset. We perform sensitivity analyses to assess the impact that certain assumptions have on our DPAC and related actuarial balances. The following table shows the estimated immediate impact of various assumption changes on our DPAC and related actuarial balances. Estimated impact to net income (1) (in millions) Reducing the future equity return assumption by 1% $ (8.0 ) Reducing the future general account net investment return assumption by 0.5% (2) $ (48.8 ) Removing the mean reversion methodology from the estimated gross profit calculation $ (17.3 ) A one time, 10% drop in equity market values $ (11.8 ) Increasing all future lapse rate assumptions by 10% of the baseline assumption (3) $ (24.7 ) (1)Reflects the net impact of changes to the DPAC asset, sales inducement asset, unearned revenue liability, reinsurance asset or liability, PVFP and additional benefit reserves. (2)Net investment return represents net investment income plus net realized capital gains (losses). (3)This calculation reflects an increase in lapse rates only for products where increasing the lapse rate leads to a write down of the DPAC asset. Lapse rates were left unchanged for those products where an increase in lapse rates would lead to a write up of the DPAC asset. Amortization Based on Premium Paying Period. DPAC of non participating term life insurance and individual disability policies are amortized over the premium paying period of the related policies using assumptions consistent with those used in computing policyholder liabilities. Once these assumptions are made for a given policy or group of policies, they will not be changed over the life of the policy unless a loss recognition event occurs. As of December 31, 2008, these policies accounted for less than 10% of our total DPAC balance. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and other intangibles include the cost of acquired subsidiaries in excess of the fair value of the net tangible assets recorded in connection with acquisitions. Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized. Rather, they are tested for impairment on an annual basis during the fourth quarter each year or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. The process of evaluating goodwill and other intangibles with indefinite lives for impairment requires several judgments and assumptions to be made to determine the fair value, including the method used to determine fair value, discount rates, expected levels of cash flows, revenues and earnings, and the selection of comparable companies used to develop market based assumptions. Intangible assets that do not have indefinite lives are amortized as related benefits emerge and are reviewed periodically for indicators of impairment in value. If facts and circumstances suggest possible impairment, the sum of the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset is compared to the current carrying value of the asset. If the undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying value, an impairment loss is recognized for the excess of the carrying amount of assets over their fair value. For those products amortized as related benefits emerge, the most significant assumptions involved in the estimation of future benefits include surrender/lapse rates, interest margins and mortality. Despite the challenging economic environment, we did not recognize a material impairment in our 2008 consolidated statement of operations. Investment management contracts acquired in our 2006 purchase of WM Advisors, Inc. is the most material intangible asset included in our 2008 consolidated statement of financial position with a carrying value of $608.0 million. Higher than expected net cash flows and significantly lower than expected expenses more than offset lower than expected market returns on the underlying assets acquired. As a result, the fair value of this intangible asset as of December 31, 2008, was in excess of its carrying value. Although we did not recognize a material impairment in our 2008 consolidated statement of operations, we cannot predict certain future events that might 40 adversely affect the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets that totaled $375.5 million and $925.3 million as of December 31, 2008, respectively. Such events include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on our customer base, interest rate movements, further declines in the equity markets, the legal environment in which the businesses operate, or a material negative change in our relationships with significant customers. Additional information about impairments is described in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 4, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." Insurance Reserves Reserves are liabilities representing estimates of the amounts that will come due, at some point in the future, to or on behalf of our policyholders. U.S. GAAP, allowing for some degree of managerial judgment, prescribes the methods of establishing reserves. Future policy benefits and claims include reserves for traditional individual and group life insurance, accident and health insurance and individual and group annuities that provide periodic income payments, which are computed using assumptions of mortality, morbidity, lapse, investment performance and expense. These assumptions are based on our experience and are periodically reviewed against industry standards to ensure actuarial credibility. For long duration insurance contracts, once these assumptions are made for a given policy or group of policies, they will not be changed over the life of the policy. However, significant changes in experience or assumptions may require us to provide for expected future losses on a product by establishing premium deficiency reserves. Premium deficiency reserves may also be established for short duration contracts to provide for expected future losses. Our reserve levels are reviewed throughout the year using internal analysis including, among other things, experience studies, claim development analysis and annual statutory asset adequacy analysis. To the extent experience indicates potential loss recognition, we recognize losses on certain lines of business. The ultimate accuracy of the assumptions on these long tailed insurance products cannot be determined until the obligation of the entire block of business on which the assumptions were made is extinguished. Short term variances of actual results from the assumptions used in the computation of the reserves are reflected in current period net income and can impact quarter to quarter net income. Future policy benefits and claims also include reserves for incurred but unreported health, disability and life insurance claims. We recognize claims costs in the period the service was provided to our policyowners. However, claims costs incurred in a particular period are not known with certainty until after we receive, process and pay the claims. We determine the amount of this liability using actuarial methods based on historical claim payment patterns as well as emerging medical cost trends, where applicable, to determine our estimate of claim liabilities. We also look back to assess how our prior periods estimates developed. To the extent appropriate, changes in such development are recorded as a change to current period claim expense. Historically, the amount of the claim reserve adjustment made in subsequent reporting periods for prior period estimates was within a reasonable range given our normal claim fluctuations. Benefit Plans The reported expense and liability associated with pension and other postretirement benefit plans requires the use of assumptions. Numerous assumptions are made regarding the discount rate, expected long term rate of return on plan assets, turnover, expected compensation increases, health care claim costs, health care cost trends, retirement rates and mortality. The discount rate and the expected return on plan assets have the most significant impact on the level of cost. The assumed discount rate is determined by projecting future benefit payments inherent in the Projected Benefit Obligation and discounting those cash flows using a spot yield curve known as the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve. This curve is constructed from the Treasury curve by adding option adjusted spreads that are drawn from the double A corporate sector of the Salomon Broad Investment Grade Bond Index. The bonds with excessive call exposure are excluded, as are securities with option adjusted spreads that are more than two standard deviations away from the preliminary average. The final spreads are determined using this call protected sample of double A corporate bonds. Based on this methodology for 2008 year end, we set the discount rate at 6.00% as compared to 6.30% for 2007 year end. A 0.25% decrease in the discount rate would increase pension benefits Projected Benefit Obligation and the 2009 Net Periodic Pension Cost ("NPPC") by approximately $65.4 million and $9.7 million, respectively. A 0.25% decrease in the discount rate would increase other postretirement benefits Accumulated Postretirement Benefit Obligation and the 2009 Net Periodic Benefit Cost ("NPBC") by approximately $11.8 million and $1.3 million, respectively. A 0.25% increase in the discount rate would result in decreases in benefit obligations and expenses at a level generally commensurate with those noted above. The assumed long term rate of return on plan assets is set at the long term rate expected to be earned based on the long term investment policy of the plans and the various classes of the invested funds. Historical and future expected returns of multiple asset classes were analyzed to develop a risk free real rate of return and risk premiums for each asset class. The overall long term rate for each asset class was developed by combining a long term inflation component, the risk free real rate of return and the associated risk premium. A weighted average rate was developed based on long term returns for each asset class, the plans target asset allocation policy and the tax structure of the trusts. For the 2008 NPPC 41 and 2008 NPBC, an 8.25% and 7.30% weighted average long term rate of return was used, respectively. For the 2009 NPPC and 2009 NPBC, an 8.00% and 7.30% weighted average long term rate of return assumption will be used, respectively. A 0.25% decrease in the assumed long term rate of return would increase 2009 NPPC by approximately $2.5 million and the 2009 NPBC by approximately $0.9 million. A 0.25% increase in this rate would result in a decrease to expense at the same levels. The assumed return on plan assets is based on the fair market value of plan assets as of December 31, 2008. The compensation increase assumption is generally set at a rate consistent with current and expected long term compensation and salary policy, including inflation. Actuarial gains and losses are amortized using a straight line amortization method over the average remaining service period of employees, which is approximately 8 years for pension costs and approximately 13 years for other postretirement benefit costs. Prior service costs are amortized on a weighted average basis over approximately 6 years for both pension and other postretirement benefit costs. Income Taxes We provide for income taxes based on our estimate of the liability for taxes due. Our tax accounting represents managements best estimate of various events and transactions, such as completion of tax audits or establishment of, or changes to, a valuation allowance associated with certain deferred tax assets, which could affect our estimates and effective tax rate in a particular quarter or annual period. Inherent in the provision for income taxes are estimates regarding the deductibility of certain items, the timing of income and expense recognition and the current or future realization of capital losses and certain tax credits. The current economic environment has resulted in a significant increase in realized and unrealized losses on our fixed maturity securities. The corresponding deferred tax asset by taxing jurisdiction will more likely than not be fully realized considering our buy and hold investment philosophy for securities experiencing unrealized losses and available tax planning strategies that management is willing to implement for securities experiencing realized losses, if necessary. Our tax planning strategy is to sell various appreciated securities and other capital assets that if sold would result in sufficient capital gains to realize the deferred tax assets, thus minimizing the need for a valuation allowance. In the event our estimates of the ultimate deductibility of certain items, the timing of the recognition of income and expense or the current or future realization of capital losses and certain tax credits differ from prior estimates due to the receipt of new information, we may be required to significantly change the provision for income taxes recorded in the consolidated financial statements. Any such change could significantly affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements in the year these estimates change. A further significant decline in value of assets incorporated into our tax planning strategies could lead to an increase of our valuation allowance on deferred tax assets having an adverse effect on current and future results. In addition, the amount of income taxes paid is subject to audits in various jurisdictions. Tax benefits are recognized for book purposes when the more likely than not threshold is met with regard to the validity of an uncertain tax position. Once this threshold is met, for each uncertain tax position, we recognize in earnings the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement with the IRS or other income taxing authorities for audits ongoing or not yet commenced. We had $226.2 million and $251.5 million of current income tax receivables associated with outstanding audits reported as other assets in our consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. We believe that we have adequate defenses against, or sufficient provisions for, the contested issues, but final resolution of contested issues could take several years while legal remedies are pursued. Consequently, we do not anticipate the ultimate resolution of audits ongoing or not yet commenced to have a material impact on our net income. Transactions Affecting Comparability of Results of Operations Acquisitions We acquired the following businesses, among others, during the past three years: Morley Financial Services, Inc. On August 31, 2007, we acquired Morley Financial Services, Inc. ("Morley Financial Services") from Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company, for $75.0 million in cash. Morley Financial Services is a stable value asset manager with approximately $14.0 billion in institutional AUM at the time of purchase. The operations of Morley Financial Services are reported and consolidated in our Global Asset Management segment. WM Advisors, Inc. On December 31, 2006, we acquired WM Advisors, Inc. and its subsidiaries from Washington Mutual, Inc. for a total cost of $741.1 million in cash at the time of closing. As of December 31, 2006, WM Advisors, Inc. had approximately $28.0 billion in AUM and provided investment advisory services to mutual funds, variable trust funds 42 and asset allocation portfolios to approximately 800,000 shareholder accounts nationwide. The operations of WM Advisors, Inc. are reported and consolidated in our U.S. Asset Accumulation and Global Asset Management segments. Principal Global Services Private Limited. In December 2005, we formed Principal Global Services Private Limited ("PGS"), which began operations in Pune, India, as of August 2006. PGS employees perform services for our U.S. operations including claims data entry, 401(k) processing, information technology ("IT") coding/application development and IT quality assurance. PGS start up costs were reported in our Corporate segment through 2006. Beginning in 2007, expenses are allocated to the segments for which services are performed. Dispositions We entered into disposition agreements or disposed of the following businesses, among others, during the past three years: Post Advisory Group, LLC. Effective January 1, 2009, we sold certain asset management contracts within our Post Advisory Group, LLC subsidiary. The transaction does not qualify for discontinued operations treatment under U.S. GAAP. The realized capital gain from the sale, which will be reflected in our Global Asset Management segment, is not material. Principal Dental Services, Inc. Effective July 1, 2006, we sold five dental offices which were substantially all of the assets of Dental Net Group, one component of Principal Dental Services, Inc. The realized gain was reported in our Life and Health segment. Discontinued Operations. For divestitures that qualify for discontinued operations treatment, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 3, Discontinued Operations." Other Commercial Mortgage Securities Issuance Operation. During the third quarter of 2008, we made a decision to terminate our commercial mortgage securities issuance operation which does not qualify for discontinued operations treatment under U.S. GAAP. Therefore, the results of the terminated commercial mortgage securities issuance operation are still included in our consolidated income from continuing operations. As a result of our decision to terminate our commercial mortgage securities issuance operation, amounts previously included in our Global Asset Management segment operating earnings related to this operation have been removed from operating earnings for all periods presented and are reported as other after tax adjustments. Our commercial mortgage securities issuance operation had operating revenues of $(32.2) million, $30.1 million and $60.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively and after tax operating earnings (losses) of $(28.1) million, $5.7 million and $28.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. SBB Mutual Berhad and SBB Asset Management Sdn Bhd. On February 5, 2007, we invested an additional RM$192.4 million Malaysian ringgits ("RM$") (approximately U.S. $55.1 million) to retain our 40% ownership interest in CIMB Principal, our joint venture company in Malaysia, as a result of its decision to purchase the mutual fund and asset management companies of the former Southern Bank Bhd ("SBB") Mutual Berhad and SBB Asset Management Sdn Bhd. Senior Note Issuance. During fourth quarter 2006, we issued $600.0 million of senior notes. The notes bear interest at a rate of 6.05% per year. Interest on the notes is payable semi annually on April 15 and October 15, and began on April 15, 2007. The notes will mature on October 15, 2036. A portion of the proceeds was used to fund the acquisition of WM Advisors, Inc., with the remaining proceeds being used for general corporate purposes. Reinsurance Subsidiaries. In December 2008, Principal Life established a wholly owned insurance subsidiary, Principal Life Insurance Company of Iowa II, which reinsured a portion of our universal life "secondary" or "no lapse" guarantee provisions, through an intercompany reinsurance agreement with Principal Life. The reinsurance agreement, which is guaranteed by PFG, allows us to redeploy capital for other corporate purposes. In November 2006, Principal Life established a wholly owned reinsurance subsidiary, Principal Reinsurance Company of Vermont ("PVT"), which reinsured a portion of our universal life "secondary" or "no lapse" guarantee provisions as well as our current term product, through intercompany reinsurance agreements with Principal Life. The reinsurance agreements, which are accompanied with a third party letter of credit issued to PVT and guaranteed by PFG, allow us to redeploy capital for other general corporate purposes. Fluctuations in Foreign Currency to U.S. Dollar Exchange Rates Fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates for countries in which we have operations can affect reported financial results. In years when foreign currencies weaken against the U.S. dollar, translating foreign currencies 43 into U.S. dollars results in fewer U.S. dollars to be reported. When foreign currencies strengthen, translating foreign currencies into U.S. dollars results in more U.S. dollars to be reported. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations create variances in our financial statement line items but have not had a material impact on our consolidated income from continuing operations. Our consolidated income from continuing operations was positively impacted $6.1 million, $5.9 million and $5.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively, as a result of fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates for our foreign operations. For a discussion of our approaches to foreign currency exchange rate risk, see Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Foreign Currency Risk." Stock Based Compensation Plans For information related to our Stock Based Compensation Plans, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 20, Stock Based Compensation Plans." Defined Benefit Pension and 401(k) Expense The 2008 annual pension benefit expense that was reflected in net income for substantially all of our employees and certain agents was $12.3 million pre tax, which was an $11.8 million decrease from the 2007 pre tax pension expense of $24.1 million. This decrease is primarily due to the increase in discount rate and greater than estimated returns on plan assets. The expected long term return on plan assets assumption remained at 8.25%. The discount rate used to develop the 2008 expense was raised to 6.3%, up from the 6.15% discount rate used to develop the 2007 expense. The 2009 annual pension benefit expense for substantially all of our employees and certain agents is expected to be $157.6 million pre tax, which is a $145.3 million increase from the 2008 pre tax pension expense that was reflected in net income of $12.3 million. This increase is primarily due to much lower than expected asset returns and a decrease in our discount rate. The expected long term return on plan asset assumption was lowered to 8.0% based on a review of this assumption during 2008. The discount rate used to develop the 2009 expense was lowered to 6.0%, down from the 6.3% discount rate used to develop the 2008 expense. Recent Accounting Changes For recent accounting changes, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1, Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies." Results of Operations The following table presents summary consolidated financial information for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, Increase (decrease) 2008 2007 2006 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006 (in millions) Revenues: Premiums and other considerations $ 4,209.2 $ 4,634.1 $ 4,305.3 $ (424.9 ) $ 328.8 Fees and other revenues 2,426.5 2,634.7 1,902.5 (208.2 ) 732.2 Net investment income 3,994.3 3,966.5 3,620.6 27.8 345.9 Net realized capital gains (losses) (694.1 ) (328.8 ) 44.7 (365.3 ) (373.5 ) Total revenues 9,935.9 10,906.5 9,873.1 (970.6 ) 1,033.4 Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses 6,219.9 6,435.3 5,692.4 (215.4 ) 742.9 Dividends to policyholders 267.3 293.8 290.7 (26.5 ) 3.1 Operating expenses 2,995.1 3,129.2 2,558.7 (134.1 ) 570.5 Total expenses 9,482.3 9,858.3 8,541.8 (376.0 ) 1,316.5 Income from continuing operations before income taxes 453.6 1,048.2 1,331.3 (594.6 ) (283.1 ) Income taxes (benefits) (4.5 ) 208.1 295.9 (212.6 ) (87.8 ) Income from continuing operations, net of related income taxes 458.1 840.1 1,035.4 (382.0 ) (195.3 ) Income from discontinued operations, net of related income taxes 20.2 28.9 (20.2 ) (8.7 ) Net income 458.1 860.3 1,064.3 (402.2 ) (204.0 ) Preferred stock dividends 33.0 33.0 33.0 Net income available to common stockholders $ 425.1 $ 827.3 $ 1,031.3 $ (402.2 ) $ (204.0 ) 44  Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 Net Income Available to Common Stockholders Net income available to common stockholders decreased primarily due to a $248.4 million after tax increase in net realized capital losses. The change in net realized capital losses was primarily driven by higher impairments, net of recoveries from sales, on fixed maturity and equity securities and mark to market losses versus gains on fixed maturity and equity securities classified as trading. In addition, net income available to common stockholders for the U.S. Asset Accumulation segment decreased primarily due to a decline in account values in our full service accumulation business stemming from poor equity markets in 2008 and shifts in the mix of business. Total Revenues Premiums decreased $195.5 million for the Life and Health Insurance segment primarily due to a reduction in average covered medical members in our health insurance business. In addition, U.S. Asset Accumulation segment premiums decreased $187.6 million primarily due to a decrease in sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies within our full service payout business, which was partially offset by an increase in our individual payout annuities business primarily relating to increased sales of annuities with life contingencies. Fees decreased $244.9 million for our U.S. Asset Accumulation segment due to a decline in account values stemming from poor equity markets in 2008 and shifts in the mix of business. Net investment income increased due to a slight increase in the average annualized yield on invested assets and cash, which was 6.3% and 6.2% for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Net realized capital gains (losses) can be volatile due to mark to market adjustments of certain invested assets, other than temporary impairments of invested assets, and our decision to sell appreciated invested assets. Net realized capital losses increased primarily due to higher impairments, net of recoveries from sales, on fixed maturity and equity securities and mark to market losses versus gains on fixed maturity and equity securities classified as trading. For additional information, see "Investments Investment Results." Total Expenses Benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $189.6 million for the Life and Health Insurance segment, primarily due to a decrease in average covered medical members in our health insurance business. Operating expenses decreased $83.1 million for the Corporate segment, primarily due to a decline in amounts credited to employee accounts in a nonqualified defined contribution pension plan, which was offset by a corresponding reduction in net realized capital gains related to the assets backing this nonqualified plan. In addition, U.S. Asset Accumulation operating expenses decreased $69.6 million, primarily due to a comprehensive assumption study in our full service accumulation business that was completed during the third quarter of 2007, which resulted in the unlocking of our unearned revenue and DPAC assumptions and led to the recognition of previously deferred expenses in 2007. Income Taxes The effective income tax rates were 1% and 20% for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2008, was lower than the U.S. corporate income tax rate of 35% ("U.S. statutory rate") primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received, interest exclusion from taxable income and additional U.S. foreign tax credits resulting from the second quarter 2008 enactment of legislation to increase the Brazilian tax rate. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2007, was lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received and interest exclusion from taxable income. The effective income tax rate decreased to 1% from 20% for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, primarily due to an increase in our net realized capital losses with no proportionate change in permanent items, additional U.S. foreign tax credits resulting from the aforementioned Brazilian tax rate increase and tax refinements made in 2007 related to prior years. The net increase in deferred tax liabilities associated with the newly enacted Brazilian income tax rate is reflected in net investment income because the equity method of accounting is applied to our Brazilian operations; however, the benefit from additional U.S. foreign tax credits is reflected in income tax expense. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 Net Income Available to Common Stockholders Net income available to common stockholders decreased primarily due to a $240.0 million after tax change in net realized capital losses. The change in net realized capital losses was primarily driven by higher other than temporary impairments, net of recoveries, of fixed maturity securities and as well as higher mark to market losses on derivative activities. 45 Total Revenues Premiums increased $248.5 million for the U.S. Asset Accumulation segment primarily due to an increase in sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies within our full service payout business and an increase in our individual payout annuities business primarily relating to increased sales from certain distribution channels. In addition, Life and Health Insurance segment premiums increased $72.9 million primarily due to growth in our specialty benefits business. Fees increased $590.7 million for our U.S. Asset Accumulation segment due to higher management and distribution fees for Principal Funds stemming from an increase in average account values resulting from our December 31, 2006, acquisition of WM Advisors, Inc. In addition, fees from our full service accumulation business increased due to a comprehensive assumption study that was completed during the third quarter 2007 which resulted in the unlocking of our unearned revenue and DPAC assumptions and led to the recognition of previously deferred revenue. Net investment income increased due to a $3,376.8 million increase in average invested assets and cash and an increase in the annualized investment yield. The yield on average invested assets and cash was 6.2% for the year ended December 31, 2007, compared to 6.0% for the year ended December 31, 2006. Net realized capital gains (losses) can be volatile due to mark to market adjustments of certain invested assets, our decision to sell appreciated invested assets and other than temporary impairments of invested assets. Net realized capital losses increased primarily due to higher impairments, net of recoveries, on fixed maturity securities as well as higher mark to market losses on derivative activities. For additional information, see "Investments Investment Results." Total Expenses Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $416.4 million for the U.S. Asset Accumulation segment, primarily due to an increase in reserves related to higher sales of individual payout annuities and higher cost of interest credited related to a growing block in our individual annuities business. In addition, in full service payout, benefit reserves and expense increased primarily due to strong sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses also increased $201.1 million for the Life and Health Insurance segment, primarily due to growth in our specialty benefits business and due to higher medical costs and unfavorable prior year claim development in our health insurance business. U.S. Asset Accumulation operating expenses increased $461.4 million, primarily due to an increase within Principal Funds relating to higher costs associated with an increase in staff and infrastructure needed to support the growth in the business and the impact from the WM Advisors, Inc. acquisition. In addition, a $108.6 million increase from the Global Asset Management segment, primarily in our fee mandate business, was due to continued growth in staff and staff related costs as a result of continued growth in AUM and the acquisitions of Edge Asset Management and Morley Financial Services. Income Taxes The effective income tax rates were 20% and 22% for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2007, was lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received and interest exclusion from taxable income. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2006, was lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received, interest exclusion from taxable income and tax refinements in Mexico and Chile. Results of Operations by Segment For results of operations by segment see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 19, Segment Information." U.S. Asset Accumulation Segment U.S. Asset Accumulation Trends Account values are a key indicator of earnings growth for the segment, as account values are the base by which the segment generates its fee and spread based profits. Net cash flow and market performance are the two main drivers of account value growth. Net cash flow reflects the segments ability to attract and retain client deposits. Market performance reflects not only the equity market performance, but also the investment performance of fixed income investments supporting our spread business. The percentage growth in earnings of the segment should generally track the percentage growth in account values. This trend may vary due to changes in business and or product mix. 46 The following table presents the U.S. Asset Accumulation account value rollforward for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in billions) Account values, beginning of period $ 180.8 $ 163.3 $ 120.3 Net cash flow 5.0 6.7 6.9 Credited investment performance (37.6 ) 10.3 13.0 Other (2.1 ) 0.5 23.1 (1) Account values, end of period $ 146.1 $ 180.8 $ 163.3 (1)Includes $22.5 billion relating to the December 31, 2006, acquisition of WM Advisors, Inc. U.S. Asset Accumulation Segment Summary Financial Data The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the U.S. Asset Accumulation segment for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, Increase (decrease) 2008 2007 2006 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006 (in millions) Operating revenues: Premiums and other considerations $ 523.2 $ 710.8 $ 462.3 $ (187.6 ) $ 248.5 Fees and other revenues 1,455.1 1,691.4 1,105.9 (236.3 ) 585.5 Net investment income 2,820.1 2,748.0 2,538.8 72.1 209.2 Total operating revenues 4,798.4 5,150.2 4,107.0 (351.8 ) 1,043.2 Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses, including dividends to policyholders 2,711.5 2,812.6 2,392.1 (101.1 ) 420.5 Operating expenses 1,417.4 1,510.1 1,040.8 (92.7 ) 469.3 Total expenses 4,128.9 4,322.7 3,432.9 (193.8 ) 889.8 Operating earnings before income taxes 669.5 827.5 674.1 (158.0 ) 153.4 Income taxes 138.2 171.7 131.5 (33.5 ) 40.2 Operating earnings $ 531.3 $ 655.8 $ 542.6 $ (124.5 ) $ 113.2 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 Operating Earnings Operating earnings in our full service accumulation business decreased $95.1 million primarily due to a decrease in account values stemming from poor equity markets in 2008 and the shifts in mix of business. Furthermore, 2007 results benefited from the third quarter 2007 completion of a comprehensive assumption study, which resulted in the unlocking of our unearned revenue and DPAC assumptions and led to the recognition of a $30.1 million after tax operating earnings benefit. To a lesser extent, operating earnings were reduced by a decline in the tax benefits associated with the dividend received deduction stemming from a declining equity environment. In addition, operating earnings in our Principal Funds business decreased $18.7 million primarily due to lower management fees stemming from a decrease in average account values due to the poor equity markets in 2008. Operating Revenues Premiums in our full service payout business decreased $253.3 million primarily due to a decrease in sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies. The single premium group annuity product, which is typically used to fund defined benefit plan terminations, can generate large premiums from very few customers and therefore tends to vary from period to period. Partially offsetting this decrease was a $65.7 million increase in premiums from our individual payout annuities business due to increased sales of annuities with life contingencies. Fees in our full service accumulation business decreased $190.7 million primarily due to the third quarter 2007 completion of a comprehensive assumption study, which resulted in the unlocking of our unearned revenue assumptions and led to the recognition of previously deferred revenue in 2007. Furthermore, fees decreased due to a decline in account values stemming from poor equity markets in 2008 and shifts in the mix of business. Fees in our Principal Funds 47 business decreased $65.2 million primarily due to lower management and distribution fees stemming from a decrease in average account values due to poor equity markets in 2008. Net investment income increased primarily due to an $802.6 million increase in average invested assets and cash. Average annualized yield on invested assets and cash was 5.8% for both the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. Total Expenses Benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $252.8 million within our full service payout business primarily due to a decrease in single premium group annuity sales. In addition, our investment only business decreased $55.0 million primarily due to a decrease in cost of interest credited on this block of business resulting from a decrease in account values and lower crediting rates. Partially offsetting the decrease was a $190.4 million increase within our individual annuities business primarily due to an increase in cost of interest credited on fixed deferred annuities related to normal growth in the block and, to a lesser extent, an increase in reserves related to higher sales of individual payout annuities with life contingencies. Operating expenses in our full service accumulation business decreased $101.0 million primarily due to the third quarter 2007 completion of a comprehensive assumption study, which resulted in the unlocking of our DPAC assumptions and led to the recognition of previously deferred expenses in 2007. Also contributing to lower operating expenses were decreases in normal DPAC amortization due to lower current period earnings and lower asset management expense stemming from a decrease in account values. Operating expenses decreased $34.8 million within Principal Funds primarily due to lower asset based expenses stemming from a decrease in average account values, which resulted from poor equity markets in 2008. Partially offsetting the overall decrease was a $48.8 million increase in our individual annuities business primarily due to increased DPAC amortization expense on variable annuities as a result of the negative equity market performance experienced throughout 2008 and, to a lesser extent, increased expenses related to the normal growth in the block of fixed annuities. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate for the segment was 21% for both the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. The effective income tax rates were lower than the U.S. statutory rate, primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received and interest exclusion from taxable income. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 Operating Earnings Full service accumulation operating earnings increased $68.1 million primarily due to an increase in account values stemming from solid investment performance and strong net cash flows. In addition, the 2007 results benefited from the third quarter 2007 completion of a comprehensive assumption study, which resulted in the unlocking of our unearned revenue and DPAC assumptions and led to the recognition of an operating earnings benefit of $30.1 million after tax. Principal Funds operating earnings increased $23.4 million primarily due to higher net commission income and management fees stemming from an increase in sales and an increase in average account values. Operating Revenues Premiums in our full service payout business increased $140.0 million primarily due to an increase in sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies. The single premium group annuity product, which is typically used to fund defined benefit plan terminations, can generate large premiums from very few customers and therefore tends to vary from period to period. Premiums in our individual payout annuities business increased $108.5 million primarily due to increased sales from certain distribution channels. Fees in our Principal Funds business increased $346.0 primarily due to higher management and distribution fees stemming from an increase in average account values resulting from our December 31, 2006, acquisition of WM Advisors, Inc. Fees in our full service accumulation business increased $208.6 million primarily due to a comprehensive assumption study that was completed during the third quarter 2007, which resulted in the unlocking of our unearned revenue and DPAC assumptions and led to the recognition of previously deferred revenue. Higher fees generated from the increase in account values also contributed to the increase. Net investment income increased primarily due to a $3,097.4 million increase in average invested assets and cash. Average annualized yield on invested assets and cash was 5.8% for both the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. Total Expenses Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $195.9 million within our individual annuities business primarily due to an increase in reserves related to higher sales of individual payout annuities. Also, as a result of a growing block of 48 individual annuities, cost of interest credited on fixed deferred annuities increased. In addition, in full service payout, benefit reserves and expenses increased $141.9 million, primarily due to strong sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies. Furthermore, our investment only business increased $81.9 million primarily due to an increase in cost of interest credited on this block of business resulting from an increase in account values and higher crediting rates. Operating expenses increased $305.5 million within Principal Funds primarily due to higher costs associated with an increase in staff and infrastructure needed to support the growth in the business and the impact from the WM Advisors, Inc. acquisition. Operating expenses in our full service accumulation business increased $120.9 million primarily due to a comprehensive assumption study that was completed during the third quarter 2007, which resulted in the unlocking of our unearned revenue and DPAC assumptions and led to the recognition of previously deferred expenses. Also contributing to the increase was growth in the business, which drove increases in staff related costs and management fees paid. Income Taxes The effective income tax rates for the segment were 21% and 20% for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The effective income tax rates were lower than the U.S. statutory rate, primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received and interest exclusion from taxable income. Global Asset Management Segment Global Asset Management Trends While we have experienced success in winning institutional asset management mandates and expect to see continued growth in this area, the market conditions have impacted our overall AUM growth across all asset classes. Our third party AUM decreased $17.0 billion during 2008 primarily as a result of market performance. The following table provides a summary of Global Asset Managements affiliated and third party AUM as of December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006: Principal Global Investors As of Affiliated AUM Third party AUM Total AUM (in billions) December 31, 2008 $ 119.7 $ 70.3 $ 190.0 December 31, 2007 148.7 87.3 236.0 December 31, 2006 132.3 59.1 191.4 Global Asset Management Segment Summary Financial Data AUM is a key indicator of earnings growth for our Global Asset Management segment, as AUM is the base by which we generate revenues. Net cash flow and market performance are the two main drivers of AUM growth. Net cash flow reflects our ability to attract and retain client deposits. Market performance reflects equity, fixed income and real estate market performance. The percentage growth in earnings of the segment will generally track with the percentage growth in AUM. This trend may vary due to changes in business and or product mix. The following table presents AUM rollforward for assets managed by Global Asset Management for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in billions) AUM, beginning of period $ 236.0 $ 191.4 $ 144.5 Net cash flow 3.3 15.8 12.8 Investment performance (46.0 ) 12.5 13.7 Operations acquired (1) 13.7 22.6 Other (3.3 ) 2.6 (2.2 ) AUM, end of period $ 190.0 $ 236.0 $ 191.4 (1)Includes acquisition of Morley Financial Services in 2007 and acquisition of WM Advisors, Inc. in 2006. 49  The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the Global Asset Management segment for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, Increase (decrease) 2008 2007 2006 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006 (in millions) Operating revenues: Fees and other revenues $ 577.3 $ 536.8 $ 392.7 $ 40.5 $ 144.1 Net investment income 21.2 36.1 34.8 (14.9 ) 1.3 Total operating revenues 598.5 572.9 427.5 25.6 145.4 Expenses: Total expenses 453.2 414.4 314.7 38.8 99.7 Operating earnings before income taxes 145.3 158.5 112.8 (13.2 ) 45.7 Income taxes 50.9 55.7 39.0 (4.8 ) 16.7 Operating earnings $ 94.4 $ 102.8 $ 73.8 $ (8.4 ) $ 29.0 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 Operating Earnings Operating earnings in our spread business decreased $5.6 million primarily due to lower earnings as a result of lower investment income and loan volumes in 2008 compared to 2007. Operating earnings in our fee mandate business decreased $2.8 million as a decline in borrower fees and transaction fees from our real estate line of business was partially offset by an increase in management and performance fee revenues. Operating Revenues Fees in our fee mandate business increased $44.1 million due to higher management fees and performance fees despite the adverse market conditions, which have dampened our overall growth. In addition to the acquisition of Morley Financial Services, we continued to see growth in management fees from our fixed income and equity lines of business, however, borrower fees and transaction fees have decreased due to lower real estate activity. Partially offsetting the fee mandate business increase is a decrease in our spread business of $3.6 million due to lower loan origination fees in 2008 compared to 2007. Net investment income decreased $7.7 million in our spread business due to lower investment income earned on our loan portfolio. Net investment income decreased $7.2 million in our fee mandate business as a result of the declining interest rate environment. Total Expenses Total expenses increased $41.3 million in our fee mandate business due to growth in staff related costs, primarily as a result of incentive compensation paid on performance fees received during the fourth quarter of 2008, as well as the acquisition of Morley Financial Services in the third quarter of 2007. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate for the segment was 35% for both the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 Operating Earnings Operating earnings increased $28.9 million in our fee mandate business primarily due to strong net cash flows that drove an increase in AUM. Operating Revenues Fees increased $142.6 million in our fee mandate business due to continued growth in management fees across all lines of business, as a result of growth in AUM, in addition to the acquisition of Edge Asset Management and Morley Financial Services. Net investment income increased $1.5 million in our fee mandate business due to earnings on cash and other investments. 50 Total Expenses Total expenses increased $99.2 million in our fee mandate business due to growth in staff and staff related costs as a result of continued growth in AUM and the acquisitions of Edge Asset Management and Morley Financial Services. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate for the segment was 35% for both the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006. International Asset Management and Accumulation Segment International Asset Management and Accumulation Trends Our international asset management and accumulation businesses focus on countries with favorable demographics and growing long term savings and defined contribution markets. With variations depending upon the specific country, we have targeted these markets for sales of retirement and related products and services, including defined contribution pension plans, annuities and mutual funds to businesses and individuals. In some of our international markets, we complement our sales of these products with institutional asset management and life insurance accumulation products. We have pursued our international strategy through a combination of start ups, acquisitions and joint ventures, which require infusions of capital consistent with our strategy of long term growth and profitability. International Asset Management and Accumulation Segment Summary Financial Data AUM is a key indicator of earnings growth for the segment, as AUM is the base by which we can generate profits. Net cash flow and market performance are the two main drivers of AUM growth. Net cash flow reflects our ability to attract and retain client deposits. Market performance reflects the investment returns on our underlying AUM. The percentage growth in the earnings of our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment will generally track with the percentage growth in AUM. This trend may vary due to changes in business and or product mix. Our financial results are also impacted by fluctuations of the foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates for the countries in which we have business. The following table presents the International Asset Management and Accumulation AUM rollforward for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in billions) AUM, beginning of period $ 28.7 $ 19.1 $ 15.4 Net cash flow 1.0 2.1 2.0 Investment performance (1.6 ) 3.0 2.0 Effect of exchange rates (5.0 ) 2.3 0.1 Other (1) 2.2 (0.4 ) AUM, end of period $ 23.1 $ 28.7 $ 19.1 (1)Other increases to AUM include $2.2 billion from our SBB acquisition in Malaysia in 2007. 51 The following table presents certain summary financial data of the International Asset Management and Accumulation segment for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, Increase (decrease) 2008 2007 2006 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006 (in millions) Operating revenues: Premiums and other considerations $ 204.1 $ 246.4 $ 239.1 $ (42.3 ) $ 7.3 Fees and other revenues 123.1 136.4 114.0 (13.3 ) 22.4 Net investment income 521.8 413.5 252.3 108.3 161.2 Total operating revenues 849.0 796.3 605.4 52.7 190.9 Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses 586.6 526.7 399.1 59.9 127.6 Operating expenses 150.6 141.4 144.5 9.2 (3.1 ) Total expenses 737.2 668.1 543.6 69.1 124.5 Operating earnings before income taxes 111.8 128.2 61.8 (16.4 ) 66.4 Income taxes (benefits) (14.5 ) 17.5 (10.0 ) (32.0 ) 27.5 Operating earnings $ 126.3 $ 110.7 $ 71.8 $ 15.6 $ 38.9 Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 Operating Earnings Operating earnings in our equity method investment in Brazil increased $11.1 million primarily due to the strengthening of the Brazilian real versus the U.S. dollar, coupled with pricing changes resulting in higher fees and net unlocking and true up adjustments that lowered DPAC and PVFP amortization. Operating earnings in Chile increased $6.1 million primarily due to higher inflation based investment returns net of interest crediting to customers. Operating Revenues Premiums in Chile decreased $40.6 million primarily due to lower sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies. Fees and other revenues decreased $10.0 million primarily due to lower AUM and reduced fee charges for our operations in India. In addition, fees and other revenues decreased $4.0 million in Chile due to 2008 unlocking adjustments, which lowered unearned revenue accruals, and lower AUM. Net investment income increased primarily due to a higher annualized yield on average invested assets and cash, excluding our equity method investments, due to larger inflation based investment returns in Chile. The annualized yield on average invested assets and cash, excluding our equity method investments, was 13.8% and 10.3% for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Total Expenses Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $54.4 million in Chile, primarily due to higher interest crediting rates in 2008, which was partially offset by a lower change in reserve expense associated with decreased sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies. Operating expenses in Mexico increased $13.8 million primarily due to net unlocking and true up adjustments resulting in lower DPAC and PVFP amortization in 2007 related to enacted legislation. This increase in operating expenses was partially offset by lower compensation costs for our corporate headquarters. Income Taxes The effective income tax rates for the segment were 13% and 14% for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2008, was lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to additional U.S. foreign tax credits resulting from the second quarter 2008 enactment of legislation to increase the Brazilian tax rate, taxes on our share of earnings generated from our equity method investments being reflected in net investment income and the lower tax rates of foreign jurisdictions. The Brazilian tax rate change caused a one time increase in the net deferred tax liabilities within our equity method investment during the second quarter that was offset by U.S. foreign tax credits, which reduced income tax expenses. There was no total impact to operating earnings. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2007, was lower than the U.S. statutory rate 52 primarily due to taxes on our share of earnings generated from our equity method investments that are included in net investment income and the lower tax rates of foreign jurisdictions. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 Operating Earnings Operating earnings increased $19.5 million primarily due to higher earnings from our equity method investments in Brazil and China and the strengthening of the Brazilian real versus the U.S. dollar. Operating earnings in Chile and Hong Kong increased primarily due to higher annualized investment yields in Chile and growth in AUM in Hong Kong and Chile. Operating Revenues Premiums in Chile increased $31.0 million primarily due to higher sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies. This increase was partially offset by a $23.7 million decrease in Mexico resulting from lower sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies due to our decision to not sell these annuities in Mexico in 2007 due to unfavorable market conditions. Fees and other revenues in our Hong Kong, Chile and India operations increased primarily due to growth in AUM in these countries. In addition, fees and other revenues increased in Hong Kong due to performance based fees. Net investment income increased primarily due to a higher annualized yield on average invested assets and cash, excluding our equity method investments, and to a lesser extent due to a $418.0 million increase in average invested assets and cash, excluding our equity method investments, coupled with higher earnings from our equity method subsidiaries in Brazil, China and Malaysia. The annualized yield on average invested assets and cash, excluding our equity method investments, was 10.3% for the year ended December 31, 2007, compared to 7.1% for the year ended December 31, 2006. Total Expenses Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $152.1 million in Chile, primarily due to higher interest crediting rates in 2007 and increased sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies. Operating expenses within our Mexican operations decreased $20.9 million primarily due to the unlocking of assumptions surrounding PVFP related to newly enacted legislation of the mandatory privatized social security system. This decrease was partially offset by higher operating expenses in our other international operations due to continued growth. Income Taxes The effective income tax rates for the segment were 14% and 16% for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2007, was lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to taxes on our share of earnings generated from our equity method investments that are included in net investment income and the lower tax rates of foreign jurisdictions. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2006, was lower than the U.S. statutory rate, primarily due to tax refinements in Mexico and Chile and taxes on our share of earnings generated from our equity method investments that are included in net investment income. Life and Health Insurance Segment Individual Life Insurance Trends Our life insurance premiums are influenced by both economic and industry trends. In addition, we have experienced increased sales of universal and variable universal life insurance as we continue to shift our marketing emphasis to universal life insurance products from traditional life insurance products. Due to this shift in marketing emphasis, premiums related to our traditional life insurance products have declined, while fee revenues from our universal and variable universal life insurance products have grown. 53 The following table provides a summary of our individual universal and variable universal life insurance fee revenues and our individual traditional life insurance premiums for the years indicated: Universal and variable universal life insurance Traditional life insurance For the year ended Fee revenues Premiums (in millions) December 31, 2008 $ 338.8 $ 591.7 December 31, 2007 282.6 611.7 December 31, 2006 225.3 624.4 The following table provides a summary of our individual life insurance policyholder liabilities for the years indicated: Universal and variable universal life insurance Traditional life insurance As of Policyholder liabilities(1) Policyholder liabilities (in millions) December 31, 2008 $ 4,692.5 $ 5,856.7 December 31, 2007 4,544.2 5,910.9 December 31, 2006 3,948.6 5,921.5 (1)Includes separate account liabilities for policies with variable investment options. Health Insurance Trends In our health insurance and fee for service businesses, we continue to experience membership declines due to lower sales and higher lapses. Our health insurance premium and fees were as follows for the years indicated: Premium and fees For the year ended Group medical insurance Fee for service (in millions) December 31, 2008 $ 1,617.0 $ 143.0 December 31, 2007 1,808.7 167.3 December 31, 2006 1,861.4 172.5 Our covered medical members were as follows for the years indicated: Covered medical members As of Group medical insurance Fee for service (in thousands) December 31, 2008 449.3 543.9 December 31, 2007 566.1 669.2 December 31, 2006 642.5 758.0 Specialty Benefits Insurance Trends Premium and fee growth for the individual disability line of our specialty benefits insurance business is being driven by solid sales and retention, while growth of the group lines has slowed compared to prior years as we maintain pricing discipline in a very competitive environment. 54 The following table provides a summary of our specialty benefits insurance premium and fees for the years indicated: Premium and fees For the year ended Group dental and vision insurance Group life insurance Group disability insurance Individual disability insurance (in millions) December 31, 2008 $ 557.3 $ 348.2 $ 303.5 $ 172.6 December 31, 2007 541.0 344.2 304.6 160.0 December 31, 2006 496.3 310.4 254.9 141.6 Life and Health Insurance Segment Summary Financial Data There are several key indicators for earnings growth in our Life and Health insurance business. The ability of our distribution channels to generate new sales and retain existing business drives growth in our block of business, premium revenue and fee revenues. Our earnings growth also depends on our ability to price our products at a level that enables us to earn a margin over the cost of providing benefits and the expense of acquiring and administering those products. Factors impacting pricing decisions include competitive conditions, persistency, our ability to assess and manage trends in mortality and morbidity experience and our ability to manage operating expenses. The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the Life and Health Insurance segment for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, Increase (decrease) 2008 2007 2006 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006 (in millions) Operating revenues: Premiums and other considerations $ 3,476.1 $ 3,671.6 $ 3,598.7 $ (195.5 ) $ 72.9 Fees and other revenues 528.9 495.4 444.2 33.5 51.2 Net investment income 677.0 690.1 693.3 (13.1 ) (3.2 ) Total operating revenues 4,682.0 4,857.1 4,736.2 (175.1 ) 120.9 Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses 2,909.0 3,110.2 2,910.3 (201.2 ) 199.9 Dividends to policyholders 265.7 290.1 290.3 (24.4 ) (0.2 ) Operating expenses 1,104.7 1,129.5 1,110.8 (24.8 ) 18.7 Total expenses 4,279.4 4,529.8 4,311.4 (250.4 ) 218.4 Operating earnings before income taxes 402.6 327.3 424.8 75.3 (97.5 ) Income taxes 132.2 106.2 142.3 26.0 (36.1 ) Operating earnings $ 270.4 $ 221.1 $ 282.5 $ 49.3 $ (61.4 ) Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 Operating Earnings Operating earnings in our health insurance business increased $27.6 million primarily due to favorable prior year claim developments in 2008 compared to unfavorable prior year claim development in 2007. At the end of a reporting period, we recognize a liability for the estimate of claims incurred but not reported. In subsequent periods, an adjustment to prior period claim development is made to reflect actual or updated estimates of incurred claims. Operating earnings in our specialty benefits insurance business increased $18.3 million, primarily due to favorable claims experience in our disability businesses. Operating earnings in our individual life insurance business increased $3.4 million due to updating the dividend scale to reflect the experience of the Closed Block and growth in the business, partially offset by an increase in DPAC amortization. Operating Revenues Premiums decreased $189.1 million in our health insurance business, as a reduction in average covered medical members was partially offset by an increase in premium per member. Premiums decreased $36.9 million in our individual life insurance business due to the expected continued decline from the decreasing block of traditional life insurance business. These decreases were partially offset by a $30.5 million increase in our specialty benefits insurance business due to growth in the individual disability line of business and dental trend (premium increase resulting from higher costs and utilization). 55 Fees and other revenues increased $58.6 million in our individual life insurance business due to growth in the universal life and variable universal life lines of business. This increase in fees more than offset the decline in individual life insurance premiums. Partially offsetting this increase in fees and other revenues was a $26.9 million decrease in our health insurance business, largely due to a change in classification in 2008 of the reimbursement of certain pass through expenses, which removed them from both fee revenues and operating expenses, and a decrease in average fee for service medical members. Total Expenses Benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $216.2 million in our health insurance business due to a decrease in average covered medical members and favorable prior period claim development in 2008 compared to unfavorable prior year claim development in 2007. Dividends to policyholders decreased $24.4 million, primarily from updating the policyholder dividend scale to reflect the experience of the Closed Block. Operating expenses decreased $53.2 million in our health insurance business due to actively managing to lower expenses associated with a decline in insured medical and fee for service members and due to a change in classification in 2008 of the reimbursement of certain pass through expenses, removing them from both fee revenues and operating expenses. Partially offsetting this decrease was a $15.9 million increase in our individual life insurance business primarily related to higher DPAC amortization due to reduced equity market performance and worse mortality experience. Individual life insurance operating expenses also increased due to sales growth. Additionally, operating expenses increased $12.0 million in our specialty benefits insurance business in line with moderate growth in the business. Income Taxes The effective income tax rates for the segment were 33% and 32% for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The effective income tax rates were lower than the U.S. statutory rate as a result of interest exclusion from taxable income and income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received. Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 Operating Earnings Operating earnings in our health insurance business decreased $47.7 million due to increases in the cost of medical care, unfavorable prior year claim developments and an overall decline in covered members. These increases in cost were partially offset by increases in premium per member and lower operating expense ratios in our health insurance business Operating earnings in our individual life insurance business decreased $18.8 million, due to favorable DPAC adjustments in 2006 compared to unfavorable DPAC adjustments in 2007, coupled with a decrease in investment income from a lower asset base related to capital reductions, which more than offset growth in the universal life and variable universal life businesses. Operating earnings in our specialty benefits insurance business increased $5.1 million, as growth in premiums and improvement in expense ratios were partially offset by higher loss ratios. Operating Revenues Premiums increased $149.0 million in our specialty benefits insurance business primarily due to growth in the business resulting from solid sales and retention in all product lines. Premiums decreased $52.7 million in our health insurance business as a reduction in covered members was partially offset by an increase in premium per member. Furthermore, premiums decreased $23.4 million in our individual life insurance business due to the expected continued decline from the decreasing block of traditional life insurance business. Fees and other revenues increased $59.7 million in our individual life insurance business due to growth in the universal life and variable universal life lines of business. This increase in fees more than offset the decline in individual life insurance premiums. Total Expenses Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $132.4 million in our specialty benefits insurance business primarily due to growth in the business. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $51.2 million in our health insurance business, as higher claims costs per member and unfavorable prior year claim development were partially offset by a decrease in covered members. Operating expenses increased $40.1 million in our individual life insurance business primarily due to an increase in DPAC amortization, which was largely the result of unfavorable unlocking relative to 2006 and higher amortization in 2007 due to growth in the business and higher lapses early in the year. Operating expenses increased $14.8 million in our specialty benefits insurance business due to continued growth in the business. Operating expenses decreased 56 $36.2 million in our health insurance business primarily due to staff and other reductions associated with the decline in insured medical and fee for service medical covered members. Income Taxes The effective income tax rates for the segment were 32% and 33% for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The effective income tax rates were lower than the U.S. statutory rate as a result of interest exclusion from taxable income and income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received. Corporate Segment Corporate Segment Summary Financial Data The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the Corporate segment for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, Increase (decrease) 2008 2007 2006 2008 vs. 2007 2007 vs. 2006 (in millions) Operating revenues: Total operating revenues $ (202.8 ) $ (156.8 ) $ (110.9 ) $ (46.0 ) $ (45.9 ) Expenses: Total expenses (113.2 ) (120.8 ) (94.9 ) 7.6 (25.9 ) Operating loss before income taxes and preferred stock dividends (89.6 ) (36.0 ) (16.0 ) (53.6 ) (20.0 ) Income tax benefits (42.9 ) (31.3 ) (21.7 ) (11.6 ) (9.6 ) Preferred stock dividends 33.0 33.0 33.0 Operating loss $ (79.7 ) $ (37.7 ) $ (27.3 ) $ (42.0 ) $ (10.4 ) Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 Operating Loss Operating loss increased primarily due to a decline in average annualized investment yields and to a smaller extent by a decrease in average invested assets for the segment. The decline in average annualized investment yields was primarily due to a decrease in earnings from equity real estate investments and an increase in losses from certain equity method partnership interests. Operating Revenues Operating revenues decreased due to a decline in average annualized investment yields, resulting mostly from above average gains on equity real estate sales activity in the prior year, as well as lower earnings on certain equity method partnership interests where the underlying assets are marked to market. In addition, operating revenues decreased due to lower average invested assets for the segment. These decreases were offset in part by lower investment expenses due to the unwinding of our variable interest in a synthetic fuel production facility in 2008, as well as a decrease in inter segment eliminations included in this segment, which was offset by a corresponding change in total expenses. Total Expenses Total expenses increased due to higher interest expense related to federal income tax activities and interest expense on corporate debt. In addition, total expenses increased due to a decrease in inter segment eliminations included in this segment, which was offset by a corresponding change in operating revenues. These increases were partially offset by a decline in amounts credited to employee accounts in a nonqualified defined contribution pension plan. Income Taxes Income tax benefits increased due to an increase in operating loss before income taxes. Also contributing to the increased income tax benefits was the release of state deferred income tax liabilities associated with the reorganization of certain subsidiaries in 2008. The increased income tax benefits were offset in part by the reduction of synthetic fuel tax credits due to their expiration as of December 31, 2007. 57  Year Ended December 31, 2007 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2006 Operating Loss Operating loss increased primarily due to higher interest expense, largely related to the issuance of corporate debt in the fourth quarter of 2006, partially offset by higher annualized investment yields driven by the joint venture real estate portfolio. Operating Revenues Operating revenues decreased primarily due to an increase in inter segment eliminations included in this segment, which was offset by a corresponding change in total expenses. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in average annualized investment yields driven by the joint venture real estate portfolio. Total Expenses Total expenses decreased primarily due to an increase in inter segment eliminations included in this segment, which was offset by a corresponding change in operating revenues. This decrease was partially offset by an increase in interest expense on corporate debt and interest expense related to federal income tax activities. Income Taxes Income tax benefits increased primarily due to an increase in operating loss before income taxes. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity and capital resources represent the overall strength of a company and its ability to generate strong cash flows, borrow funds at a competitive rate and raise new capital to meet operating and growth needs. Our legal entity structure has an impact on our ability to meet cash flow needs as an organization. Following is a simplified organizational structure. Liquidity Our liquidity requirements have been and will continue to be met by funds from consolidated operations as well as the issuance of commercial paper, common stock, debt or other capital securities and borrowings from credit facilities. We believe that cash flows from these sources are sufficient to satisfy the current liquidity requirements of our operations, including reasonably foreseeable contingencies. However, there can be no assurance that future experience regarding benefits and surrenders will be similar to historic experience or our forecasts of reasonably possible liquidity scenarios, since benefits and surrender levels are influenced by such factors as the interest rate environment, our claims paying ability and our financial strength ratings. We maintain a level of cash and securities which, combined with expected cash inflows from investments and operations, is believed to be adequate to meet anticipated short term and long term benefit and expense payment obligations. However, withdrawal and surrender levels may differ from anticipated levels for a variety of reasons. In the event our current internal sources of liquidity do not satisfy our needs, we may have to seek additional financing and, in such case, we may not be able to successfully obtain additional financing on favorable terms, or at all. With the uncertainty surrounding the length and severity of the current global recession, we believe it is prudent capital management to continue to explore any and all options available to us to maximize capital flexibility, including accessing the capital markets, utilizing our commercial paper program, cost cutting and internal efficiency initiatives, U.S. government sources of funding and transactions with strategic and other investors. Disruptions, uncertainty or volatility in the capital and credit markets may limit our access to capital required to operate our business. Such market conditions may limit our ability to replace, in a timely manner, maturing liabilities; satisfy statutory capital requirements; fund redemption requests on insurance or other financial products; generate fee income and market related revenue to meet liquidity needs and access the capital necessary to grow our business. As such, we may be forced to delay raising capital, issue shorter tenor securities than we prefer, utilize available internal resources or bear an unattractive cost of capital which could decrease our profitability and significantly reduce our financial flexibility and liquidity. We will closely 58 monitor market opportunities to issue securities at favorable terms, explore other capital raising transactions, and continue to follow developments of government programs. Despite the fact that approximately $19.1 billion, or 98%, of our institutional GICs and funding agreements cannot be redeemed by contractholders prior to maturity and that our life insurance and annuity liabilities contain provisions limiting early surrenders, given market conditions we have built additional liquidity by increasing cash and cash equivalent holdings to $2.6 billion as of December 31, 2008. Actions to increase liquidity and manage capital include: (i) investing new cash flows into more liquid securities, (ii) reducing our common stock dividend from prior year levels to $0.45 per share and (iii) suspending purchases of our common stock under the existing share repurchase authorization, effective October 13, 2008. Currently, new cash inflows are primarily being invested in cash, short term government backed securities and other liquid investments. As a result of increased cash holdings, current yields will be lower than historically experienced. This trend will continue as long as market conditions remain strained and we continue to invest new cash inflows in cash and liquid investments. As a savings and loan holding company subject to oversight of the Office of Thrift Supervision, we have applied to participate in TCPP. If we participate in TCPP, we would issue preferred shares and warrants to the Treasury. The amount for which a company can apply is prescribed by the application. We have applied for and could participate in up to $2.0 billion under the program. As a diversified financial services company providing investment, banking, retirement and insurance products to businesses and individuals, the company is a significant provider of credit and liquidity to U.S. corporate and consumer markets. Receipt of TCPP proceeds would allow us to continue to fulfill that role by supporting our ongoing organic growth needs, including Principal Bank, our federal savings bank subsidiary. If we were to participate in the TCPP, we would be subject to certain limitations. Prior to the third anniversary of our participation, unless we had redeemed all of the preferred stock issued under the TCPP or the U.S. Treasury had transferred all of the preferred stock to a third party, the consent of the U.S. Treasury would be required for us to, among other things, increase our common stock dividend or repurchase our common stock or other preferred stock (with certain exceptions, including the repurchase of our common stock to offset share dilution from equity based employee compensation awards). PFS was accepted for the Federal Reserves Commercial Paper Funding Facility ("CPFF"). The CPFF is intended to serve as a funding backstop to facilitate the issuance of term commercial paper by eligible issuers. Through CPFF, the Federal Reserve Bank of New York will finance the purchase of unsecured and asset backed highly rated, U.S. dollar denominated, three month commercial paper from eligible issuers through its primary dealers. The facility has been recently extended and is now expected to expire on October 31, 2009. Our available funding under the CPFF is approximately $233.0 million, and as of December 31, 2008, PFS had used its available capacity under the CPFF. As of December 31, 2008, we had credit facilities with various financial institutions in an aggregate amount of $792.4 million. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, we had $500.9 million and $290.8 million of outstanding borrowings related to our credit facilities, with zero and $30.3 million of assets pledged as support, respectively. Assets pledged consisted primarily of commercial mortgages and securities. Our credit facilities include a $600.0 million commercial paper program, of which we issued $482.3 million as of December 31, 2008, $233.0 million of which was issued under the Federal Reserves CPFF. Our commercial paper program has a back stop facility to provide 100% support for our commercial paper program, of which there were no outstanding balances as of December 31, 2008. On October 5, 2008, Lehman Commercial Paper Inc. ("LCP"), a subsidiary of Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc., filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the Federal Bankruptcy Code in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. LCP is a lender under our credit facilities and had committed to provide $21.0 million under each facility. We are uncertain whether LCP will fulfill its commitments under the credit facilities in light of its bankruptcy filing. The Holding Companies: Principal Financial Group, Inc. and Principal Financial Services, Inc. The principal sources of funds available to our parent holding company, PFG, to meet its obligations, including the payments of dividends on common stock, debt service and the repurchase of stock, are dividends from subsidiaries as well as its ability to borrow funds at competitive rates and raise capital to meet operating and growth needs. Dividends from Principal Life, our primary subsidiary, are limited by Iowa law. Under Iowa laws, Principal Life may pay dividends only from the earned surplus arising from its business and must receive the prior approval of the Insurance Commissioner of the State of Iowa ("the Commissioner") to pay a stockholder dividend if such a stockholder dividend would exceed certain statutory limitations. In general, the current statutory limitation is the greater of (i) 10% of Principal Lifes statutory policyholder surplus as of the previous year end or (ii) the statutory net gain from operations from the previous calendar year. Iowa law gives the Commissioner discretion to disapprove requests for dividends in excess of these limits. Based on this limitation and 2008 statutory results, Principal Life could pay approximately $651.3 million in stockholder dividends in 2009 without exceeding the statutory limitation. Principal Life could have paid approximately $686.5 million in statutory dividends in 2008 based on its 2007 statutory financial results without being subject to the restrictions on payment of stockholder dividends. Total stockholder dividends paid by Principal Life to its parent company in 2008 were $5.5 million, which consisted of a non cash dividend of an equity method investment. 59 Principal Life could have paid approximately $660.4 million in statutory dividends in 2007 based on its 2006 statutory financial results without being subject to the restrictions on payment of stockholder dividends. Total stockholder dividends paid by Principal Life to its parent company in 2007 were $650.0 million. Principal Life could have paid approximately $630.7 million in statutory dividends in 2006 based on its 2005 statutory financial results without being subject to the restrictions on payment of stockholder dividends. The ordinary stockholder dividends paid by Principal Life to its parent company in 2006 were $426.2 million. In addition, Principal Life requested and received permission from the Commissioner to pay an extraordinary dividend in the amount of $750.0 million. The extraordinary stockholder dividends paid by Principal Life to its parent in 2006 were $750.0 million. Operations. Our primary consolidated cash flow sources are premiums from life and health insurance products, pension and annuity deposits, asset management fee revenues, administrative services fee revenues, income from investments and proceeds from the sales or maturity of investments. Cash outflows consist primarily of payment of benefits to policyholders and beneficiaries, income and other taxes, current operating expenses, payment of dividends to policyholders, payments in connection with investments acquired, payments made to acquire subsidiaries, payments relating to policy and contract surrenders, withdrawals, policy loans, interest expense and repayment of short term debt and long term debt. Our investment strategies are generally intended to provide adequate funds to pay benefits without forced sales of investments. For a discussion of our investment objectives, strategies and a discussion of duration matching, see "Investments" as well as Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk Interest Rate Risk." Cash Flows. Activity, as reported in our consolidated statements of cash flows, provides relevant information regarding our sources and uses of cash. The following discussion of our operating, investing and financing portions of the cash flows excludes cash flows attributable to our discontinued operations, which were as follows: For the year ended December 31, Cash flows attributable to discontinued operations: 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ $ 2.5 $ 1.9 Net cash used in investing activities (1.3 ) (3.4 ) Net cash used in financing activities (0.5 ) (0.6 ) Net cash provided by operating activities was $2,224.8 million, $2,960.0 million and $2,275.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. As an insurance business, we typically generate positive cash flows from operating activities, as premiums collected from our insurance products and income received from our investments exceed policy acquisition costs, benefits paid, redemptions and operating expenses. These positive cash flows are then invested to support the obligations of our insurance and investment products and required capital supporting these products. Our cash flows from operating activities are affected by the timing of premiums, fees, and investment income received and expenses paid. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily the result of the fluctuations in receivables and payables associated with timing of settlements. The increase in cash provided by operating activities in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily related to fluctuations in operational receivables and payables. Net cash used in investing activities was $2,917.2 million, $4,499.2 million and $3,910.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The decrease in cash used in investing activities was primarily the result of a decrease in net purchases of investments as we have held and are holding higher cash balances to cover potential near term obligations and to further reposition our investment portfolio as necessary. The increase in cash used in investing activities in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to an increase in net purchases of mortgage loans, available for sale securities and real estate as well as additional contributions in 2007 to an equity method investment with no corresponding activity in 2006. This increase was partially offset by larger acquisitions in 2006 relative to 2007. Net cash provided by financing activities was $1,956.0 million, $1,292.1 million and $1,586.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The increase in cash provided by financing activities in 2008 compared to 2007 is primarily due to our actions to increase liquidity and manage capital risk via a reduction in the acquisition of treasury stock as well as the reduction of our common stock dividend from prior year levels. The decrease in cash provided by financing activities in 2007 compared to 2006 was primarily due to the issuance of $600.0 million of senior notes from our shelf registration in 2006, with no corresponding activity in 2007 as well as a decrease in net deposits of investment contracts, offset in part by proceeds from short term debt in the current year, compared to payments of short term debt in the previous year. We will have $454.9 million of long term debt due in 2009; our plan is to refinance this debt. We have applied to participate in the FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program ("TLGP") program. If we do not qualify for the FDIC TLGP, we may not be able to issue debt into the capital markets on terms that are favorable to us or at all due to, among other things, the continuing disruptions in the financial markets and or investor preference for debt issued by participants in the TLGP. If the public debt markets are not accessible to us, we believe that we have several options to refinance this debt, including: use of our commercial paper program, reduction of our common dividend, or a dividend of excess liquidity from Principal Life, funded by either cash or selling cash 60 equivalents. In the event that no debt sources are available to refinance the $454.9 million of long term debt, we may have to recognize a gain or loss on certain interest rate hedges. For more information regarding the derivatives, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 8, Derivative Financial Instruments" under the caption, "Cash Flow Hedges." Shelf Registration. We currently have an effective shelf registration which allows us the ability to issue, in unlimited amounts, unsecured senior debt securities or subordinated debt securities, junior subordinated debt, preferred stock, common stock, warrants, depository shares, stock purchase contracts and stock purchase units of PFG, trust preferred securities of three subsidiary trusts and guarantees by PFG of these trust preferred securities. Our wholly owned subsidiary, PFS, may guarantee, fully and unconditionally or otherwise, our obligations with respect to any non convertible securities, other than common stock, described in the shelf registration. For information on senior notes issued from our shelf registration, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 12, Debt." Short Term Debt and Long Term Debt. For debt information, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 12, Debt." Stockholders Equity. Proceeds from the issuance of our common stock were $36.4 million, $73.6 million and $66.2 million in 2008, 2007 and 2006, respectively. The following table summarizes our return of capital to common stockholders in 2008, 2007 and 2006. For the year ended December 31, 2008 2007 2006 (in millions) Dividends to stockholders $ 116.7 $ 235.6 $ 214.7 Repurchase of common stock 6.4 756.3 755.8 Total cash returned to stockholders $ 123.1 $ 991.9 $ 970.5 Number of shares repurchased 1.0 11.5 14.5 To enhance our liquidity and capital position in the current market, our Board of Directors decided to suspend repurchases of our common stock under our stock repurchase program and reduce our common stock dividend from prior year levels. The resumption of our stock repurchase program and the declaration and payment of future dividends to the holders of our common stock will be at the discretion of our Board of Directors and will depend on many factors including dividends from our operating subsidiaries, our financial condition and net income, the capital requirements of our subsidiaries, legal requirements, regulatory constraints, our credit and financial strength ratings and such other factors as the Board of Directors deems relevant. For additional stockholders equity information, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 16, Stockholders Equity." Capitalization Our capital structure as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, consisted of debt and equity summarized as follows: December 31, 2008 2007 (in millions) Debt: Short term debt $ 500.9 $ 290.8 Long term debt 1,290.5 1,398.8 Total debt 1,791.4 1,689.6 Stockholders equity: Equity excluding accumulated other comprehensive income 7,384.4 7,001.5 Total capitalization excluding accumulated other comprehensive income $ 9,175.8 $ 8,691.1 Debt to equity excluding accumulated other comprehensive income 24 % 24 % Debt to capitalization excluding accumulated other comprehensive income 20 % 19 % As of December 31, 2008, between the life and the holding companies, we had approximately $800.0 million of capital in excess of levels needed to maintain our current credit rating. In addition to the previously mentioned suspension of share repurchases and the adjustment of the current year common stock dividend, we are taking other actions to maximize internally generated capital, above and beyond what is currently being generated from ongoing operations. This includes: managing growth of capital intensive businesses and new expense initiatives, including limitations on new hiring, reducing 2009 merit increases by more than 75%, and the reduction of approximately 550 existing positions. We expect these efforts to be a source of additional capital over the next several quarters. Excess capital levels will help position us to capitalize on organic growth and acquisition opportunities. 61  Contractual Obligations The following table presents payments due by period for long term contractual obligations as of December 31, 2008: Payments due in year ending Contractual Obligations (1) Total Payments 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 and thereafter (in millions) Contractholder funds (2) $ 61,476.0 $ 7,898.5 $ 11,829.0 $ 13,560.3 $ 28,188.2 Future policy benefits and claims (3) 39,492.7 2,084.6 3,475.5 3,341.2 30,591.4 Long term debt (4) 1,290.5 466.5 92.5 17.5 714.0 Certificates of deposit (5) 1,272.4 1,029.6 170.7 69.6 2.5 Other long term liabilities (6) 1,315.8 1,102.1 213.7 Capital leases 11.5 5.7 5.6 0.2 Long term debt interest 1,338.3 74.2 97.5 95.5 1,071.1 Operating leases (7) 198.5 53.9 73.8 34.8 36.0 Purchase obligations (8) 226.4 189.8 30.0 6.6 Total contractual obligations $ 106,622.1 $ 12,904.9 $ 15,774.6 $ 17,125.7 $ 60,816.9 (1)Excludes short term liabilities, other policyholder funds, taxes and short term debt as these are not long term and or not contractual in nature. Also excludes obligations under our pension and other postretirement benefit plans as we do not anticipate contributions will be needed to satisfy the minimum funding requirements of ERISA for our qualified pension plan. In addition, separate account liabilities are excluded. Separate account liabilities represent the fair market value of funds that are separately administered by us. Generally, the separate account contract owner, rather than us, bears the investment risk of these funds. The separate account liabilities are legally segregated and are not subject to claims that arise out of any other business of ours. Net deposits, net investment income and realized and unrealized capital gains and losses on the separate accounts are not reflected in the consolidated statement of operations. The separate account obligations will be fully funded by cash flows from the separate account assets. (2)Includes GICs, funding agreements, individual fixed annuities, universal life insurance and other investment type contracts. See Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 11, Insurance Liabilities" for additional information. Amounts included in the contractholder funds line item reflect estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders. The sum of the cash outflows shown for all years in the table exceeds the corresponding liability amount included in our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2008. The liability amount in our consolidated financial statements reflects estimated cash payments to policyholders, assumptions with regard to the timing of cash payments and discounting for interest. (3)Amounts included in the future policy benefits and claims line item reflect estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders. The sum of the cash outflows shown for all years in the table exceeds the corresponding liability amount included in our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2008. The liability amount in our consolidated financial statements reflects estimated cash payments to policyholders, reductions for expected future premiums, assumptions with regard to the timing of cash payments and discounting for interest. (4)For long term debt information, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 12, Debt." (5)Amounts included in the certificates of deposit line item reflect estimated cash payments to be made, including expected interest payments. Certificates of deposit are reported as other liabilities on our consolidated statement of financial position. (6)Other long term liabilities include other liabilities reflected in the consolidated statement of financial position that are contractual, non cancelable and long term in nature. The total payments primarily related to checking and savings deposits. This line item excludes accruals, short term items and items not contractual in nature. (7)As a lessee, we lease office space, data processing equipment and office furniture and equipment under various operating leases. (8)Purchase obligations include material contracts where we have a non cancelable commitment to purchase goods and services in addition to commitments to originate loans and purchase investments. 62 Pension and Other Postretirement Plan Funding We have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all of our U.S. employees and certain agents. See Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 14, Employee and Agent Benefits" for a complete discussion of these plans and their effect on the consolidated financial statements. We report the net funded status of our pension and other postretirement plans in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders equity. It represents the differences between the fair value of plan assets and the projected benefit obligation for pension plans and the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation for other postretirement plans that have not yet been recognized as a component of net periodic cost. The measurement of the net funded status can vary based upon the fluctuations in the fair value of the plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for the plans as discussed below. The net underfunded status of the pension and other post retirement benefit obligation at December 31, 2008, was $404.8 million pre tax, a decrease of $881.9 million from a net funded status of $477.1 million pre tax at December 31, 2007. The decline in the net funded status of the pension and other postretirement benefit obligation in 2008 is primarily related to market conditions experienced in 2008. Our funding policy for the qualified pension plan is to fund the plan annually in an amount at least equal to the minimum annual contributions required under ERISA and, generally, not greater than the maximum amount that can be deducted for federal income tax purposes. We do not anticipate contributions will be needed to satisfy the minimum funding requirements of ERISA for our qualified pension plan. At this time, it is too early to estimate the amount that may be contributed, but it is possible that we may fund the plans in 2009 in the range of $20 $50 million. This includes funding for both our qualified and nonqualified pension plans. We may contribute to our other postretirement benefit plans in 2009 pending further analysis. Contractual Commitments In connection with our banking business, we make additional commitments to extend credit, which are agreements to lend to a customer as long as there is no violation of any conditions established in the contract. Commitments generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses and may require payment of a fee. A majority of these commitments are lines of credit and are expected to expire without being drawn upon. Therefore, the total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future cash funding requirements. We evaluate each customers creditworthiness on a case by case basis. The total commitments to fund loans were $193.8 million as of December 31, 2008. We have made commitments to fund certain limited partnerships in which we are a limited partner. As of December 31, 2008, the amount of unfunded commitments was $90.6 million. We are only required to fund additional equity under these commitments when called upon to do so by the general partner, therefore these commitments are not liabilities on our consolidated statements of financial position. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Variable Interest Entities. We have relationships with various types of special purpose entities and other entities where we have a variable interest as described in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 5, Variable Interest Entities." We do not have a direct or contingent obligation related to our unconsolidated variable interest entities ("VIE") other than described below. Retained Interests in Securitized Assets. Previously, we, along with other contributors, sold commercial mortgage loans in securitization transactions to trusts. As these trusts are classified as qualifying special purpose entities, they are not subject to the VIE consolidation rules. We may retain interests in the securitization transactions. At December 31, 2008 and 2007, the fair values of retained interests related to the securitizations of commercial mortgage loans were $133.2 million and $315.8 million, respectively. The investors and the securitization entities have no recourse to our assets for failure of debtors to pay when due. The value of our retained interests is subject primarily to credit risk. During the third quarter of 2008, we made a decision to terminate our commercial mortgage securities issuance operation. Guarantees and Indemnifications. For guarantee and indemnification information, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 15, Contingencies, Guarantees and Indemnifications" under the caption, "Guarantees and Indemnifications." Financial Strength Rating and Credit Ratings Our ratings are influenced by many factors including our operating and financial performance, asset quality, liquidity, asset/liability management, overall portfolio mix, financial leverage (i.e., debt), risk exposures, operating leverage, ratings and other factors. NRSROs publish financial strength ratings on U.S. life insurance companies that are indicators of an insurance companys ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations. NRSROs also assign credit ratings on non life 63 insurance entities, such as PFG and PFS. Credit ratings are indicators of a debt issuers ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner, and are important factors in overall funding profile and ability to access external capital. Such ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities. Ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning NRSRO, and each rating should be evaluated independently of any other rating. Ratings are important factors in establishing the competitive position of insurance companies and maintaining public confidence in products being offered. A ratings downgrade, or the potential for such a downgrade, could, among other things: (i) materially increase the number of surrenders for all or a portion of the net cash values by the owners of policies, contracts, general account GICs we have issued, and materially increase the number of withdrawals by policyholders of cash values from their policies; (ii) result in the termination of our relationships with broker dealers, banks, agents, wholesalers and other distributors of our products and services; (iii) reduce new sales, particularly with respect to general account GICs and funding agreements purchased by pension plans and other institutions; (iv) cause some of our existing liabilities to be subject to acceleration, additional collateral support, changes in terms, or creation of additional financial obligations and (v) increase our cost of capital and limit our access to the capital markets. Any of these consequences could adversely affect our profitability and financial condition. In recent months, each of A.M. Best Company, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd., Moodys Investors Service, and Standard & Poors has revised its outlook for the U.S. life insurance industry from stable to negative. Of the many issues cited, the negative outlook is primarily based on expectations for higher than normal credit losses, negative impact of the volatile equity market on earnings and reduced financial flexibility. These outlook revisions signal increased review of U.S. life insurance companies by A.M. Best Company, Inc., Fitch Ratings, Ltd., Moodys Investors Service, and Standard & Poors. As a result, it is possible there will be changes in the benchmarks for capital, liquidity, earnings and other factors used by these NRSROs that are critical to a ratings assignment at a particular rating level. If any such changes are made, it is possible that such changes could have an impact on the ratings of U.S. life insurance companies, including ours, which could adversely impact our profitability and financial condition. As a reflection of the change by the rating agencies of their view of the market and the impact on life insurance companies, on February 10, 2009, Moodys Investors Service affirmed Principal Lifes insurance financial strength rating, with a negative outlook, and Standard & Poors also affirmed Principal Lifes insurance financial strength rating, with a credit watch negative outlook. While the affirmations reflect our financial strength, operating performance and ability to meet obligations, the negative and credit watch negative outlooks reflect Moodys Investors Service and Standard & Poors expectations that equity market risk will have an impact on our earnings, and that there will be additional asset impairments. On February 13, 2009, Fitch Ratings Ltd. downgraded Principal Lifes insurance financial strength rating to AA , with a rating watch negative outlook. While the AA rating is still considered strong, macroeconomic pressure is impacting the outlook for the rating. The following table summarizes our significant financial ratings from the major independent rating organizations: A.M. Best Fitch Standard & Poors Moodys Principal Financial Group Senior Unsecured Debt A A3 Preferred Stock BBB+ Baa2 Principal Financial Services Senior Unsecured Debt A A2 Commercial Paper A 1 P 1 Principal Life Insurance Company Insurer Financial Strength A+ AA AA Aa2 Enterprise Risk Management Rating Strong Impacts of Income Taxes For income tax information, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 13, Income Taxes." Fair Value Measurement As discussed in Item 8. "Financial Statements, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 17, Fair Value Measurement" we adopted SFAS 157 effective January 1, 2008. SFAS 157 defines fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (an exit price) and establishes a fair value hierarchy that prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into three levels for disclosure purposes. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority (Level 1) to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities and gives the lowest priority to unobservable 64 inputs (Level 3). An asset or liabilitys classification within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of significant input to its valuation. The levels of the fair value hierarchy are as follows: Level 1 Fair values are based on unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Our Level 1 assets and liabilities primarily include exchange traded equity securities, mutual funds and U.S. Treasury bonds. Prices are obtained from readily available sources for market transactions involving identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 Fair values are based on inputs other than quoted prices within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly. Observable inputs include market prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities and other market observable inputs such as interest rate, credit spread and foreign currency exchange rates observable in the marketplace or derived from market transactions. Our Level 2 assets and liabilities primarily include fixed maturity securities (including public and private bonds), equity securities, over the counter derivatives and other investments. These fair values are generally obtained from third party pricing services or determined through the use of valuation models or methodologies, including matrix pricing, using substantially all observable inputs. Prices are validated through an investment analyst review process including direct interaction with external sources, recent trade activity or through the use of internal models. Level 3 Fair values are based on at least one significant unobservable input for the asset or liability and as a result considerable judgment may be used in determining the fair values. Our Level 3 assets and liabilities include certain fixed maturity securities, private equity securities, complex derivatives and embedded derivatives. These fair values are generally obtained through the use of valuation models or methodologies using a significant unobservable input or broker quote. In circumstances where broker quotes are used to value an instrument we generally receive one non binding quote. Fixed maturity securities and equity securities priced using broker quotes represent 0.9% of the total and all are classified as Level 3. Broker quotes are validated through an investment analyst review process including direct interaction with external sources, through the use of internal models or other relevant information. We did not make any significant changes to our valuation process during the year of 2008. For further information on investments and derivatives, see Item 8. "Financials Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 6, Investments, and Note 8, Derivative Financial Instruments." Assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis as of December 31, 2008, are summarized below. As of December 31, 2008 Assets / (liabilities) measured at fair value Fair value hierarchy level Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 (in millions) Assets Fixed maturities, available for sale $ 40,117.2 $ 126.7 $ 38,817.5 $ 1,173.0 Fixed maturities, trading 843.4 782.7 60.7 Equity securities, available for sale 242.7 176.4 10.1 56.2 Equity securities, trading 158.0 61.3 96.7 Net derivative assets and liabilities (261.3 ) (95.1 ) (166.2 ) Other investments 75.9 13.2 62.7 Cash equivalents 1,807.9 656.3 1,151.6 Sub total excluding separate account assets 42,983.8 1,033.9 40,826.2 1,123.7 Separate account assets 55,142.6 30,693.4 18,406.9 6,042.3 Total assets $ 98,126.4 $ 31,727.3 $ 59,233.1 $ 7,166.0 Liabilities Investment type insurance contracts $ (60.2 ) $ $ $ (60.2 ) Other liabilities (109.3 ) (5.5 ) (103.8 ) Total liabilities $ (169.5 ) $ $ (5.5 ) $ (164.0 ) Net assets $ 97,956.9 $ 31,727.3 $ 59,227.6 $ 7,002.0 % of net assets 32 % 61 % 7 % % of net assets, excluding separate account assets 2 % 95 % 3 % 65  Changes in Level 3 fair value measurements The reconciliation for all assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) for the year ended December 31, 2008, is as follows: For the year ended December 31, 2008 Total realized/unrealized gains (losses) Beginning asset/ (liability) balance as of January 1, 2008 Ending asset/ (liability) balance as of December 31, 2008 Purchases, sales, issuances and settlements Included in net income (1) Included in other comprehensive income Transfers in (out) of Level 3 Net increase (decrease) (in millions) Assets Fixed maturities, available for sale $ 2,201.3 $ (148.5 ) $ (507.8 ) $ (567.2 ) $ 195.2 $ 1,173.0 $ (1,028.3 ) Fixed maturities, trading 92.3 (19.1 ) (11.4 ) (1.1 ) 60.7 (31.6 ) Equity securities, available for sale 51.1 (41.5 ) (12.1 ) 20.7 38.0 56.2 5.1 Net derivative assets and liabilities (8.0 ) (125.3 ) (23.9 ) (9.0 ) (166.2 ) (158.2 ) Separate account assets 7,313.2 (958.9 ) 1.0 (209.5 ) (103.5 ) 6,042.3 (1,270.9 ) Liabilities Investment type insurance contracts (49.3 ) (58.4 ) (0.1 ) 47.6 (60.2 ) (10.9 ) Other liabilities (155.6 ) 70.0 (18.2 ) (103.8 ) 51.8 Net total $ 9,445.0 $ (1,351.7 ) $ (472.9 ) $ (747.0 ) $ 128.6 $ 7,002.0 $ (2,443.0 ) (1)Gains and losses for separate account assets do not impact net income as the change in value of separate account assets is offset by a change in value of separate account liabilities. The decrease in the fair value of Level 3 instruments for the year ended December 31, 2008, is primarily attributed to separate account assets and fixed maturities, available for sale securities. The decrease in separate account assets is primarily a result of unrealized losses, which does not impact net income in the consolidated statements of operations, as the change in value of separate account assets is offset by a change in value of separate account liabilities. The decrease in fixed maturities, available for sale securities resulted from the settlement of certain credit collateralized debt obligations and unrealized losses recognized in other comprehensive income. Most of the fixed maturity available for sale securities unrealized losses included in other comprehensive income are related to corporate bonds, with lesser amounts attributed to collateralized debt obligations, commercial mortgage backed securities and asset backed securities. Investments We had total consolidated assets as of December 31, 2008, of $128.2 billion, of which $59.1 billion were invested assets. The rest of our total consolidated assets are comprised primarily of separate account assets for which we do not bear investment risk. Because we generally do not bear any investment risk on assets held in separate accounts, the discussion and financial information below does not include such assets. Overall Composition of Invested Assets Invested assets as of December 31, 2008, were predominantly high quality and broadly diversified across asset class, individual credit, industry and geographic location. Asset allocation is determined based on cash flow and the risk/return requirements of our products. As shown in the following table, the major categories of invested assets are fixed maturity 66 securities and commercial mortgage loans. The remainder is invested in residential mortgage loans, real estate, equity securities and other assets. In addition, policy loans are included in our invested assets. December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Carrying amount % of total Carrying amount % of total ($ in millions) Fixed maturity securities: Public $ 28,786.7 49 % $ 31,847.2 50 % Private 12,173.9 21 15,421.0 24 Equity securities 400.7 1 586.2 1 Mortgage loans: Commercial 11,279.3 19 10,763.5 17 Residential 1,834.3 3 1,896.1 3 Real estate held for sale 139.6 82.4 Real estate held for investment 779.8 1 780.1 1 Policy loans 896.4 1 869.9 1 Other investments 2,816.6 5 2,118.6 3 Total invested assets 59,107.3 100 % 64,365.0 100 % Cash and cash equivalents 2,608.0 1,344.4 Total invested assets and cash $ 61,715.3 $ 65,709.4 Investment Results The following table presents the yield and investment income, excluding net realized capital gains and losses for our invested assets. We calculate annualized yields using a simple average of asset classes at the beginning and end of the reporting period. For the year ended December 31, 2008 2007 Yield Amount Yield Amount ($ in millions) Fixed maturity securities 7.0 % $ 3,105.8 6.2 % $ 2,869.2 Equity securities 3.8 18.9 3.8 27.0 Mortgage loans commercial 6.1 666.8 6.6 688.9 Mortgage loans residential 8.3 154.8 7.5 129.7 Real estate 6.1 54.6 8.9 74.9 Policy loans 6.6 58.3 6.1 52.6 Cash and cash equivalents 2.9 57.0 7.2 105.9 Other investments 0.9 21.8 9.3 165.1 Total before investment expenses 6.5 4,138.0 6.4 4,113.3 Investment expenses 0.2 (143.7 ) 0.2 (146.8 ) Net investment income 6.3 % $ 3,994.3 6.2 % $ 3,966.5 The following tables present the contributors to net realized capital gains and losses for our invested assets for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. For the year ended December 31, 2008 Impairments and credit losses Other gains (losses) Hedging adjustments Net realized capital gains (losses) (in millions) Fixed maturity securities (1) $ (411.0 ) $ 23.1 $ 496.3 $ 108.4 Fixed maturity securities, trading (61.7 ) (61.7 ) Equity securities (2) (46.2 ) 1.6 (44.6 ) Equity securities, trading (65.7 ) (65.7 ) Mortgage loans on real estate (3) (44.8 ) (44.8 ) Derivatives (4) (645.1 ) (645.1 ) Other (5) (7.3 ) (46.0 ) 112.7 59.4 Total $ (509.3 ) $ (148.7 ) $ (36.1 ) $ (694.1 ) (1)Impairments include $421.6 million of credit impairment write downs and $23.1 million in realized credit recoveries on the sale of previously impaired assets. Credit losses include $13.7 million in realized losses related to credit triggered sales. 67 (2)Impairments include $55.3 million of credit impairment write downs and $9.1 million in realized credit recoveries on the sale of previously impaired assets. (3)Impairments include $27.8 million in realized losses due to the foreclosure of commercial mortgage loans and a $16.5 million increase in the commercial mortgage loan valuation allowance. (4)Derivatives include $526.8 million of net losses related to mark to market adjustments on derivatives used in fair value hedges of fixed maturity securities and $156.7 million of net losses related to mark to market adjustments on derivatives used in fair value hedges of liabilities. The remainder of the net loss resulted primarily from mark to market adjustments on derivatives not designated as hedging instruments, with the largest components being $121.0 million of net losses on credit default swaps, $56.1 million of net gains on interest rate swaps, $115.5 million of net gains on index options and the remainder relating to net gains from other risk management activities. (5)Impairments include $7.3 million in realized losses on the investment in a money market mutual fund. Other gains (losses) primarily include net losses related to mark to market adjustments on certain seed money investments. Hedging adjustments primarily include net gains on certain liabilities in fair value hedging relationships. For the year ended December 31, 2007 Impairments and credit losses Other gains (losses) Hedging adjustments Net realized capital gains (losses) (in millions) Fixed maturity securities (1) $ (262.8 ) $ 17.1 $ 151.8 $ (93.9 ) Fixed maturity securities, trading 1.7 1.7 Equity securities (2) (51.3 ) 5.0 (46.3 ) Equity securities, trading 23.0 23.0 Mortgage loans on real estate (3) (7.1 ) (7.1 ) Derivatives (4) (228.5 ) (228.5 ) Other (5) 34.6 (12.3 ) 22.3 Total $ (321.2 ) $ 81.4 $ (89.0 ) $ (328.8 ) (1)Impairments include $215.7 million of credit impairment write downs and $8.4 million in realized credit recoveries on the sale of previously impaired assets. Certain fixed maturity securities moved into a loss position during the second quarter of 2007, and we determined that we did not have the ability and intent to hold these securities. As a result, we recognized impairment losses on these securities of $24.5 million, net of recoveries on the subsequent sale, primarily due to a change in interest rates. Credit losses include $32.3 million in realized losses and $2.0 million in realized gains related to credit triggered sales. (2)Impairments include $52.6 million of credit impairment write downs and $1.3 million in realized credit recoveries on the sale of previously impaired assets. (3)Impairments include $2.7 million in realized gains that resulted from the sale of a commercial mortgage loan for which we had credit concerns and a $9.8 million increase in the commercial mortgage loan valuation allowance. (4)Derivatives include $153.5 million of net losses related to mark to market adjustments on derivatives used in fair value hedges of fixed maturity securities and $39.4 million of net gains related to mark to market adjustment on derivatives used in fair value hedges of liabilities. The remainder of the net loss resulted primarily from mark to market adjustments on derivatives not designated as hedging instruments, with the largest component being $81.1 million of net losses on credit default swaps and the remainder relating to net losses from other risk management activities. (5)Other gains (losses) include a $24.6 million realized gain on the sale of stock of an equity method investment. Hedging adjustments primarily include net losses on certain liabilities in fair value hedging relationships. U.S. Investment Operations Of our invested assets, $55.8 billion were held by our U.S. operations as of December 31, 2008. Our U.S. invested assets are managed primarily by Principal Global Investors. Our primary investment objective is to maximize after tax returns consistent with acceptable risk parameters. We seek to protect policyholders benefits by optimizing the risk/return relationship on an ongoing basis, through asset/liability matching, reducing the credit risk, avoiding high levels of investments that may be redeemed by the issuer, maintaining sufficiently liquid investments and avoiding undue asset concentrations through diversification. We are exposed to three primary sources of investment risk: credit risk, relating to the uncertainty associated with the continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments of principal and interest; 68 interest rate risk, relating to the market price and or cash flow variability associated with changes in market yield curves and equity risk, relating to adverse fluctuations in a particular common stock. Our ability to manage credit risk is essential to our business and our profitability. We devote considerable resources to the credit analysis of each new investment. We manage credit risk through industry, issuer and asset class diversification. Our Investment Committee, appointed by our Board of Directors, is responsible for establishing all investment policies and approving or authorizing all investments, except the Executive Committee of the Board must approve any investment transaction exceeding $500.0 million. As of December 31, 2008, there are ten members on the Investment Committee, two of whom are members of our Board of Directors. The remaining members are senior management members representing various areas of our company. We also seek to reduce call or prepayment risk arising from changes in interest rates in individual investments. We limit our exposure to investments that are prepayable without penalty prior to maturity at the option of the issuer and we require additional yield on these investments to compensate for the risk that the issuer will exercise such option. We assess option risk in all investments we make and, when we take that risk, we price for it accordingly. Our Fixed Income Securities Committee, consisting of fixed income securities senior management members, approves the credit rating for the fixed maturity securities we purchase. Teams of security analysts, organized by industry, focus either on the public or private markets and analyze and monitor these investments. In addition, we have teams who specialize in residential mortgage backed securities, commercial mortgage backed securities ("CMBS"), asset backed securities ("ABS") and public below investment grade securities. We establish a credit reviewed list of approved public issuers to provide an efficient way for our portfolio managers to purchase liquid bonds for which credit review has already been completed. Issuers remain on the list for one year unless removed by our analysts. Our analysts monitor issuers on the list on a continuous basis with a formal review documented annually or more frequently if material events affect the issuer. The analysis includes both fundamental and technical factors. The fundamental analysis encompasses both quantitative and qualitative analysis of the issuer. The qualitative analysis includes an assessment of both accounting and management aggressiveness of the issuer. In addition, technical indicators such as stock price volatility and credit default swap levels are monitored. Our Fixed Income Securities Committee also reviews private transactions on a continuous basis to assess the quality ratings of our privately placed investments. We regularly review our investments to determine whether we should re rate them, employing the following criteria: material declines in the issuers revenues or margins; significant management or organizational changes; significant uncertainty regarding the issuers industry; debt service coverage or cash flow ratios that fall below industry specific thresholds; violation of financial covenants and other business factors that relate to the issuer. A dedicated risk management team is responsible for centralized monitoring of the commercial mortgage loan portfolio. We apply a variety of strategies to minimize credit risk in our commercial mortgage loan portfolio. When considering the origination of new commercial mortgage loans, we review the cash flow fundamentals of the property, make a physical assessment of the underlying security, conduct a comprehensive market analysis and compare against industry lending practices. We use a proprietary risk rating model to evaluate all new and a majority of existing loans within the portfolio. The proprietary risk model is designed to stress projected cash flows under simulated economic and market downturns. Our lending guidelines are designed to encourage 75% or less loan to value ratios and a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.2 times. We analyze investments outside of these guidelines based on cash flow quality, tenancy and other factors. The weighted average loan to value ratio at origination for brick and mortar commercial mortgages in our portfolio was 59% and 65% as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The debt service coverage ratio at loan inception was 1.7 times as of both December 31, 2008 and 2007. We have limited exposure to equity risk in our common stock portfolio. Our investment decisions and objectives are a function of the underlying risks and product profiles of each primary business operation. In addition, we diversify our product portfolio offerings to include products that contain features that will protect us against fluctuations in interest rates. Those features include adjustable crediting rates, policy surrender charges and market value adjustments on liquidations. For further information on our management of interest rate risk, see Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate Risk." 69 Overall Composition of U.S. Invested Assets U.S. invested assets as of December 31, 2008, were predominantly high quality and broadly diversified across asset class, individual credit, industry and geographic location. Asset allocation is determined based on cash flow and the risk/return requirements of our products. As shown in the following table, the major categories of U.S. invested assets are fixed maturity securities and commercial mortgage loans. The remainder is invested in residential mortgage loans, real estate, equity securities and other assets. In addition, policy loans are included in our invested assets. The following discussion analyzes the composition of U.S. invested assets, but excludes invested assets of the separate accounts. December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Carrying amount % of total Carrying amount % of total ($ in millions) Fixed maturity securities: Public $ 26,652.5 48 % $ 29,127.7 48 % Private 12,173.9 22 15,421.0 26 Equity securities 359.9 1 533.5 1 Mortgage loans: Commercial 11,279.3 20 10,763.5 18 Residential 1,354.4 2 1,337.5 2 Real estate held for sale 135.4 82.4 Real estate held for investment 779.8 1 777.2 1 Policy loans 881.4 2 853.7 2 Other investments 2,162.4 4 1,391.4 2 Total invested assets 55,779.0 100 % 60,287.9 100 % Cash and cash equivalents 2,537.0 1,261.5 Total invested assets and cash $ 58,316.0 $ 61,549.4 Fixed Maturity Securities Fixed maturity securities consist of short term investments, publicly traded debt securities, privately placed debt securities and redeemable preferred stock. Included in the privately placed category as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, were $6.1 billion and $8.4 billion, respectively, of securities eligible for resale to qualified institutional buyers under Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933. Fixed maturity securities were diversified by category of issuer as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, as shown in the following table: December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Carrying amount % of total Carrying amount % of total ($ in millions) U.S. Government and agencies $ 595.2 1 % $ 672.3 2 % States and political subdivisions 2,176.7 6 2,071.5 5 Non U.S. governments 478.5 1 453.9 1 Corporate public 17,224.9 44 19,517.9 44 Corporate private 10,365.4 27 12,170.4 27 Residential pass through securities 2,187.9 6 1,496.1 3 Commercial mortgage backed securities 3,607.1 9 4,665.6 10 Residential collateralized mortgage obligations 768.6 2 936.9 2 Asset backed securities 1,422.1 4 2,564.1 6 Total fixed maturity securities $ 38,826.4 100 % $ 44,548.7 100 % We believe that it is desirable to hold residential mortgage backed pass through securities due to their credit quality and liquidity as well as portfolio diversification characteristics. Our portfolio is comprised of Government National Mortgage Association ("GNMA"), Federal National Mortgage Association ("FNMA") and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation ("FHLMC") pass through securities. In addition, our residential collateralized mortgage obligation portfolio offers structural features that allow cash flows to be matched to our liabilities. CMBS provide varying levels of credit protection, diversification and reduced event risk depending on the securities owned and composition of the loan pool. CMBS are predominantly comprised of large pool securitizations that are diverse by property type, borrower and geographic dispersion. The risks to any CMBS deal are determined by the credit quality of the underlying loans and how those loans perform over time. Another key risk is the vintage of the underlying loans and the state of the markets during a particular vintage. In the CMBS market, there is a material difference in the 70 outlook for the performance of loans originated in 2005 and earlier relative to loans originated in 2006 through 2008. For loans originated prior to 2006, underwriting assumptions were more conservative regarding required debt service coverage and loan to value ratios. For the 2006 and 2007 vintages, real estate values peaked and the underwriting expectations were that income would continue to increase which make those loan values more sensitive to market declines. We purchase ABS to diversify the overall credit risks of the fixed maturity securities portfolio and to provide attractive returns. The principal risks in holding ABS are structural and credit risks. Structural risks include the securitys priority in the issuers capital structure, the adequacy of and ability to realize proceeds from the collateral and the potential for prepayments. Credit risks involve issuer/servicer risk where collateral values can become impaired in the event of servicer credit deterioration. Our ABS portfolio is diversified both by type of asset and by issuer. We actively monitor holdings of ABS to ensure that the risk profile of each security improves or remains consistent. Prepayments in the ABS portfolio are, in general, insensitive to changes in interest rates or are insulated to such changes by call protection features. In the event that we are subject to prepayment risk, we monitor the factors that impact the level of prepayment and prepayment speed for those ABS. In addition, we diversify the risks of ABS by holding a diverse class of securities, which limits our exposure to any one security. The international exposure held in our U.S. operations fixed maturity securities portfolio totaled $8,178.3 million, or 21%, and $10,046.5 million, or 23%, of total fixed maturity securities, as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. It is comprised of corporate and foreign government fixed maturity securities. The following table presents our international exposure for our U.S. operations fixed maturity securities portfolio for the periods indicated. December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 (in millions) European Union $ 2,432.9 $ 2,843.1 United Kingdom 2,049.5 2,641.7 Asia 973.3 1,059.0 Australia 743.5 954.1 South America 500.8 594.6 Mexico 264.9 340.3 Japan 50.8 59.4 Other countries (1) 1,162.6 1,554.3 Total $ 8,178.3 $ 10,046.5 (1) Includes exposure from 24 countries as of both December 31, 2008 and December 31, 2007. All international fixed maturity securities held by our U.S. operations are either denominated in U.S. dollars or have been swapped into U.S. dollar equivalents. Our international investments are analyzed internally by country and industry credit investment professionals. We control concentrations using issuer and country level exposure benchmarks, which are based on the credit quality of the issuer and the country. Our investment policy limits total international fixed maturity securities investments to 20% of total statutory general account assets with a 4% limit in emerging markets. Exposure to Canada is not included in our international exposure. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, our investments in Canada totaled $1,402.2 million and $1,576.4 million, respectively. Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Concentrations. One aspect of managing credit risk is through industry issuer and asset class diversification. Our credit concentrations are managed to established limits. Our top ten exposures were rated an "A " equivalent or better by the rating agencies and no individual non government issuer represented more than 1% of U.S. invested assets as of December 31, 2008. The exposure that had been attributed to monoline bond and mortgage insurers from investments we own that are guaranteed by them is no longer included in the evaluation of our top ten 71 exposures. We are no longer relying on said guarantors and are directly evaluating exposure to these investments. The following table presents our top ten exposures as of December 31, 2008. December 31, 2008 Amortized cost (in millions) Bank of America Corp. $ 385.9 JP Morgan Chase & Co. (1) 316.5 Wells Fargo & Co. (1) 261.9 General Electric Co. 242.6 AT&T Inc. 213.2 American International Group, Inc. 191.9 Credit Suisse Group AG 157.7 Deutsche Bank AG (1) 155.1 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. 152.8 Royal Bank of Scotland Group PLC 146.8 Total top ten exposures $ 2,224.4 (1)Includes actual counterparty exposure. We have exposure to monoline bond and mortgage insurers with an amortized cost of $753.0 million and a carrying amount of $734.0 million as of December 31, 2008. The $753.0 million includes wrapped guarantees on $704.7 million of underlying municipal bonds, corporate credit or ABS. Our direct exposure to these insurers was $48.3 million. Of the $704.7 million in wrapped guarantees, 47% was municipal bonds, of which 99% was investment grade; 37% was investment grade bank perpetual preferred securities; 10% was ABS backed by sub prime first lien mortgages, of which 53% was investment grade; and 6% was corporate fixed maturities, of which 91% was investment grade. On September 7, 2008, the United States Treasury announced that FNMA and FHLMC had been placed into conservatorship. As of December 31, 2008, our direct exposure consisted of fixed maturity securities with an amortized cost of $578.0 million and a carrying value of $623.2 million and equity securities with a cost of $0.6 million and carrying value of $0.1 million. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded a $6.0 million realized capital loss on the equity securities. We had sold $20.0 million notional of credit default swap ("CDS") protection referencing FNMA and FHLMC debt. This CDS was terminated during the fourth quarter 2008 and a realized capital loss of $1.3 million was recorded. On September 14, 2008, Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. ("Lehman Brothers") declared bankruptcy. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded a $112.6 million realized capital loss due to impairment of fixed maturity and equity securities. Our exposure to Lehman Brothers includes fixed maturity securities with both an amortized cost and carrying value of $6.7 million as of December 31, 2008. We had purchased CDS protection on Lehman Brothers with a notional of $15.0 million. This CDS was terminated during the fourth quarter of 2008 and a realized capital gain of $13.2 million was recorded. On September 16, 2008, the United States government took control of AIG, which is one of our top ten exposures. As of December 31, 2008, our exposure to AIG included fixed maturity securities and equity securities with a cost of $206.9 million and a carrying value of $132.8 million. The fixed maturity securities include $59.4 million of amortized cost and $49.9 million of carrying value of International Lease Finance Corp, $107.5 million of amortized cost and $65.3 million of carrying value of American General Finance Corp, $6.7 million of amortized cost and $2.4 million of carrying value of AIG Life Holdings (US), Inc., $15.0 million of amortized cost and $10.2 million of carrying value of 21st Century Insurance Group, and $3.3 million of amortized cost and $3.6 million of carrying value of American International Specialty Lines Insurance Company. The equity securities consist of $15.0 million of cost and $1.4 million of carrying value of International Lease Finance Corp. We have credit default swap protection on International Lease Finance Corp with a notional of $15.0 million and a fair value of $3.3 million recorded as a realized capital gain. On September 25, 2008, the United States Office of Thrift Supervision seized Washington Mutual Savings Bank ("WMSB") from Washington Mutual, Inc. ("Washington Mutual"), placed WMSB into receivership and sold WMSB to JPMorgan Chase. On September 26, 2008, Washington Mutual declared bankruptcy. As of September 30, 2008, our remaining exposure to Washington Mutual fixed maturity securities was written off. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we recorded a $69.7 million realized capital loss through the sales of fixed maturity securities and the final impairment of remaining securities. Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Quality. Valuation techniques for the fixed maturity securities portfolio vary by security type and the availability of market data. Pricing models and their underlying assumptions impact the amount and timing of unrealized gains and losses recognized, and the use of different pricing models or assumptions could produce different financial results. Valuations are generally obtained from third party pricing services and broker quotes when 72 available. For corporate bonds where quoted market prices are not available, a matrix pricing valuation approach is used. Securities are grouped into pricing categories that vary by sector, rating and average life. Each pricing category is assigned a risk spread based on studies of observable public market data or market clearing data from the investment professionals assigned to specific security classes. The expected cash flows of the security are then discounted back at the current Treasury curve plus the appropriate risk spread. Although the matrix valuation approach provides a fair valuation of each pricing category, the valuation of an individual security within each pricing category may actually be impacted by company specific factors. Certain market events that could impact the valuation of securities include issuer credit ratings, business climate, management changes, litigation and government actions, among others. Internal models specific to the asset class may also be used. Prices are then reviewed by pricing analysts for reasonableness based on asset class given observable market data. In addition, investment analysts who are familiar with specific securities review prices for reasonableness through direct interaction with external sources, recent trade activity or internal models. Monthly, all bonds placed on the "watch list" are analyzed by investment analysts or analysts that focus on troubled securities ("Workout Group"). This group then meets with the Chief Investment Officer and the Portfolio Managers to determine reasonableness of prices. The valuation of impaired bonds for which there is no quoted price is typically based on the present value of the future cash flows expected to be received. Although we believe these values reasonably reflect the fair value of those securities, the key assumptions about risk premiums, performance of underlying collateral (if any) and other market factors involve qualitative inputs. The Securities Valuation Office ("SVO") of the NAIC evaluates the bond investments of insurers for regulatory reporting purposes and assigns securities to one of six investment categories. The NAIC designations closely mirror the NRSROs credit ratings for marketable bonds. NAIC designations 1 and 2 include bonds considered investment grade by such rating organizations. Bonds are considered investment grade when rated "Baa3" or higher by Moodys, or "BBB " or higher by Standard & Poors. NAIC designations 3 through 6 are referred to as below investment grade. Bonds are considered below investment grade when rated "Ba1" or lower by Moodys, or "BB+" or lower by Standard & Poors. As of December 31, 2008, the percentage, based on fair value, of total publicly traded and privately placed fixed maturity securities that were investment grade with an NAIC designation 1 or 2 was 95%. The following table presents our total fixed maturity securities by NAIC designation and the equivalent ratings of the NRSROs as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, as well as the percentage, based on fair value, that each designation comprises: December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 NAIC rating Rating agency equivalent Amortized cost Carrying amount % of total carrying amount Amortized cost Carrying amount % of total carrying amount ($ in millions) 1 Aaa/Aa/A $ 25,981.0 $ 22,116.9 57 % $ 25,635.0 $ 25,644.1 57 % 2 Baa 17,669.2 14,675.2 38 16,661.8 16,742.0 38 3 Ba 2,469.8 1,760.6 5 1,904.7 1,872.0 4 4 B 254.2 163.9 179.0 179.4 1 5 Caa and lower 109.7 62.3 103.1 99.3 6 In or near default 71.2 47.5 12.0 11.9 Total fixed maturity securities $ 46,555.1 $ 38,826.4 100 % $ 44,495.6 $ 44,548.7 100 % Fixed maturity securities include 16 securities with an amortized cost of $135.1 million, gross gains of $2.3 million, gross losses of $7.4 million and a carrying amount of $130.0 million as of December 31, 2008, that are still pending a review and assignment of a rating by the SVO. Due to the timing of when fixed maturity securities are purchased, legal documents are filed and the review by the SVO is completed, there will always be securities in our portfolio that are unrated over a reporting period. In these instances, an equivalent rating is assigned based on our fixed income analysts assessment. Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities and Home Equity Asset Backed Securities Portfolios. As of December 31, 2008, based on amortized cost, 89% of our CMBS portfolio had ratings of A or higher and 60% was issued in 2005 or before and 78% of our ABS home equity portfolio had ratings of A or higher and 85% was issued in 2005 or before. 73 The following table presents credit quality and year of issuance ("vintage") for our CMBS: December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Amortized cost Carrying amount Amortized cost Carrying amount (in millions) Lowest agency rating AAA $ 3,558.3 $ 2,757.0 $ 2,818.8 $ 2,829.6 AA 812.7 373.4 645.3 631.3 A 673.0 270.8 636.4 601.4 BBB 555.3 179.7 569.8 504.8 BB and below 86.0 26.2 84.1 98.5 Total by lowest agency rating $ 5,685.3 $ 3,607.1 $ 4,754.4 $ 4,665.6 Vintage 2003 and prior $ 1,888.6 $ 1,587.2 $ 2,092.9 $ 2,174.9 2004 586.3 393.5 545.6 523.4 2005 913.6 547.9 716.2 683.4 2006 (1) 563.4 282.8 428.2 389.7 2007 (1) 1,642.3 750.4 971.5 894.2 2008 91.1 45.3 Total by vintage $ 5,685.3 $ 3,607.1 $ 4,754.4 $ 4,665.6 (1)As of December 31, 2008, 56% of the 2006 vintage are rated AAA and 12% are rated AA, and 63% of the 2007 vintage are rated AAA and 18% are rated AA. The following table presents our exposure to ABS home equity portfolio supported by subprime first lien mortgages by credit quality and vintage: December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Amortized cost Carrying amount Amortized cost Carrying amount (in millions) Lowest agency rating AAA $ 281.8 $ 201.5 $ 454.4 $ 434.1 AA 94.0 56.0 105.1 90.9 A 47.6 28.2 31.4 27.4 BBB 89.3 43.8 8.1 4.6 BB and below 32.4 17.2 Total by lowest agency rating $ 545.1 $ 346.7 $ 599.0 $ 557.0 Vintage 2003 and prior $ 270.2 $ 197.9 $ 307.6 $ 290.2 2004 91.1 53.7 104.3 100.2 2005 101.8 54.9 107.6 97.6 2006 18.8 10.3 16.3 15.7 2007 63.2 29.9 63.2 53.3 Total by vintage $ 545.1 $ 346.7 $ 599.0 $ 557.0 Fixed Maturity Securities Watch List. We monitor any decline in the credit quality of fixed maturity securities through the designation of "problem securities," "potential problem securities" and "restructured securities". We define problem securities in our fixed maturity portfolio as securities: (i) as to which principal and or interest payments are in default or where default is perceived to be imminent in the near term, or (ii) issued by a company that went into bankruptcy subsequent to the acquisition of such securities. We define potential problem securities in our fixed maturity portfolio as securities included on an internal "watch list" for which management has concerns as to the ability of the issuer to comply with the present debt payment terms and which may result in the security becoming a problem or being restructured. The decision whether to classify a performing fixed maturity security as a potential problem involves significant subjective judgments by our management as to the likely future industry conditions and developments with respect to the issuer. We define restructured securities in our fixed maturity portfolio as securities where a concession has been granted to the borrower related to the borrowers financial difficulties that would not have otherwise been considered. We determine that restructures should occur in those instances where greater economic value will be realized under the new terms than through liquidation or other disposition and may involve a change in contractual cash flows. If, at the time of restructure, 74 the present value of the new future cash flows is less than the current cost of the asset being restructured, a realized capital loss is recorded in net income and a new cost basis is established. The following table presents the total carrying amount of our fixed maturity securities portfolio, as well as its problem, potential problem and restructured fixed maturities for the periods indicated: December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 ($ in millions) Total fixed maturity securities (public and private) $ 38,826.4 $ 44,548.7 Problem fixed maturity securities (1) $ 83.3 $ 13.1 Potential problem fixed maturity securities 165.7 29.2 Restructured fixed maturity securities 3.1 5.9 Total problem, potential problem and restructured fixed maturity securities $ 252.1 $ 48.2 Total problem, potential problem and restructured fixed maturity securities as a percent of total fixed maturity securities .65 % .11 % (1)The problem fixed maturity securities carrying amount is net of other than temporary impairment losses recorded as net realized capital losses in the consolidated statements of operations. Fixed Maturity Securities Impairments. We have a process in place to identify securities that could potentially have a credit impairment that is other than temporary. This process involves monitoring market events that could impact issuers credit ratings, business climate, management changes, litigation and government actions and other similar factors. This process also involves monitoring late payments, pricing levels, downgrades by rating agencies, key financial ratios, financial statements, revenue forecasts and cash flow projections as indicators of credit issues. Every month, a group of individuals including the Chief Investment Officer, our Portfolio Managers, members of our Workout Group and representatives from Investment Accounting review all securities to determine whether an other than temporary decline in value exists and whether losses should be recognized. The analysis focuses on each issuers ability to service its debts in a timely fashion. Formal documentation of the analysis and our decision is prepared and approved by management. We consider relevant facts and circumstances in evaluating whether a credit or interest rate related impairment of a security is other than temporary. Relevant facts and circumstances considered include: (1) the extent and length of time the fair value has been below cost; (2) the reasons for the decline in value; (3) the financial position and access to capital of the issuer, including the current and future impact of any specific events and (4) our ability and intent to hold the security for a period of time that allows for the recovery in value which, in some cases, may extend to maturity. To the extent we determine that a security is deemed to be other than temporarily impaired, the difference between amortized cost and fair value would be charged to net income. There are a number of significant risks and uncertainties inherent in the process of monitoring credit impairments and determining if an impairment is other than temporary. These risks and uncertainties include: (1) the risk that our assessment of an issuers ability to meet all of its contractual obligations will change based on changes in the credit characteristics of that issuer, (2) the risk that the economic outlook will be worse than expected or have more of an impact on the issuer than anticipated, (3) the risk that our investment professionals are making decisions based on fraudulent or misstated information in the financial statements provided by issuers and (4) the risk that new information obtained by us or changes in other facts and circumstances lead us to change our intent to hold the security to maturity or until it recovers in value. Any of these situations could result in a charge to net income in a future period. The net realized loss relating to other than temporary credit impairments of fixed maturity securities was $397.0 million and $207.3 million for the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. For the year ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, we realized $16.1 million and $34.6 million of gross realized losses upon disposal of bonds excluding hedging adjustments. Included in the 2008 loss is $13.7 million related to sales of sixteen names that experienced credit deterioration during the period. Included in the 2007 loss is $32.3 million related to sales of forty two credit impaired and credit related names. We generally intend to hold securities in unrealized loss positions until they mature or recover. However, we do sell bonds under certain circumstances, such as when we have evidence of a significant deterioration in the issuers creditworthiness, when a change in regulatory requirements modifies what constitutes a permissible investment or the maximum level of investments held or when there is an increase in capital requirements or a change in risk weights of debt securities. Sales generate both gains and losses. 75  Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale The following tables present our fixed maturity securities available for sale by industry category and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses as of December 31, 2008 and 2007. December 31, 2008 Amortized cost Gross unrealized gains Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount (in millions) Finance Banking $ 4,248.7 $ 14.9 $ 1,095.1 $ 3,168.5 Finance Brokerage 785.4 0.9 128.5 657.8 Finance Finance Companies 418.6 0.1 84.7 334.0 Finance Financial Other 753.3 6.8 104.6 655.5 Finance Insurance 2,885.8 38.1 706.6 2,217.3 Finance REITS 1,412.5 430.6 981.9 Industrial Basic Industry 2,030.0 10.6 303.8 1,736.8 Industrial Capital Goods 2,322.3 15.1 316.8 2,020.6 Industrial Communications 2,943.7 32.3 297.0 2,679.0 Industrial Consumer Cyclical 2,023.8 18.7 338.7 1,703.8 Industrial Consumer Non Cyclical 3,184.7 31.2 298.5 2,917.4 Industrial Energy 1,958.0 9.6 224.5 1,743.1 Industrial Other 952.8 2.4 117.6 837.6 Industrial Technology 876.7 2.2 115.3 763.6 Industrial Transportation 992.2 10.3 124.5 878.0 Utility Electric 2,473.4 22.8 199.2 2,297.0 Utility Natural Gas 1,142.0 4.9 110.7 1,036.2 Utility Other 156.7 2.3 14.3 144.7 Government guaranteed 799.5 75.0 57.0 817.5 Total corporate securities 32,360.1 298.2 5,068.0 27,590.3 Residential pass through securities 1,627.5 50.5 0.5 1,677.5 Commercial mortgage backed securities 5,682.7 3.7 2,081.9 3,604.5 Residential collateralized mortgage obligations (1) 950.8 6.4 188.6 768.6 Asset backed securities Home equity (2) 545.1 0.1 198.5 346.7 Asset backed securities All other 816.1 16.8 137.2 695.7 Collateralized debt obligations Credit 202.8 123.6 79.2 Collateralized debt obligations CMBS 302.2 173.3 128.9 Collateralized debt obligations Loans 91.4 54.4 37.0 Collateralized debt obligations ABS (3) 100.0 0.2 53.5 46.7 Total mortgage backed and other asset backed securities 10,318.6 77.7 3,011.5 7,384.8 U.S. Government and agencies 548.4 46.9 0.1 595.2 States and political subdivisions 2,113.8 32.6 120.9 2,025.5 Non U.S. governments 462.1 31.5 15.1 478.5 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ 45,803.0 $ 486.9 $ 8,215.6 $ 38,074.3 (1)Includes exposure to Alt a mortgage loans with an amortized cost of $67.3 million, gross unrealized losses of $17.3 million and a carrying amount of $50.0 million. The Alt a portfolio has a weighted average rating of AA and 66% are 2005 and prior vintages. (2)This exposure is all related to sub prime mortgage loans. (3)Includes exposure to sub prime mortgage loans with an amortized cost of $66.4 million, gross unrealized gains of $0.1 million, gross unrealized losses of $46.6 million and a carrying amount of $19.9 million. 76 December 31, 2007 Amortized cost Gross unrealized gains Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount (in millions) Finance Banking $ 4,228.8 $ 46.0 $ 176.7 $ 4,098.1 Finance Brokerage 1,041.2 9.9 25.7 1,025.4 Finance Finance Companies 572.0 5.4 46.4 531.0 Finance Financial Other 685.1 43.3 7.6 720.8 Finance Insurance 2,954.6 90.8 65.8 2,979.6 Finance REITS 1,424.6 7.4 57.3 1,374.7 Industrial Basic Industry 1,814.4 52.5 35.9 1,831.0 Industrial Capital Goods 2,176.2 71.9 23.7 2,224.4 Industrial Communications 3,033.4 142.4 31.9 3,143.9 Industrial Consumer Cyclical 1,941.7 34.7 53.9 1,922.5 Industrial Consumer Non Cyclical 2,744.3 93.2 35.2 2,802.3 Industrial Energy 1,866.4 96.9 11.3 1,952.0 Industrial Other 1,046.4 14.6 13.9 1,047.1 Industrial Technology 611.8 8.1 7.7 612.2 Industrial Transportation 1,086.9 44.3 24.4 1,106.8 Utility Electric 2,168.1 79.6 18.4 2,229.3 Utility Natural Gas 1,049.8 47.7 10.1 1,087.4 Utility Other 87.0 5.6 3.7 88.9 Government guaranteed 819.1 68.2 6.4 880.9 Total corporate securities 31,351.8 962.5 656.0 31,658.3 Residential pass through securities 1,481.5 23.6 9.0 1,496.1 Commercial mortgage backed securities 4,754.4 107.4 196.2 4,665.6 Residential collateralized mortgage obligations (1) 947.7 3.3 14.1 936.9 Asset backed securities Home equity (2) 599.0 0.1 42.1 557.0 Asset backed securities All other 892.6 19.1 8.3 903.4 Collateralized debt obligations Credit 735.4 0.1 123.6 611.9 Collateralized debt obligations CMBS 332.7 1.4 71.6 262.5 Collateralized debt obligations Loans 88.8 5.7 83.1 Collateralized debt obligations ABS (3) 94.1 30.1 64.0 Total mortgage backed and other asset backed securities 9,926.2 155.0 500.7 9,580.5 U.S. Government and agencies 628.5 29.0 0.1 657.4 States and political subdivisions 1,867.6 39.1 10.2 1,896.5 Non U.S. governments 419.4 35.7 1.2 453.9 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ 44,193.5 $ 1,221.3 $ 1,168.2 $ 44,246.6 (1)Includes exposure to Alt a mortgage loans with an amortized cost of $78.7 million, gross unrealized gains of $0.4 million, gross unrealized losses of $4.1 million and a carrying amount of $75.0 million. All of these securities are rated AAA and 62% are 2005 and prior vintages. (2)This exposure is all related to sub prime mortgage loans. (3)Includes exposure to sub prime mortgage loans with an amortized cost of $79.1 million, gross unrealized losses of $28.8 million and a carrying amount of $50.3 million. Of the $8,215.6 million in gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2008, there were $46.3 million in losses attributed to securities scheduled to mature in one year or less, $1,191.7 million attributed to securities scheduled to mature between one to five years, $1,826.9 million attributed to securities scheduled to mature between five to ten years, $2,139.2 million attributed to securities scheduled to mature after ten years and $3,011.5 million related to mortgage backed and other ABS that are not classified by maturity year. The credit disruption in the market that began in the last half of 2007 from concerns in the sub prime markets, and continued into 2008 with concerns in the leveraged finance markets has led to reduced liquidity and wider credit spreads. These credit concerns led to a widespread forced selling into a very thinly traded market which further strained market liquidity. This market disruption lowered valuations and, as a result, we have seen an increase in unrealized losses in our securities portfolio. The losses were more pronounced in the Finance sectors and in structured products such as collateralized debt obligations, ABS and CMBS. The decline in value in large part reflects the illiquid markets. Future changes in the fair value of these securities will be dependent on the return of market liquidity and changes in general 77 market conditions, including interest rates and credit spread movements. Due to the issuers continued satisfaction of the securities obligations in accordance with their contractual terms, the expectation that they will continue to do so given the evaluation of the fundamentals of the issuers financial condition and other objective evidence and managements intent and ability to hold these securities to recovery, we concluded that the prices of the securities in our securities portfolio were temporarily depressed. As discussed previously, a significant contributor to the low investment valuations and the resulting unrealized losses is market illiquidity. We have estimated the effect of the market illiquidity on significant portions of our investment portfolio by measuring the difference between valuations provided by the cash bond market and those provided by the synthetic market for a portion of the corporate bond and CMBS securities held in our investment portfolio. In the current market environment the synthetic market has more liquidity than the cash bond market. Corporate Bonds. The population for the corporate bond analysis included corporate debentures we own from the Finance, Industrial and Utility sectors and excluded redeemable preferred stock, government guaranteed securities, securities with a structured component, and other securities without the necessary relevant data. This population had an amortized cost of $30,269.8 million, carrying value of $25,689.4 million, and a net unrealized loss of $4,580.4 million as of December 31, 2008. The market illiquidity was estimated using CDS spreads. For 62% of the population we used name specific CDS spreads and for the remainder we used relevant sector specific CDS spreads. We estimated that the decline in value of this population attributable to market illiquidity was $3,372.5 million. Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities. The population for our CMBS analysis included principal and interest bonds but excluded interest only bonds as of December 31, 2008. This population had an amortized cost of $4,585.7 million, carrying value of $2,806.0 million, and a net unrealized loss of $1,779.7 million. The market illiquidity was estimated using the commercial mortgage backed security index (CMBX) spreads for various vintage and rating buckets. We estimated that the decline in value of this population attributable to market illiquidity was $814.6 million. Fixed Maturity Available for Sale Securities Unrealized Losses. We believe that our long term fixed maturity securities portfolio is well diversified among industry types and between publicly traded and privately placed securities. Each year, we direct the majority of our net cash inflows into investment grade fixed maturity securities. The net cash inflows into investment grade fixed maturity securities are less than prior years due to us investing in more liquid investments. Our current policy is to limit the percentage of cash flow invested in below investment grade assets to 10% of cash flow. As of December 31, 2008, we had invested 4.2% of new cash flow for the year in below investment grade assets. While the general account investment returns have improved due to the below investment grade asset class, we manage its growth strategically by limiting it to no more than 10% of the total fixed maturity securities portfolios. We invest in privately placed fixed maturity securities to enhance the overall value of the portfolio, increase diversification and obtain higher yields than are possible with comparable quality public market securities. Generally, private placements provide broader access to management information, strengthened negotiated protective covenants, call protection features and, where applicable, a higher level of collateral. They are, however, generally not freely tradable because of restrictions imposed by federal and state securities laws and illiquid trading markets. The following table presents our fixed maturity securities available for sale by investment grade and below investment grade and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses for the time periods indicated. December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Amortized cost Gross unrealized gains Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Amortized cost Gross unrealized gains Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount (in millions) Investment grade: Public $ 28,981.9 $ 308.3 $ 4,253.1 $ 25,037.1 $ 27,623.6 $ 747.4 $ 563.9 $ 27,807.1 Private 13,916.2 175.9 3,089.2 11,002.9 14,371.1 415.7 509.9 14,276.9 Below investment grade: Public 1,319.4 1.6 385.5 935.5 1,117.2 27.3 63.7 1,080.8 Private 1,585.5 1.1 487.8 1,098.8 1,081.6 30.9 30.7 1,081.8 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ 45,803.0 $ 486.9 $ 8,215.6 $ 38,074.3 $ 44,193.5 $ 1,221.3 $ 1,168.2 $ 44,246.6 78 The following tables present our investment grade fixed maturity securities available for sale and the associated gross unrealized losses by aging category for the time periods indicated. December 31, 2008 Public Private Total Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses (in millions) Three months or less $ 3,086.0 $ 194.4 $ 1,188.1 $ 99.5 $ 4,274.1 $ 293.9 Greater than three to six months 4,213.7 467.9 1,673.6 236.4 5,887.3 704.3 Greater than six to nine months 3,014.0 620.7 1,566.6 290.6 4,580.6 911.3 Greater than nine to twelve months 2,321.0 743.0 1,259.7 460.1 3,580.7 1,203.1 Greater than twelve to twenty four months 3,042.0 1,507.5 2,217.1 1,519.7 5,259.1 3,027.2 Greater than twenty four to thirty six months 1,045.2 296.1 312.5 217.1 1,357.7 513.2 Greater than thirty six months 1,363.8 423.5 698.2 265.8 2,062.0 689.3 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ 18,085.7 $ 4,253.1 $ 8,915.8 $ 3,089.2 $ 27,001.5 $ 7,342.3 December 31, 2007 Public Private Total Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses (in millions) Three months or less $ 2,829.6 $ 69.3 $ 1,585.5 $ 38.6 $ 4,415.1 $ 107.9 Greater than three to six months 1,233.1 86.4 1,075.4 123.0 2,308.5 209.4 Greater than six to nine months 1,460.9 109.3 1,285.7 123.1 2,746.6 232.4 Greater than nine to twelve months 993.2 74.6 719.4 107.0 1,712.6 181.6 Greater than twelve to twenty four months 1,511.2 98.4 614.7 47.8 2,125.9 146.2 Greater than twenty four to thirty six months 3,049.7 104.3 1,119.6 58.0 4,169.3 162.3 Greater than thirty six months 607.9 21.6 364.2 12.4 972.1 34.0 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ 11,685.6 $ 563.9 $ 6,764.5 $ 509.9 $ 18,450.1 $ 1,073.8 The following tables present our below investment grade fixed maturity securities available for sale and the associated gross unrealized losses by aging category for the time periods indicated. December 31, 2008 Public Private Total Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses (in millions) Three months or less $ 133.1 $ 56.5 $ 114.6 $ 32.1 $ 247.7 $ 88.6 Greater than three to six months 88.8 12.7 297.1 74.3 385.9 87.0 Greater than six to nine months 102.5 42.9 129.1 46.5 231.6 89.4 Greater than nine to twelve months 163.0 65.9 44.5 43.7 207.5 109.6 Greater than twelve to twenty four months 242.0 151.7 351.8 239.5 593.8 391.2 Greater than twenty four to thirty six months 41.2 26.1 13.3 21.4 54.5 47.5 Greater than thirty six months 100.3 29.7 100.9 30.3 201.2 60.0 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ 870.9 $ 385.5 $ 1,051.3 $ 487.8 $ 1,922.2 $ 873.3 79 December 31, 2007 Public Private Total Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses (in millions) Three months or less $ 95.4 $ 4.0 $ 187.0 $ 5.5 $ 282.4 $ 9.5 Greater than three to six months 62.8 2.6 115.6 5.4 178.4 8.0 Greater than six to nine months 123.2 22.7 98.6 3.1 221.8 25.8 Greater than nine to twelve months 91.5 11.3 17.3 0.7 108.8 12.0 Greater than twelve to twenty four months 57.0 11.1 21.7 13.0 78.7 24.1 Greater than twenty four to thirty six months 138.3 11.4 72.9 2.1 211.2 13.5 Greater than thirty six months 16.5 0.6 26.6 0.9 43.1 1.5 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ 584.7 $ 63.7 $ 539.7 $ 30.7 $ 1,124.4 $ 94.4 The following tables present the carrying amount and the gross unrealized losses on fixed maturity securities available for sale where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more as the time periods indicate. December 31, 2008 Problem, potential problem, and restructured All other fixed maturity securities Total Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses (in millions) Three months or less $ 53.7 $ 70.2 $ 6,433.5 $ 3,133.6 $ 6,487.2 $ 3,203.8 Greater than three to six months 27.5 28.5 1,374.2 1,314.6 1,401.7 1,343.1 Greater than six to nine months 6.1 14.5 279.3 415.5 285.4 430.0 Greater than nine to twelve months 11.5 10.3 486.8 904.1 498.3 914.4 Greater than twelve months 3.5 6.5 111.3 435.2 114.8 441.7 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ 102.3 $ 130.0 $ 8,685.1 $ 6,203.0 $ 8,787.4 $ 6,333.0 December 31, 2007 Problem, potential problem, and restructured All other fixed maturity securities Total Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses (in millions) Three months or less $ $ $ 670.2 $ 240.2 $ 670.2 $ 240.2 Greater than three to six months 110.7 80.9 110.7 80.9 Greater than six to nine months 0.5 0.3 0.5 0.3 Greater than nine to twelve months Greater than twelve months Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ $ $ 781.4 $ 321.4 $ 781.4 $ 321.4 Mortgage Loans Mortgage loans consist primarily of commercial mortgage loans on real estate. The carrying amount of our commercial mortgage loan portfolio was $11,279.3 million and $10,763.5 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Commercial mortgage loans on real estate are generally reported at cost adjusted for amortization of premiums and accrual of discounts, computed using the interest method and net of valuation allowances. Commercial mortgage loans held for sale are carried at the lower of cost or fair value, less cost to sell, and reported as mortgage loans in the statements of financial position. Commercial mortgage loans play an important role in our investment strategy by: providing strong risk adjusted relative value in comparison to other investment alternatives; enhancing total returns and 80 providing strategic portfolio diversification. As a result, we have focused on constructing a solid, high quality portfolio of mortgages. Our portfolio is generally comprised of mortgages with conservative loan to value ratios, high debt service coverages and general purpose property types with a strong credit tenancy. Our commercial mortgage loan portfolio consists of primarily non recourse, fixed rate mortgages on fully or near fully leased properties. The mortgage portfolio is comprised primarily of credit oriented retail properties, manufacturing office properties and general purpose industrial properties. In addition, we have a $261.3 million short term high rate portfolio of mortgages held by the spread business within the Global Asset Management segment. For geographic and property type distribution of our commercial mortgage loans, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 6, Investments." Credit extensions in the state of California accounted for 20% of our commercial mortgage loan portfolio as of December 31, 2008. We are, therefore, exposed to potential losses resulting from the risk of catastrophes, such as earthquakes, that may affect the region. Like other lenders, we generally do not require earthquake insurance for properties on which we make commercial mortgage loans. With respect to California properties, however, we obtain an engineering report specific to each property. The report assesses the buildings design specifications, whether it has been upgraded to meet seismic building codes and the maximum loss that is likely to result from a variety of different seismic events. We also obtain a report that assesses, by building and geographic fault lines, the amount of loss our commercial mortgage loan portfolio might suffer under a variety of seismic events. Our commercial loan portfolio is highly diversified by borrower. As of December 31, 2008, 30% of the commercial mortgage loan portfolio was comprised of mortgage loans with principal balances of less than $10.0 million. The total number of commercial mortgage loans outstanding was 1,223 and 1,254 as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The average loan size of our commercial mortgage portfolio was $9.3 million as of December 31, 2008. Commercial Mortgage Loan Credit Monitoring. We actively monitor and manage our commercial mortgage loan portfolio. Substantially all loans within the portfolio are analyzed regularly and are internally rated, based on a proprietary risk rating cash flow model, in order to monitor the financial quality of these assets. Based on ongoing monitoring, mortgage loans with a likelihood of becoming delinquent are identified and placed on an internal "watch list". Among criteria which would indicate a potential problem are: imbalances in ratios of loan to value or contract rents to debt service, major tenant vacancies or bankruptcies, borrower sponsorship problems, late payments, delinquent taxes and loan relief/restructuring requests. We review our mortgage loan portfolio and analyze the need for a valuation allowance for any loan which is delinquent for 60 days or more, in process of foreclosure, restructured, on the "watch list" or which currently has a valuation allowance. We categorize loans that are 60 days or more delinquent, loans in process of foreclosure, and loans to borrowers in bankruptcy that are delinquent as "problem" loans. Valuation allowances have been recognized on problem loans. Potential problem loans are loans placed on an internal "watch list" for which management has concerns as to the ability of the borrower to comply with the present loan payment terms and which may result in the loan becoming a problem or being restructured. The decision whether to classify a performing loan as a potential problem involves significant subjective judgments by management as to the likely future economic conditions and developments with respect to the borrower. We categorize loans for which the original Note Rate or Pay Rate of the mortgages have been reduced as "restructured" loans. We also consider matured loans that are refinanced at below market rates as restructured. The following table presents the carrying amounts of problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages relative to the carrying amount of all commercial mortgages for the periods indicated: December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 ($ in millions) Total commercial mortgages $ 11,279.3 $ 10,763.5 Problem commercial mortgages (1) $ 69.0 $ 35.8 Potential problem commercial mortgages (2) 110.0 14.5 Restructured commercial mortgages (3) 5.5 14.8 Total problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages $ 184.5 $ 65.1 Total problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages as a percent of total commercial mortgages 1.64 % .60 % (1)Includes three mortgages held within the Global Asset Management segment as of December 31, 2008 and two mortgages held within the Global Asset Management segment as of December 31, 2007. One of these loans totaling $26.0 million was in foreclosure as of December 31, 2008, and one mortgage loan totaling $13.0 million was in 81 foreclosure as of December 31, 2007. The loan in foreclosure as of December 31, 2008, was not in foreclosure as of December 31, 2007. (2)Potential problem commercial mortgages include $48.0 million in mortgages held by the Global Asset Management segment at December 31, 2008, and $14.5 million at December 31, 2007. (3)Includes one mortgage held within the Global Asset Management segment totaling $5.5 million at December 31, 2008, and $8.1 million at December 31, 2007. Commercial Mortgage Loan Valuation Allowance The valuation allowance for commercial mortgage loans includes a loan specific allowance for impaired loans and a provision for losses based on past loss experience believed to be adequate to absorb estimated probable credit losses. The changes in the valuation allowance are reported in net income on our consolidated statements of operations. Commercial mortgage loans on real estate are considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to contractual terms of the loan agreement. When we determine that a loan is impaired, a valuation allowance is established for the difference between the carrying amount of the mortgage loan and the estimated value. Estimated value is based on either the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at the loans effective interest rate, the loans observable market price or fair value of the collateral. When a valuation allowance is established, subsequent recoveries are credited to the valuation allowance and subsequent losses may be charged to the valuation allowance. The determination of the calculation and the adequacy of the mortgage loan loss provision based on past experience and current portfolio statistics are subjective. Our periodic evaluation and assessment of the adequacy of the provision for losses and the need for mortgage impairments is based on known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrowers ability to repay, the estimated value of the underlying collateral, composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions, loss experience and other relevant factors. The evaluation of our impaired loan component of the allowance is subjective, as it requires estimating the amounts and timing of future cash flows expected to be received on impaired loans. The current portfolio statistics and past loss experience produced a commercial mortgage loan general valuation allowance for the Principal Life general account totaling $30.1 million. Our financial position is sensitive to changes in estimated cash flows from mortgages, the value of the collateral and changes in the economic environment in general. The valuation allowance for PFG increased by $14.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2008, and increased by $10.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2007. These increases are primarily related to net specific reserves taken on certain problem loans of $16.2 million and $10.0 million as of December 31, 2008, and December 31, 2007, respectively. The following table represents our commercial mortgage valuation allowance for the periods indicated: December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 ($ in millions) Balance, beginning of period $ 42.8 $ 32.2 Provision 42.9 10.8 Releases (28.7 ) (0.2 ) Balance, end of period $ 57.0 $ 42.8 Valuation allowance as % of carrying value before reserves .50 % .40 % Real Estate Real estate consists primarily of commercial equity real estate. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the carrying amount of equity real estate investment was $915.2 million and $859.6 million, respectively, or 1% of U.S. invested assets. Our commercial equity real estate is held in the form of wholly owned real estate, real estate acquired upon foreclosure of commercial mortgage loans and majority owned interests in real estate joint ventures. Equity real estate is categorized as either "real estate held for investment" or "real estate held for sale." Real estate held for investment totaled $779.8 million and $777.2 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The carrying value of real estate held for investment is generally adjusted for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. Such impairment adjustments are recorded as net realized losses and, accordingly, are reflected in our consolidated results of operations. For the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, there were no such impairment adjustments. 82  The carrying amount of real estate held for sale as of December 31, 2008, was $135.4 million, net of valuation allowance of $3.5 million. The carrying amount of real estate held for sale as of December 31, 2007, was $82.4 million. There was no valuation allowance at December 31, 2007. Once we identify a real estate property to be sold and commence a plan for marketing the property, we classify the property as held for sale. We establish a valuation allowance subject to periodic revisions, if necessary, to adjust the carrying value of the property to reflect the lower of its current carrying value or the fair value, less associated selling costs. We use research, both internal and external, to recommend appropriate product and geographic allocations and changes to the equity real estate portfolio. We monitor product, geographic and industry diversification separately and together to determine the most appropriate mix. Equity real estate is distributed across geographic regions of the country with larger concentrations in the South Atlantic, West South Central and Pacific regions of the United States as of December 31, 2008. By property type, there is a concentration in office, industrial site buildings, and retail that represented approximately 79% of the equity real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2008. Other Investments Our other investments totaled $2,162.4 million as of December 31, 2008, compared to $1,391.4 million as of December 31, 2007. Derivatives accounted for $1,873.2 million in other investments as of December 31, 2008. The remaining invested assets include equity method investments, which include properties owned jointly with venture partners and operated by the partners. International Investment Operations Of our invested assets, $3.3 billion were held by our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment as of December 31, 2008. Our international investment operations consist of the investments of Principal International. Principal Global Investors advises each Principal International affiliate on investment policies and strategies that are consistent with the products they offer. Due to the regulatory constraints in each country, each company maintains its own investment policies. As shown in the following table, the major categories of international invested assets as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, were fixed maturity securities, other investments and residential mortgage loans. The following discussion analyzes the composition of general account assets, but excludes invested assets of the separate accounts. December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Carrying amount % of total Carrying amount % of total ($ in millions) Fixed maturity securities Public $ 2,134.2 64 % $ 2,719.5 67 % Equity securities 40.8 1 52.7 1 Mortgage loans Residential 479.9 14 558.6 14 Real estate 4.2 2.9 Policy loans 15.0 1 16.2 Other investments 654.2 20 727.2 18 Total invested assets 3,328.3 100 % 4,077.1 100 % Cash and cash equivalents 71.0 82.9 Total invested assets and cash $ 3,399.3 $ 4,160.0 Investments in equity method subsidiaries and direct financing leases accounted for $377.2 million and $265.4 million, respectively, of other investments as of December 31, 2008. Investments in equity method subsidiaries and direct financing leases accounted for $455.6 million and $256.3 million, respectively, of other investments as of December 31, 2007. The remaining invested assets as of December 31, 2008, and December 31, 2007, are primarily related to derivatives and seed money.  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Market Risk Exposures and Risk Management Market risk is the risk that we will incur losses due to adverse fluctuations in market rates and prices. Our primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates, although we also have exposures to changes in equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. 83 We enter into market sensitive instruments for purposes other than trading. The active management of market risk is an integral part of our operations. We manage our overall market risk exposure within established risk tolerance ranges by using the following approaches: rebalance our existing asset or liability portfolios; control the risk structure of newly acquired assets and liabilities or use derivative instruments to modify the market risk characteristics of existing assets or liabilities or assets expected to be purchased. Interest Rate Risk Interest rate risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse changes in interest rates. One source of interest rate risk is the inherent difficulty in obtaining assets that mature or have their rate reset at the exact same time as the liabilities they support. Assets may have to be reinvested or sold in the future to meet the liability cash flows in unknown interest rate environments. Secondly, there may be timing differences between when new liabilities are priced and when assets are purchased or procured that can cause fluctuations in profitability if interest rates move materially in the interim. A third source of interest rate risk is the prepayment options embedded within asset and liability contracts that can alter the cash flow profiles from what was originally expected. One of the measures we use to quantify our exposure to interest rate risk is duration. To calculate duration, we project asset and liability cash flows. These cash flows are discounted to a net present value basis using a spot yield curve, which is a blend of the spot yield curves for each of the asset types in the portfolio. Duration is calculated by re calculating these cash flows, re determining the net present value based upon an alternative level of interest rates, and determining the percentage change in fair value. We manage interest rate risks in a number of ways. Differences in durations between assets and liabilities are measured and kept within acceptable tolerances. Derivatives are also commonly used to mitigate interest rate risk due to cash flow mismatches and timing differences. Prepayment risk is controlled by limiting our exposure to investments that are prepayable without penalty prior to maturity at the option of the issuer. We also require additional yield on these investments to compensate for the risk the issuer will exercise such option. Prepayment risk is also controlled by limiting the sales of liabilities with features such as puts or other options that can be exercised against the company at inopportune times. For example, approximately $19.1 billion, or 98%, of our institutional GICs and funding agreements cannot be redeemed by contractholders prior to maturity. We are also exposed to interest rate risk based upon the discount rate assumption used for purposes of valuing our pension and other postretirement benefit obligations. For further discussion of interest rate risk associated with these obligations, see Item 7. "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Benefit Plans." Duration Managed. Our exposure to interest rate risk stems largely from our substantial holdings of guaranteed fixed rate liabilities in our U.S. Asset Accumulation segment. We actively manage the duration of assets and liabilities in these products by minimizing the difference between the two. We have established a maximum tolerance for this difference and seek to stay within this tolerance. As of December 31, 2008, the difference between the asset and liability durations on our primary duration managed portfolio was 0.17, as compared to 0.01 as of December 31, 2007. This duration gap indicates that, as of December 31, 2008, the sensitivity of the fair value of our assets to interest rate movements is less than that of the fair value of our liabilities. Our goal is to minimize the duration gap. Currently, our guidelines indicate that total duration gaps between the asset and liability portfolios should be within +/ 0.25. The value of the assets in this portfolio was $29,440.1 million and $33,183.4 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Duration Monitored. For products such as whole life insurance and term life insurance that are less sensitive to interest rate risk, and for other products such as individual single premium deferred annuities, we manage interest rate risk based on a modeling process that considers the target average life, maturities, crediting rates and assumptions of policyholder behavior. As of December 31, 2008, the weighted average difference between the asset and liability durations on these portfolios was +0.09, as compared to +0.22 as of December 31, 2007. This duration gap indicates that, as of December 31, 2008, the sensitivity of the fair value of our assets to interest rate movements is greater than that of the fair value of our liabilities. We attempt to monitor this duration gap consistent with our overall risk/reward tolerances. The value of the assets in these portfolios was $18,017.3 million and $17,990.9 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Non Duration Managed. We also have a block of participating general account pension business that passes most of the actual investment performance of the assets to the customer. The investment strategy of this block is to maximize investment return to the customer on a "best efforts" basis, and there is little or no attempt to manage the duration of 84 this portfolio since there is little or no interest rate risk. The value of the assets in these portfolios was $4,866.0 million and $5,234.0 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Using the assumptions and data in effect as of December 31, 2008, we estimate that a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase in interest rates increases the net fair value of our portfolio by approximately $34.0 million, compared with an estimated $36.3 million decrease as of December 31, 2007. The following table details the estimated changes by risk management strategy. The table also gives the weighted average duration of the asset portfolio for each category, and the net duration gap (i.e., the weighted average difference between the asset and liability durations). December 31, 2008 Risk Management Strategy Value of total assets Duration of assets Net duration gap Net fair value change (in millions) (in millions) Primary duration managed $ 29,440.1 3.05 (0.17 ) $ 50.0 Duration monitored 18,017.3 4.53 0.09 (16.0 ) Non duration managed 4,866.0 5.07 N/A N/A Total $ 52,323.4 $ 34.0 Our selection of a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase or decrease in interest rates is a hypothetical rate scenario we use to demonstrate potential risk. While a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase does not represent our view of future market changes, it is a near term reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. While these fair value measurements provide a representation of interest rate sensitivity, they are based on our portfolio exposures at a point in time and may not be representative of future market results. These exposures will change as a result of ongoing portfolio transactions in response to new business, managements assessment of changing market conditions and available investment opportunities. See Item 7. "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Valuation of Invested Assets" for additional discussion of the impact interest rate increases would have on fixed maturities, available for sale. Debt Issued and Outstanding. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the aggregate fair value of long term debt was $1,096.1 million and $1,423.6 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, a 100 basis point immediate, parallel decrease in interest rates would increase the fair value of debt by approximately $59.4 million, as compared to an estimated $106.3 million increase as of December 31, 2007. Debt is not recorded at fair value on the statement of financial position. Using the assumptions and data in effect as of December 31, 2008, we estimate that a 100 basis point immediate, parallel decrease or increase in interest rates would increase or decrease, respectively, the fair value for each category of long term debt as presented in the following table. December 31, 2008 Fair value (no accrued interest) 100 basis point change No change +100 basis point change (in millions) 8.2% notes payable, due 2009 $ 469.3 $ 468.7 $ 466.0 3.31% notes payable, due 2011 51.8 50.4 49.1 3.63% notes payable, due 2011 26.7 26.0 25.4 6.05% notes payable, due 2036 450.7 404.4 365.4 8% surplus notes payable, due 2044 99.1 89.6 81.1 Non recourse mortgages and notes payable 57.3 56.4 55.6 Other mortgages and notes payable 0.6 0.6 0.6 Total long term debt $ 1,155.5 $ 1,096.1 $ 1,043.2 Our selection of a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase or decrease in interest rates is a hypothetical rate scenario we use to demonstrate potential risk. While a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase or decrease does not represent our view of future market changes, it is a near term reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. While these fair value measurements provide a representation of interest rate sensitivity, they are based on our long term debt obligations at a point in time and may not be representative of future obligations. These exposures will change as a result of ongoing changes to our outstanding long term debt obligations. Use of Derivatives to Manage Interest Rate Risk. We use various derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, including interest rate swaps, swaptions, futures, treasury lock agreements and 85 options. We use interest rate swaps and futures contracts to hedge changes in interest rates subsequent to the issuance of an insurance liability, such as a guaranteed investment contract, but prior to the purchase of a supporting asset, or during periods of holding assets in anticipation of near term liability sales. We use interest rate swaps primarily to more closely match the interest rate characteristics of assets and liabilities. They can be used to change the sensitivity to the interest rate of specific assets and liabilities as well as an entire portfolio. Prior to the termination of our commercial mortgage securities operation, we used these instruments to hedge the interest rate exposure within the operation. Occasionally, we will sell a callable investment type agreement and will use written interest rate swaptions to transform the callable liability into a fixed term liability. Foreign Currency Risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. This risk arises from foreign currency denominated funding agreements issued to nonqualified institutional investors in the international market, foreign currency denominated fixed maturity securities and demand deposits purchased and our international operations. We estimate that as of December 31, 2008, a 10% immediate unfavorable change in each of the foreign currency exchange rates to which we are exposed would result in no material change to the net fair value of our foreign currency denominated instruments identified above because we effectively hedge foreign currency denominated instruments to minimize exchange rate impacts, which is consistent with our estimate as of December 31, 2007. However, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates do affect the translation of local operating earnings and equity into our consolidated financial statements. For our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment, we estimate that a 10% immediate unfavorable change in each of the foreign currency exchange rates to which we were exposed would have resulted in a $100.3 million, or 10%, reduction in the total equity of our international operations as of December 31, 2008, as compared to an estimated $143.2 million, or 10%, reduction as of December 31, 2007. In addition, a 10% unfavorable change in the average foreign currency exchange rates to which we were exposed through our international operations would have resulted in a $12.7 million, or 10%, reduction in the annual operating earnings of our international operations for the years ended December 31, 2008, as compared to an estimated $13.1 million, or 12%, reduction for the year ended December 31, 2007. The selection of a 10% immediate unfavorable change in all currency exchange rates should not be construed as a prediction by us of future market events, but rather as an illustration of the potential impact of such an event. These exposures will change as a result of a change in the size and mix of our foreign operations. Use of Derivatives to Manage Foreign Currency Risk. The foreign currency risk on funding agreements and fixed maturity securities is mitigated by using currency swaps that swap the foreign currency interest and principal payments to our functional currency. The notional amount of our currency swap agreements associated with foreign denominated liabilities was $4,269.2 million and $4,351.7 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The notional amount of our currency swap agreements associated with foreign denominated fixed maturity securities was $2,005.4 million and $1,973.4 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. With regard to our international operations, we attempt to do as much of our business as possible in the functional currency of the country of operation. At times, however, we are unable to do so, and in these cases, we use foreign exchange derivatives to economically hedge the resulting risks. Our operations in Chile had currency swaps with a notional amount of $24.1 million as of both December 31, 2008 and 2007, that were used to swap cash flows on U.S. dollar denominated bonds to a local currency. Chile also utilized currency forwards with a notional amount of $52.1 million and $134.1 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, in order to mitigate currency exposure related to bonds denominated in currencies other than Chilean pesos. Additionally, from time to time we take measures to hedge our net equity investments in our foreign subsidiaries from currency risks. There were no outstanding net equity investment hedges in 2008 or 2007. Equity Risk Equity risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse fluctuations in a particular common stock. As of December 31, 2008 and 2007, the fair value of our equity securities was $400.7 million and $586.2 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, a 10% decline in the value of the equity securities would result in an unrealized loss of $40.1 million, as compared to an estimated unrealized loss of $58.6 million as of December 31, 2007. We are also exposed to the risk that asset based fees decrease as a result of declines in assets under management due to change in investment prices and the risk that asset management fees calculated by reference to performance could be lower. We estimate that an immediate 10% decline in the Standard & Poors index, followed by a 2% per quarter increase would reduce our annual operating earnings by approximately four to six percent. The risk of decreased asset based and asset management fees could also impact our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy 86 acquisition and other costs. For further discussion, see Item 7. "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Other Actuarial Balances." The selection of a 10% unfavorable change in the equity markets should not be construed as a prediction by us of future market events, but rather as an illustration of the potential impact of such an event. Our exposure will change as a result of changes in our mix of business. We also have equity risk associated with (1) fixed deferred annuity contracts that credit interest to customers based on changes in an external equity index; (2) variable annuity contracts that have a GMWB rider that allows the customer to receive at least the principal deposit back through withdrawals of a specified annual amount, even if the account value is reduced to zero; (3) variable annuity contacts that have a GMDB that allows the death benefit to be paid, even if the account value has fallen below the GMDB amount; (4) investment type contracts in which the return is tied to an external equity index and (5) investment type contracts in which the return is subject to minimum contractual guarantees. We are also subject to equity risk based upon the assets that support our benefit plans. For further discussion of equity risk associated with these plans, see Item 7. "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Benefit Plans." Use of Derivatives to Manage Equity Risk. We economically hedge the fixed deferred annuity product by purchasing options that match the products profile. We economically hedge the GMWB exposure using futures, options and interest rate swaps. We economically hedge the investment contract exposure to an external equity index using equity call options. The fair value of both the GMWB embedded derivative and associated hedging instruments are sensitive to financial market conditions and the variance related to the change in fair value of these items for a given period is largely dependent on market conditions at the end of the period. For the year ended December 31, 2008, we recognized a $37.4 million pre tax loss on the change in fair value of the GMWB embedded derivative and a $171.5 million pre tax gain on the derivatives used to economically hedge our GMWB market risk, which includes equity risk. The implementation of SFAS 157 in 2008 resulted in the incorporation of a spread reflecting our own creditworthiness and additional risk margins in the valuation of the GMWB embedded derivative. Throughout 2008, the spread reflecting our own credit risk increased, which drove a significant increase in the discount rates applied, thereby reducing the level of pre tax loss from fair value changes in the embedded derivative. This resulted in the pre tax loss from the fair value of the embedded derivative being significantly different than the pre tax gain from the fair value changes in the associated hedging instruments. Additionally, the net gain from the change in value of the GMWB embedded derivative and the associated hedging instruments resulted in a $45.4 million pre tax increase in DPAC amortization. Credit Risk Credit risk relates to the uncertainty associated with the continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments of principal and interest. Our ability to manage credit risk is essential to our business and our profitability. See Item 7. "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Investments" for additional information about credit risk. Use of Derivatives to Diversify or Hedge Credit Risk. We sometimes purchase credit default swaps to hedge credit exposures in our investment portfolio. We sell credit default swaps to offer credit protection to investors. When selling credit protection, if there is an event of default by the referenced name, we are obligated to pay the counterparty the referenced amount of the contract and receive in return the referenced security. For further information on credit derivatives sold, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 8, Derivative Financial Instruments." We economically hedged credit exposure in our portfolio by purchasing credit default swaps with a notional amount of $549.0 million and $63.4 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As of December 31, 2008, we did not have any credit default swaps hedging spread risk in our portfolio. At December 31, 2007, we utilized credit default swaps with a notional amount of $69.5 million to economically hedge spread risk in our portfolio. We had credit exposure through credit default swaps with a notional amount of $200.0 million as of both December 31, 2008 and 2007, by investing $200.0 million in various tranches of synthetic collateralized debt obligations. In addition, we sold credit default swaps creating replicated assets with a notional amount of $1,199.9 million and $801.9 million as of December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. Derivative Summary Notional amounts are used to express the extent of our involvement in derivative transactions and represent a standard measurement of the volume of our derivative activity. Notional amount is not a quantification of market risk or credit risk and it may not necessarily be recorded on the statement of financial position. Notional amounts represent those amounts used to calculate contractual flows to be exchanged and are not paid or received, except for contracts such as currency swaps. Actual credit exposure represents the amount owed to us under derivative contracts as of the valuation 87 date. The following tables present our position in, and credit exposure to, derivative financial instruments as of December 31, 2008 and 2007.  Derivative Financial Instruments Notional Amounts December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Notional amount % of total Notional amount % of total ($ in millions) Interest rate swaps $ 24,148.6 66 % $ 18,627.3 62 % Foreign currency swaps 6,298.7 17 6,349.2 21 Embedded derivative financial instruments 2,940.4 8 2,088.9 7 Credit default swaps 1,948.9 6 1,134.8 4 Options 797.5 2 572.0 2 Futures 161.0 1 57.7 Swaptions 94.8 488.8 2 Currency forwards 52.1 361.9 1 Commodity swaps 40.0 40.0 Treasury lock agreements 150.0 1 Total $ 36,482.0 100 % $ 29,870.6 100 %  Derivative Financial Instruments Credit Exposures December 31, 2008 December 31, 2007 Credit exposure % of total Credit exposure % of total ($ in millions) Interest rate swaps $ 1,105.1 56 % $ 286.0 24 % Foreign currency swaps 562.5 29 805.5 69 Options 222.1 11 64.4 5 Credit default swaps 70.7 4 5.6 1 Currency forwards 0.2 6.2 1 Commodity swaps 0.3 Total credit exposure 1,960.6 100 % 1,168.0 100 % Less: Collateral received 278.5 326.5 Total $ 1,682.1 $ 841.5 The following table shows the interest rate sensitivity of our derivatives measured in terms of fair value. These exposures will change as a result of ongoing portfolio and risk management activities. December 31, 2008 Fair value (no accrued interest) Notional amount Weighted average term (years) 100 basis point change No change +100 basis point change ($ in millions) Interest rate swaps $ 24,148.6 5.93 (1) $ (420.9 ) $ (362.5 ) $ (312.1 ) Futures 97.3 0.22 (2) (5.9 ) 3.1 12.0 Swaptions 94.8 11.74 (3) (15.8 ) (25.3 ) (16.2 ) Total $ 24,340.7 $ (442.6 ) $ (384.7 ) $ (316.3 ) (1)Based on maturity date of swap. (2)Based on maturity date. (3)Based on option date. We use U.S. Treasury futures to manage our over/under commitment position, and our position in these contracts changes daily. 88 Counterparty Risk In conjunction with our use of derivatives, we are exposed to counterparty risk, or the risk that the counterparty fails to perform the terms of the derivative contract. We actively manage this risk by: establishing exposure limits which take into account non derivative exposure we have with the counterparty as well as derivative exposure; performing similar credit analysis prior to approval on each derivatives counterparty that we do when lending money on a long term basis; diversifying our risk across numerous approved counterparties; limiting exposure to A+ credit or better; conducting stress test analysis to determine the maximum exposure created during the life of a prospective transaction; implementing credit support annex (collateral) agreements with selected counterparties to further limit counterparty exposures and daily monitoring of counterparty credit ratings. All new derivative counterparties are approved by the Investment Committee. We believe the risk of incurring losses due to nonperformance by our counterparties is manageable. Effects of Inflation The impact of inflation in the United States or in the other countries in which we operate, has not had a material effect on our annual consolidated operations over the past five years. However, we may be materially affected by inflation in the future. 89   
 
