Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following analysis discusses our financial condition as of December 31, 2009, compared with December 31, 2008, and our consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, and, where appropriate, factors that may affect our future financial performance. The discussion should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes to the financial statements and the other financial information included elsewhere in this Form 10 K. Forward Looking Information Our narrative analysis below contains forward looking statements intended to enhance the readers ability to assess our future financial performance. Forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that represent our beliefs concerning future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments, and contain words and phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," and similar expressions. Forward looking statements are made based upon managements current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects on us. Such forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. 33 Table of Contents Actual results may differ materially from those included in the forward looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties. Those risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to the risk factors listed in Item 1A. "Risk Factors." Overview We provide financial products and services through the following reportable segments: U.S. Asset Accumulation, which consists of our asset accumulation operations that provide retirement savings and related investment products and services. We provide a comprehensive portfolio of asset accumulation products and services to businesses and individuals in the U.S., with a concentration on small and medium sized businesses. We offer to businesses products and services for defined contribution pension plans, including 401(k) and 403(b) plans, defined benefit pension plans, nonqualified executive benefit plans and employee stock ownership plan consulting services. We also offer annuities, mutual funds and bank products and services to the employees of our business customers and other individuals. Global Asset Management, which consists of our asset management operations conducted through Principal Global Investors and its affiliates, offers an extensive range of equity, fixed income and real estate investments as well as specialized overlay and advisory services to institutional investors. International Asset Management and Accumulation, which consists of Principal International, offers retirement products and services, annuities, mutual funds, institutional asset management and life insurance accumulation products through operations in Brazil, Chile, China, Hong Kong SAR, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Mexico and Singapore. Life and Health Insurance, which provides individual life insurance, group health insurance as well as specialty benefits in the U.S. Our individual life insurance products include universal and variable universal life insurance and traditional life insurance. Our health insurance products include group medical insurance and fee for service claims administration and wellness services. Our specialty benefit products include group dental and vision insurance, individual and group disability insurance and group life insurance. Corporate, which manages the assets representing capital that has not been allocated to any other segment. Financial results of the Corporate segment primarily reflect our financing activities (including interest expense and preferred stock dividends), income on capital not allocated to other segments, inter segment eliminations, income tax risks and certain income, expenses and other after tax adjustments not allocated to the segments based on the nature of such items. Economic Factors and Trends The significant decline in the equity markets during 2008 and in early 2009, which was partially offset by positive net cash flows, led to decreases in our U.S. Asset Accumulation segments account values and our Global Asset Management segments AUM relative to year end 2007. Since account values and AUM are the base by which these businesses generate profits, the decline in account values and AUM put pressure on our profits. In our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment, we continued to grow our business organically through our existing subsidiaries and joint ventures and through strategic acquisitions. Additionally, the global credit market disruptions, market illiquidity and foreign currency depreciation during the second half of 2008 resulted in a decrease in our International Asset Management and Accumulation segments AUM in 2008 relative to 2007. AUM levels increased significantly during 2009 as a result of foreign currency appreciation, an increasing equity market and positive cash flows. In our Life and Health segment, we continue to shift the marketing emphasis of our individual life insurance business to universal life insurance products from traditional life insurance products. Our specialty benefits insurance business is experiencing a slowdown in growth relative to prior years due to a combination of lower sales and higher lapses, as well as reduced growth in salaries and the number of covered lives of our existing customers. The health insurance business is also experiencing a slowdown in growth relative to prior years due to lower sales, lapses and a reduction in the number of covered lives of our existing customers. These slowdowns are a direct reflection of the increasingly competitive marketplace and economic pressures facing our customers. The credit market disruptions that began in 2008 resulted in an increase in our realized capital losses, which are reflected in net income, and volatility of unrealized capital losses, which are reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income. Due to the aforementioned market conditions, we built additional liquidity in 2008 and into 2009 by increasing cash and cash equivalent holdings. During this period, new cash inflows were primarily invested in cash, short term government backed securities and other liquid investments. As a result of the move to increase cash holdings during the year, current yields were lower than historically experienced. Although we will continue to invest a higher percentage of our assets in more liquid investments relative to historical levels, recent market conditions have allowed us to incrementally invest in other investments that are expected to enhance investment yields. 34  Table of Contents Profitability Our profitability depends in large part upon our: amount of AUM; spreads we earn on our policyholders general account asset accumulation business that result from the difference between what we earn and what we credit; ability to generate fee revenues by providing administrative and investment management services; ability to price our life and health insurance products at a level that enables us to earn a margin over the cost of providing benefits and the related expenses; ability to manage our investment portfolio to maximize investment returns and minimize risks such as interest rate changes or defaults or impairments of invested assets; ability to effectively hedge fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates on certain transactions and ability to manage our operating expenses. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The increasing complexity of the business environment and applicable authoritative accounting guidance requires us to closely monitor our accounting policies. Our significant accounting policies are described in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1, Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies." We have identified seven critical accounting policies that are complex and require significant judgment and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. A summary of our critical accounting policies is intended to enhance the readers ability to assess our financial condition and results of operations and the potential volatility due to changes in estimates and changes in guidance. The identification, selection and disclosure of critical accounting estimates and policies have been discussed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Valuation and Impairment of Fixed Income Investments Fixed Maturities, Available for Sale. Fixed maturity securities include bonds, mortgage backed securities, redeemable preferred stock and certain non redeemable preferred stock. We classify our fixed maturity securities as either available for sale or trading and, accordingly, carry them at fair value in the consolidated statements of financial position. The fair values of our public fixed maturity securities are primarily based on market prices from independent pricing services. In addition, 21% of our invested asset portfolio is invested in fixed maturity securities that are private market assets, where there are no readily available market quotes to determine the fair market value. The majority of these assets are valued using a spread pricing matrix that utilizes observable market inputs. Securities are grouped into pricing categories that vary by asset class, sector, rating and average life. Each pricing category is assigned a risk spread based on studies of observable public market data or market clearing data from the investment professionals assigned to specific security classes. The expected cash flows of the security are then discounted back at the current Treasury curve plus the appropriate risk spread. Certain market events that could impact the valuation of securities include issuer credit ratings, business climate, management changes, litigation and government actions among others. See item 8. "Financial Statements, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 15, Fair Value of Financial Instruments" for further discussion. Structured investment transactions where we rely on broker quotes have been particularly impacted given the thinly traded markets (approximately 1% of the fixed maturity securities portfolio). In limited circumstances, we have used our internal models with relevant market inputs in lieu of external values, as we have determined the external quoted prices are not representative of market transactions. Less than 1% of our fixed maturity securities were valued using internal models. The internal models utilized are specific to the type of security. Each of the models use projected cash flows discounted using a rate derived from market curves and relevant risk spreads. A rate increase based on the combined movement of interest rates and credit spreads of 100 basis points would produce a total value of approximately $38.0 billion, as compared to the recorded amount of $39.8 billion related to our fixed maturity, available for sale assets held by the Principal Life general account as of December 31, 2009. Given the recent unprecedented market disruption, a 100 basis point movement in the combined portfolio rate is reasonably likely. Of the $6,269.9 million decrease in net unrealized losses within the U.S. fixed maturity securities portfolio for the year ended December 31, 2009, an approximate $1.9 billion net unrealized loss can be attributed to an approximate 110 basis points increase in interest rates and is more than offset by net unrealized gains related to other market factors. Of the $7,781.8 million increase in net unrealized losses for the year ended December 31, 2008, an approximate $3.1 billion net unrealized gain can be attributed to an approximate 210 basis points decrease in interest rates and is more than offset by net unrealized losses related to other market factors. Fixed maturities classified as available for sale are subject to impairment reviews. When evaluating fixed maturities for impairment, we consider relevant facts and circumstances in evaluating whether a credit or interest related 35 Table of Contents impairment is other than temporary. Relevant facts and circumstances considered include: (1) the extent and length of time the fair value has been below cost; (2) the reasons for the decline in value; (3) the financial position and access to capital of the issuer, including the current and future impact of any specific events and (4) our intent to sell a security or whether it is more likely than not we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost which, in some cases, may extend to maturity. Prior to 2009, our ability and intent to hold fixed maturities for a period of time that allowed for the recovery in value was considered rather than our intent to sell those securities. When it is determined that the decline in value is other than temporary the carrying value of the security is reduced to its fair value, and a corresponding impairment loss is reported primarily in net income, with noncredit impairment losses for certain fixed maturity securities we do not intend to sell reported in OCI. There are a number of significant risks and uncertainties inherent in the process of monitoring impairments and determining if an impairment is other than temporary. These risks and uncertainties include: (1) the risk that our assessment of an issuers ability to meet all of its contractual obligations will change based on changes in the credit characteristics of that issuer; (2) the risk that the economic outlook will be worse than expected or have more of an impact on the issuer than anticipated; (3) the risk that our investment professionals are making decisions based on fraudulent or misstated information in the financial statements provided by issuers and (4) the risk that new information obtained by us or changes in other facts and circumstances lead us to change our intent to hold the security until it recovers in value. Any of these situations could result in a charge to net income in a future period. At December 31, 2009, we had $15,921.4 million in available for sale fixed maturity securities with gross unrealized losses totaling $3,014.6 million. Included in the gross unrealized losses are losses attributable to both movements in market interest rates as well as movement in credit spreads. Net income would be reduced by approximately $3,014.6 million, on a pre tax basis, if all the securities in an unrealized loss position were deemed to be other than temporarily impaired and our intent was to sell all such securities. Mortgage Loans. Mortgage loans consist primarily of commercial mortgage loans on real estate. At December 31, 2009, commercial mortgage loans aggregated to $10,121.8 million. Commercial mortgage loans are generally reported at cost adjusted for amortization of premiums and accrual of discounts, computed using the interest method and net of valuation allowances. Commercial mortgage loans held for sale are carried at the lower of cost or fair value and reported as mortgage loans in the statements of financial position. Commercial mortgage loans on real estate are considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to contractual terms of the loan agreement. When we determine that a loan is impaired, a loss is recognized for the difference between the carrying amount of the mortgage loan and the estimated value. Estimated value is based on either the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at the loans effective interest rate, the loans observable market price or the fair value of the collateral. The determination of the calculation and the adequacy of the mortgage loan valuation allowance and mortgage impairments are subjective. Our periodic evaluation and assessment of the adequacy of the mortgage loan valuation allowance and the need for mortgage impairments is based on known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrowers ability to repay, the estimated value of the underlying collateral, composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions, loss experience and other relevant factors. The calculation for determining mortgage impairment amounts includes subjectivity, as it requires estimating the amounts and timing of future cash flows expected to be received on specific loans, estimating the value of the collateral and gauging changes in the economic environment in general. The total valuation allowance can be expected to increase when economic conditions worsen and decrease when economic conditions improve. For more detailed information concerning mortgage loan valuation allowances and impairments, see Item 7. "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Investments U.S. Investment Operations Mortgage Loans," and Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Footnote 5, Investments Commercial Mortgage Loan Valuation Allowance." We utilize an internally developed model to provide estimates and timing of loan losses. To assess the sensitivity of the loans to foreclosure and loss severities, the loans were stressed using a moderately severe downside scenario and a severe downside scenario. The moderately severe downside scenario stressed the portfolio to an economic state that included delinquencies increasing to the 3% 5% range, higher than average commercial property vacancies in excess of equilibrium levels and flat to minimal space absorption. The severe downside scenario assumed a two year decline to the worst historical economic state and persistence of that state for the remaining life of each loan. Characteristics of the worst economic state include significantly above average commercial mortgage delinquencies in excess of 5%, very high commercial real estate property vacancies significantly above equilibrium levels and zero to negative space absorption. The maximum negative effect on one year pre tax net income from use of these models was $70 80 million in the moderately severe downside scenario and $100 125 million under the severe downside scenario. We have a large experienced commercial real estate staff centrally located in Des Moines, which includes commercial mortgage underwriters, loan closers, loan servicers, engineers, appraisers, credit analysts, research staff, legal staff, information technology personnel and portfolio managers. Experienced commercial real estate senior management adheres to a disciplined process in reviewing all transactions for approval on a consistent basis. The typical commercial mortgage loan for us averages in the lower 50% percent loan to value range at origination with a net operating income coverage ratio of 2.0 times the annual debt service and is internally rated A+ on a bond equivalent basis. Based on the most recent analysis, our commercial mortgage portfolio, excluding mortgage loans held in our Global Asset 36 Table of Contents Management segment, has an overall loan to value ratio of 69% with a 1.8 times debt service coverage. The large equity cushion and strong debt service coverage in our commercial mortgage investments will help insulate us from stress during times of weak commercial real estate fundamentals. Derivatives We primarily use derivatives to hedge or reduce exposure to market risks. The fair values of exchange traded derivatives are determined through quoted market prices. The fair values of over the counter derivative instruments are determined using either pricing valuation models that utilize market observable inputs or broker quotes. Over the counter derivative assets and liabilities valued using pricing valuation models represents 93.5%, on an absolute fair value basis, while the remaining 6.5% are valued using broker quotes. See Item 8. "Financial Statements, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 15, "Fair Value of Financial Instruments" for further discussion. The fair values of our derivative instruments can be impacted by changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit spreads, equity indices, and volatility, as well as other contributing factors. We also issue certain annuity contracts and other insurance contracts that include embedded derivatives that have been bifurcated from the host contract. They are valued using a combination of historical data and actuarial judgment. See Item 8. "Financial Statements, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 15, Fair Value of Financial Instruments" for further discussion. We include our assumption for own non performance risk in the valuation of these embedded derivatives. As our non performance risk increases, the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities decreases. As our credit spreads widen or tighten, the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities decrease or increase, leading to an increase or decrease in net income. If the current market credit spreads reflecting our own creditworthiness move to zero (tighten), the reduction to net income would be approximately $5.0 million, net of DPAC and income taxes, based on December 31, 2009, reported amounts. The use of risk margins for the valuation of embedded derivatives increases the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities. The accounting for derivatives is complex and interpretations of the applicable accounting standards continue to evolve. Judgment is applied in determining the availability and application of hedge accounting designations and the appropriate accounting treatment. Judgment and estimates are used to determine the fair value of some of our derivatives. Volatility in net income can result from changes in fair value of derivatives that do not qualify or are not designated for hedge accounting and changes in fair value of embedded derivatives. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Other Actuarial Balances Commissions and other costs (underwriting, issuance and agency expenses) that vary with and are primarily related to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance policies and investment contract business are capitalized to the extent recoverable. Maintenance costs and acquisition costs that are not deferrable are charged to net income as incurred. Amortization Based on Estimated Gross Profits. DPAC for universal life type insurance contracts, participating life insurance policies and certain investment contracts are amortized over the expected lifetime of the policies in relation to estimated gross profits. In addition to DPAC, the following actuarial balances are also amortized in relation to estimated gross profits or contract assessments. Sales inducement asset Sales inducements are amounts that are credited to the contractholders account balance as an inducement to purchase the contract. Like DPAC, the cost of the sales inducement is capitalized and amortized over the expected life of the contract, in proportion to estimated gross profits. Unearned revenue liability An unearned revenue liability is established when we collect fees or other policyholder assessments that represent compensation for services to be provided in future periods. These revenues are deferred and then amortized over the expected life of the contract, in proportion to estimated gross profits. Reinsurance asset or liability For universal life type products that are reinsured, a reinsurance asset or liability is established to spread the net reinsurance costs or profits in proportion to the estimated gross profits on the underlying business. Present value of future profits ("PVFP") This is an intangible asset that arises in connection with the acquisition of a life insurance company or a block of insurance business. PVFP is amortized over the expected life of the contracts acquired, in proportion to estimated gross profits. Additional benefit reserves These are additional liabilities that are established for annuity or universal life type contracts that provide benefit guarantees, or for contracts that are expected to produce profits followed by losses. The liabilities are accrued in relation to estimated contract assessments. At issue and each valuation date, we develop an estimate of the expected future gross profits. These estimated gross profits contain assumptions relating to mortality, morbidity, lapses, investment yield and expenses. As actual experience emerges, the gross profits may vary from those expected either in magnitude or timing, in which case a true up to actual occurs as a charge or credit to current net income. In addition, we are required to revise our assumptions regarding future experience if actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier estimates should be revised. Both actions, 37 Table of Contents reflecting actual experience and changing future estimates, can change both the current amount and the future amortization pattern of the DPAC asset and related actuarial balances. For individual variable life insurance, individual variable annuities and group annuities which have separate account U.S. equity investment options, we utilize a mean reversion methodology (reversion to the mean assumption), a common industry practice, to determine the future domestic equity market growth rate assumption used for the calculation of estimated gross profits. If actual annualized U.S. equity market performance varies from our 8% long term assumption, we assume different performance levels over the next 30 quarters such that the mean return is equal to the long term assumption over the mean reversion period. However, our mean reversion process generally limits assumed returns to a range of 4 12% during the mean reversion period. The 12% cap was reached during the third quarter of 2008, and the mean reversion rate has remained at the 12% cap since then. Therefore, until the mean reversion rate falls below the 12% cap, we will not adjust the equity return assumption by the amount needed to result in a mean return equal to the long term assumption. Amortization Based on Premium Paying Period. DPAC of non participating term life insurance and individual disability policies are amortized over the premium paying period of the related policies using assumptions consistent with those used in computing policyholder liabilities. Once these assumptions are made for a given policy or group of policies, they will not be changed over the life of the policy unless a loss recognition event occurs. As of December 31, 2009, these policies accounted for less than 10% of our total DPAC balance. Internal Replacements. We review polices for modifications that result in the exchange of an existing contract for a new contract. If the new contract is determined to be an internal replacement that is substantially changed from the replaced contract, any unamortized DPAC and related actuarial balances are written off and acquisition costs related to the new contract are capitalized as appropriate. If the new contract is substantially unchanged, we continue to amortize the existing DPAC and related actuarial balances. Recoverability. DPAC and sales inducement assets are subject to recoverability testing at the time of policy issue and loss recognition testing on an annual basis, or when an event occurs that may warrant loss recognition. Likewise, PVFP is subject to impairment testing on an annual basis, or when an event occurs that may warrant impairment. If loss recognition or impairment is necessary, the asset balances are written off to the extent that it is determined that future policy premiums and investment income or gross profits are not adequate to cover related losses and expenses. Sensitivities. As of December 31, 2009, the net balance of DPAC and related actuarial balances, excluding balances affected by changes in other comprehensive income, was a $3,493.7 million asset. We perform sensitivity analyses to assess the impact that certain assumptions have on our DPAC and related actuarial balances. The following table shows the estimated immediate impact of various assumption changes on our DPAC and related actuarial balances. Estimated impact to net income (1) (in millions) Reducing the future equity return assumption by 1% $ (8.2 ) Reducing the future general account net investment return assumption by 0.5% (2) $ (68.6 ) Removing the mean reversion methodology from the estimated gross profit calculation $ (15.6 ) A one time, 10% drop in equity market values $ (10.7 ) Increasing all future lapse rate assumptions by 10% of the baseline assumption (3) $ (26.3 ) (1)Reflects the net impact of changes to the DPAC asset, sales inducement asset, unearned revenue liability, reinsurance asset or liability, PVFP and additional benefit reserves. (2)Net investment return represents net investment income plus net realized capital gains (losses). (3)This calculation reflects an increase in lapse rates only for products where increasing the lapse rate leads to a net write down of the DPAC asset and related actuarial balances. Lapse rates were left unchanged for those products where an increase in lapse rates would lead to a net write up of the DPAC asset and related actuarial balances. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and other intangibles include the cost of acquired subsidiaries in excess of the fair value of the net tangible assets recorded in connection with acquisitions. Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized. Rather, they are tested for impairment on an annual basis during the fourth quarter each year or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset might be impaired. The process of evaluating goodwill and other intangibles with indefinite lives for impairment requires several judgments and assumptions to be made to determine the fair value, including the method used to determine fair value, discount rates, expected levels of cash flows, revenues and earnings, and the selection of comparable companies used to develop market based assumptions. See Item 8. "Financial Statements, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1, Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies" for further discussion. Intangible assets that do not have indefinite lives are amortized as related benefits emerge and are reviewed periodically for indicators of impairment in value. If facts and circumstances suggest possible impairment, the sum of the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset is compared to the current carrying 38 Table of Contents value of the asset. If the undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying value, an impairment loss is recognized for the excess of the carrying amount of assets over their fair value. For those products amortized as related benefits emerge, the most significant assumptions involved in the estimation of future benefits include surrender/lapse rates, interest margins and mortality. Despite the challenging economic environment, we did not recognize a material impairment in our 2009 consolidated statement of operations. Investment management contracts acquired in our 2006 purchase of WM Advisors, Inc. are considered an indefinite life intangible and are the most material intangible asset included in our 2009 consolidated statement of financial position with a carrying value of $608.0 million. Positive net cash flows and expected future flows combined with significantly lower than expected expenses more than offset lower than expected market returns on the underlying assets acquired. As a result, the fair value of this intangible asset as of December 31, 2009, was in excess of its carrying value. Although we did not recognize a material impairment in our 2009 consolidated statement of operations, we cannot predict certain future events that might adversely affect the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets that totaled $386.4 million and $851.7 million as of December 31, 2009, respectively. Such events include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on our customer base, interest rate movements, further declines in the equity markets, the legal environment in which the businesses operate or a material negative change in our relationships with significant customers. Additional information about impairments is described in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 3, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." Insurance Reserves Reserves are liabilities representing estimates of the amounts that will come due, at some point in the future, to or on behalf of our policyholders. U.S. GAAP, allowing for some degree of managerial judgment, prescribes the methods of establishing reserves. Future policy benefits and claims include reserves for individual traditional and group life insurance, accident and health insurance and individual and group annuities that provide periodic income payments, which are computed using assumptions of mortality, morbidity, lapse, investment performance and expense. These assumptions are based on our experience and are periodically reviewed against industry standards to ensure actuarial credibility. For long duration insurance contracts, once these assumptions are made for a given policy or group of policies, they will not be changed over the life of the policy. However, significant changes in experience or assumptions may require us to provide for expected future losses on a product by establishing premium deficiency reserves. Premium deficiency reserves may also be established for short duration contracts to provide for expected future losses. Our reserve levels are reviewed throughout the year using internal analysis including, among other things, experience studies, claim development analysis and annual statutory asset adequacy analysis. To the extent experience indicates potential loss recognition, we recognize losses on certain lines of business. The ultimate accuracy of the assumptions on these long tailed insurance products cannot be determined until the obligation of the entire block of business on which the assumptions were made is extinguished. Short term variances of actual results from the assumptions used in the computation of the reserves are reflected in current period net income and can impact quarter to quarter net income. Future policy benefits and claims also include reserves for incurred but unreported health, disability and life insurance claims. We recognize claims costs in the period the service was provided to our policyowners. However, claims costs incurred in a particular period are not known with certainty until after we receive, process and pay the claims. We determine the amount of this liability using actuarial methods based on historical claim payment patterns as well as emerging medical cost trends, where applicable, to determine our estimate of claim liabilities. We also look back to assess how our prior periods estimates developed. To the extent appropriate, changes in such development are recorded as a change to current period claim expense. Historically, the amount of the claim reserve adjustment made in subsequent reporting periods for prior period estimates was within a reasonable range given our normal claim fluctuations. Benefit Plans The reported expense and liability associated with pension and other postretirement benefit plans requires the use of assumptions. Numerous assumptions are made regarding the discount rate, expected long term rate of return on plan assets, turnover, expected compensation increases, health care claim costs, health care cost trends, retirement rates and mortality. The discount rate and the expected return on plan assets have the most significant impact on the level of cost. The assumed discount rate is determined by projecting future benefit payments inherent in the Projected Benefit Obligation and discounting those cash flows using a spot yield curve. For 2009 year end, this yield curve was the Mercer Yield Curve, while for 2008 we utilized the Citigroup Pension Discount Curve. We changed curves based on research which indicated that the Mercer curve better reflects the market and discount rate requirements under U.S. GAAP accounting guidelines. For 2009 year end, we set the discount rate at 6.00%, the same rate used for 2008 year end. A 0.25% decrease in the discount rate would increase pension benefits Projected Benefit Obligation and the 2010 Net Periodic Pension Cost ("NPPC") by approximately $66.9 million and $9.5 million, respectively. A 0.25% decrease in the discount rate would increase other postretirement benefits Accumulated Postretirement Benefit Obligation and the 2010 Net Periodic Benefit Cost ("NPBC") by approximately $12.0 million and $1.3 million, respectively. A 0.25% increase in 39 Table of Contents the discount rate would result in decreases in benefit obligations and expenses at a level generally commensurate with those noted above. The assumed long term rate of return on plan assets is set at the long term rate expected to be earned based on the long term investment policy of the plans and the various classes of the invested funds. Historical and future expected returns of multiple asset classes were analyzed to develop a risk free real rate of return and risk premiums for each asset class. The overall long term rate for each asset class was developed by combining a long term inflation component, the risk free real rate of return and the associated risk premium. A weighted average rate was developed based on long term returns for each asset class, the plans target asset allocation policy and the tax structure of the trusts. For the 2009 NPPC and 2009 NPBC, an 8.00% and 7.30% weighted average long term rate of return was used, respectively. For the 2010 NPPC and 2010 NPBC, an 8.00% and 7.30% weighted average long term rate of return assumption will be used, respectively. A 0.25% decrease in the assumed long term rate of return would increase 2010 NPPC by approximately $3.1 million and the 2010 NPBC by approximately $1.0 million. A 0.25% increase in this rate would result in a decrease to expense at the same levels. The assumed return on plan assets is based on the fair market value of plan assets as of December 31, 2009. The compensation increase assumption is generally set at a rate consistent with current and expected long term compensation and salary policy, including inflation. Actuarial gains and losses are amortized using a straight line amortization method over the average remaining service period of employees, which is approximately 8 years for pension costs and approximately 13 years for other postretirement benefit costs. Prior service costs are amortized on a weighted average basis over approximately 5 years for both pension and other postretirement benefit costs. See Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 12, Employee and Agent Benefits." Income Taxes We provide for income taxes based on our estimate of the liability for taxes due. Our tax accounting represents managements best estimate of various events and transactions, such as completion of tax audits or establishment of, or changes to, a valuation allowance associated with certain deferred tax assets, which could affect our estimates and effective tax rate in a particular quarter or annual period. Inherent in the provision for income taxes are estimates regarding the deductibility of certain items, the timing of income and expense recognition and the current or future realization of capital losses and certain tax credits. The current economic environment has resulted in a significant increase in realized and unrealized losses on our fixed maturity securities. The corresponding deferred tax asset by taxing jurisdiction will more likely than not be fully realized considering our buy and hold investment philosophy for securities experiencing unrealized losses and available tax planning strategies that management is willing to implement for securities experiencing realized losses, if necessary. Our tax planning strategy is to sell various appreciated securities and other capital assets that if sold would result in sufficient capital gains to realize the deferred tax assets, thus minimizing the need for a valuation allowance. In the event our estimates of the ultimate deductibility of certain items, the timing of the recognition of income and expense or the current or future realization of capital losses and certain tax credits differ from prior estimates due to the receipt of new information, we may be required to significantly change the provision for income taxes recorded in the consolidated financial statements. Any such change could significantly affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements in the year these estimates change. A further significant decline in value of assets incorporated into our tax planning strategies could lead to an increase of our valuation allowance on deferred tax assets having an adverse effect on current and future results. In addition, the amount of income taxes paid is subject to audits in various jurisdictions. Tax benefits are recognized for book purposes when the more likely than not threshold is met with regard to the validity of an uncertain tax position. Once this threshold is met, for each uncertain tax position, we recognize in earnings the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement with the IRS or other income taxing authorities for audits ongoing or not yet commenced. We had $243.6 million and $226.2 million of current income tax receivables associated with outstanding audit issues reported as other assets in our consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We believe that we have adequate defenses against, or sufficient provisions for, the contested issues, but final resolution of contested issues could take several years while legal remedies are pursued. Consequently, we do not anticipate the ultimate resolution of audits ongoing or not yet commenced to have a material impact on our net income. 40  Table of Contents Transactions Affecting Comparability of Results of Operations Acquisitions We acquired the following businesses, among others, during the past three years: Morley Financial Services, Inc. On August 31, 2007, we acquired Morley Financial Services, Inc. ("Morley Financial Services") from Nationwide Mutual Insurance Company, for $75.0 million in cash. Morley Financial Services is a stable value asset manager with approximately $14.0 billion in institutional AUM at the time of purchase. The operations of Morley Financial Services are reported and consolidated in our Global Asset Management segment. Dispositions We entered into disposition agreements or disposed of the following businesses, among others, during the past three years: Post Advisory Group, LLC. Effective January 1, 2009, we sold certain fixed income asset management contracts within our Post Advisory Group, LLC subsidiary, at which time we realized benefits from the cancellation of deferred compensation agreements. The assets under management associated with this sale totaled $3.8 billion. The total cash proceeds of $50.0 million are expected to be received over a four year time period. The initial $2.2 million cash down payment was received in the second quarter of 2009. The transaction does not qualify for discontinued operations treatment under U.S. GAAP. The realized capital gain from the sale, which is reflected in our Global Asset Management segment, is not material. Discontinued Operations. For divestitures that qualify for discontinued operations treatment, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 2, Discontinued Operations." Other Senior Note Issuance. On May 18, 2009, we issued $750.0 million of senior notes. We issued a $400.0 million series of notes that bear interest at 7.875% and will mature on May 15, 2014, and a $350.0 million series of notes that bear interest at 8.875% and will mature on May 15, 2019. Interest on the notes is payable semi annually on May 15 and November 15 each year, beginning on November 15, 2009. The proceeds were primarily used to refinance $440.9 million of notes that matured on August 15, 2009, with the remaining proceeds being used for general corporate purposes. Common Stock Issuance. On May 11, 2009, we issued 58.2 million shares of common stock at a price of $19.75 per share. Net proceeds from the issuance were $1,109.1 million. The proceeds from this offering will be used for general corporate purposes. Commercial Mortgage Securities Issuance Operation. During the third quarter of 2008, we made a decision to terminate our commercial mortgage securities issuance operation. This termination does not qualify for discontinued operations treatment under U.S. GAAP. Therefore, the results of the terminated commercial mortgage securities issuance operation are still included in our consolidated income from continuing operations. As a result of our decision to terminate our commercial mortgage securities issuance operation, amounts previously included in our Global Asset Management segment operating earnings related to our commercial mortgage securities issuance operation have been removed from operating earnings for all periods presented and are reported as other after tax adjustments. Our commercial mortgage securities issuance operation had operating revenues of $(0.5) million, $(32.2) million and $30.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively, and after tax operating earnings (losses) of $(0.7) million, $(28.1) million and $5.7 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. SBB Mutual Berhad and SBB Asset Management Sdn Bhd. On February 5, 2007, we invested an additional RM$192.4 million Malaysian ringgits ("RM$") (approximately U.S. $55.1 million) to retain our 40% ownership interest in CIMB Principal, our joint venture company in Malaysia, as a result of its decision to purchase the mutual fund and asset management companies of the former Southern Bank Bhd ("SBB") Mutual Berhad and SBB Asset Management Sdn Bhd. Reinsurance Subsidiaries. In December 2008, Principal Life established a wholly owned insurance subsidiary, Principal Life Insurance Company of Iowa II, which was redomesticated to Delaware in 2009 and renamed to Principal Reinsurance Company of Delaware. This subsidiary reinsures a portion of our universal life "secondary" or "no lapse" guarantee provisions as well as our current term product, through an intercompany reinsurance agreement with Principal Life. The reinsurance agreement, which is guaranteed by PFG, allows us to redeploy capital for other general corporate purposes. 41 Table of Contents Fluctuations in Foreign Currency to U.S. Dollar Exchange Rates Fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates for countries in which we have operations can affect reported financial results. In years when foreign currencies weaken against the U.S. dollar, translating foreign currencies into U.S. dollars results in fewer U.S. dollars to be reported. When foreign currencies strengthen, translating foreign currencies into U.S. dollars results in more U.S. dollars to be reported. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations create variances in our financial statement line items but have not had a material impact on our consolidated income from continuing operations. Our consolidated income from continuing operations was negatively impacted $19.6 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, and positively impacted $6.1 million and $5.9 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, as a result of fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates for our foreign operations. For a discussion of our approaches to foreign currency exchange rate risk, see Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Foreign Currency Risk." Effects of Inflation We do not believe that the impact of inflation has had a material effect on our annual consolidated results of operations over the past three years. However, we may be materially affected by inflation in the future. For further discussion on inflation, see Item 1A. "Risk Factors Difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially adversely affect our business and results of operations and we do not expect these conditions to improve in the future." Stock Based Compensation Plans For information related to our Stock Based Compensation Plans, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 18, Stock Based Compensation Plans." Defined Benefit Pension Expense The 2009 annual defined benefit pension expense for substantially all of our employees and certain agents was $157.6 million pre tax, which was a $145.3 million increase from the 2008 pre tax pension expense of $12.3 million. This increase was primarily due to much lower than expected returns on plan assets and a decrease in our discount rate. The expected long term return on plan assets assumption was lowered from 8.25% to 8.00% based on a review of this assumption during 2008. The discount rate used to develop the 2009 expense was lowered to 6.0%, down from the 6.3% discount rate used to develop the 2008 expense. The 2010 annual defined benefit pension expense for substantially all of our employees and certain agents is expected to be $110.4 million pre tax, which is a $47.2 million decrease from the 2009 pre tax pension expense of $157.6 million. This decrease is primarily due to actual asset returns in 2009 that were higher than expected asset returns. The expected long term return on plan assets assumption remained at 8.0%. The discount rate used to develop the 2010 expense remained at the same 6.0% rate used to develop the 2009 expense. Recent Accounting Changes For recent accounting changes, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1, Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies." 42 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table presents summary consolidated financial information for the years indicated: Increase (decrease) For the year ended December 31, 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Revenues: Premiums and other considerations $ 3,750.6 $ 4,209.2 $ 4,634.1 $ (458.6 ) $ (424.9 ) Fees and other revenues 2,096.0 2,426.5 2,634.7 (330.5 ) (208.2 ) Net investment income 3,400.8 3,994.3 3,966.5 (593.5 ) 27.8 Net realized capital gains (losses), excluding impairment losses on available for sale securities 54.9 (214.8 ) (14.7 ) 269.7 (200.1 ) Total other than temporary impairment losses on available for sale securities (714.1 ) (479.3 ) (314.1 ) (234.8 ) (165.2 ) Portion of impairment losses on fixed maturities, available for sale recognized in other comprehensive income 260.9 260.9 Net impairment losses on available for sale securities (453.2 ) (479.3 ) (314.1 ) 26.1 (165.2 ) Net realized capital losses (398.3 ) (694.1 ) (328.8 ) 295.8 (365.3 ) Total revenues 8,849.1 9,935.9 10,906.5 (1,086.8 ) (970.6 ) Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses 5,334.5 6,219.9 6,435.3 (885.4 ) (215.4 ) Dividends to policyholders 242.2 267.3 293.8 (25.1 ) (26.5 ) Operating expenses 2,526.6 2,987.4 3,105.0 (460.8 ) (117.6 ) Total expenses 8,103.3 9,474.6 9,834.1 (1,371.3 ) (359.5 ) Income from continuing operations before income taxes 745.8 461.3 1,072.4 284.5 (611.1 ) Income taxes (benefits) 100.1 (4.5 ) 208.1 104.6 (212.6 ) Income from continuing operations, net of related income taxes 645.7 465.8 864.3 179.9 (398.5 ) Income from discontinued operations, net of related income taxes 20.2 (20.2 ) Net income 645.7 465.8 884.5 179.9 (418.7 ) Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest 23.0 7.7 24.2 15.3 (16.5 ) Net income attributable to Principal Financial Group, Inc. 622.7 458.1 860.3 164.6 (402.2 ) Preferred stock dividends 33.0 33.0 33.0 Net income available to common stockholders $ 589.7 $ 425.1 $ 827.3 $ 164.6 $ (402.2 ) Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 Net Income Available to Common Stockholders Due to the challenging economic environment, our revenues have decreased while our employee defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit costs have increased relative to 2008. In order to minimize the impact to net income available to common stockholders, we have undertaken extensive company wide expense savings initiatives to better align our expenses with the declining revenue base. Net income available to common stockholders increased primarily due to a $211.5 million after tax decrease in net realized capital losses. The change in net realized capital losses was primarily driven by mark to market gains versus losses on fixed maturity and equity securities classified as trading and higher gains on sales of fixed maturity securities. Partially offsetting this increase were lower earnings in our Global Asset Management segment primarily due to the severe downturn in the global financial markets in 2008, which has led to a significant reduction in AUM and revenues. Total Revenues U.S. Asset Accumulation segment premiums decreased $276.0 million primarily due to a decrease in sales of annuities with life contingencies within our individual annuities and full service payout businesses. In addition, premiums decreased $218.9 million for the Life and Health Insurance segment primarily due to a reduction in average covered medical members in our health insurance business and a decline in traditional life insurance premiums. Fees decreased $208.8 million for our U.S. Asset Accumulation segment resulting from an equity market driven decrease in average account values in 2009 compared to 2008. Fees also decreased $153.6 million for our Global Asset Management segment due to a decrease in AUM as a result of declining market conditions as well as the 2009 sale of certain asset management contracts within Post Advisory Group, LLC. Net investment income decreased primarily due to lower inflation based investment returns related to deflation in Chile during 2009, lower yields on floating rate investments supporting floating rate liabilities, and a decrease in average invested assets. For additional information, see "Investments Investment Results." 43 Table of Contents Net realized capital gains (losses) can be volatile due to mark to market adjustments of certain invested assets, other than temporary impairments of invested assets and our decision to sell invested assets. Net realized capital losses decreased primarily due to mark to market gains versus losses on fixed maturity and equity securities classified as trading and higher gains on sales of fixed maturity securities. For additional information, see "Investments Investment Results." Total Expenses Benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $538.1 million for the U.S. Asset Accumulation segment, primarily due to a decrease in our investment only business resulting from our decision to scale back this business and lower variable crediting rates. Also contributing to the decline within the segment was a decrease in the change in reserves resulting from lower sales of annuities with life contingencies in our full service payout and individual annuities businesses. In addition, benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $257.4 million for the International Asset Management and Accumulation segment, primarily due to lower interest crediting rates to customers in Chile, which were impacted by deflation, and the weakening of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar. Despite a $177.0 million increase in employee defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit costs, operating expenses (excluding the impacts of DPAC and commissions) for our organization have decreased as a result of company wide expense savings initiatives. U.S. Asset Accumulation operating expenses decreased $358.5 million, primarily due to a decrease in DPAC amortization related to favorable true up impacts from equity markets in 2009 compared to unfavorable true up impacts from equity markets in 2008. In addition, lower commission expense and fees paid to advisors stemming from a decrease in average account values in our Principal Funds business contributed to a decline in segment operating expenses. Furthermore, operating expenses decreased $146.6 million for the Life and Health Insurance segment, primarily due to lower DPAC amortization and lower non deferred sales related expenses in our individual life insurance business. Income Taxes The effective income tax rates were 13% and 1% for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2009, was lower than the U.S. corporate income tax rate of 35% ("U.S. statutory rate") primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received, taxes on our share of earnings generated from equity method investments reflected in net investment income and interest exclusion from taxable income. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2008, was lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received, interest exclusion from taxable income and additional U.S. foreign tax credits resulting from the second quarter 2008 enactment of legislation to increase the Brazilian tax rate. The effective income tax rate increased to 13% from 1% for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, primarily due to a decrease in our net realized capital losses with no proportionate change in permanent items and additional U.S. foreign tax credits reflected in 2008 resulting from the Brazilian tax rate increase. The net increase in deferred tax liabilities associated with the 2008 enacted Brazilian income tax rate is reflected in net investment income because the equity method of accounting is applied to our Brazilian operations; however, the benefit from additional U.S. foreign tax credits is reflected in income tax expense. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 Net Income Available to Common Stockholders Net income available to common stockholders decreased primarily due to a $248.4 million after tax increase in net realized capital losses. The change in net realized capital losses was primarily driven by higher impairments, net of recoveries from sales, on fixed maturity securities and mark to market losses versus gains on fixed maturity and equity securities classified as trading. In addition, earnings for the U.S. Asset Accumulation segment decreased primarily due to a decline in account values in our full service accumulation business stemming from poor equity markets in 2008 and shifts in the mix of business. Total Revenues Premiums decreased $195.5 million for the Life and Health Insurance segment primarily due to a reduction in average covered medical members in our health insurance business. In addition, U.S. Asset Accumulation segment premiums decreased $187.6 million primarily due to a decrease in sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies within our full service payout business, which was partially offset by an increase in our individual payout annuities business primarily relating to increased sales of annuities with life contingencies. Fees decreased $244.9 million for our U.S. Asset Accumulation segment due to a decline in average account values stemming from poor equity markets in 2008 and shifts in the mix of business. Net investment income increased primarily due to a higher average invested asset balance and higher inflation based investment returns on fixed maturities in Chile during 2008. This increase was partially offset by lower yields on floating rate investments supporting floating rate policyholder liabilities as well as an increased allocation to lower yielding cash and cash equivalent holdings in 2008. For additional information, see "Investments Investment Results." 44 Table of Contents Net realized capital gains (losses) can be volatile due to mark to market adjustments of certain invested assets, other than temporary impairments of invested assets, and our decision to sell appreciated invested assets. Net realized capital losses increased primarily due to higher impairments, net of recoveries from sales, on fixed maturity securities and mark to market losses versus gains on fixed maturity and equity securities classified as trading. For additional information, see "Investments Investment Results." Total Expenses Benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $189.6 million for the Life and Health Insurance segment, primarily due to a decrease in average covered medical members in our health insurance business. Operating expenses decreased $83.2 million for the Corporate segment, primarily due to a decline in amounts credited to employee accounts in a nonqualified defined contribution pension plan, which was offset by a corresponding reduction in net realized capital gains related to the assets backing this nonqualified plan. In addition, U.S. Asset Accumulation operating expenses decreased $69.8 million, primarily due to a comprehensive assumption study in our full service accumulation business that was completed during the third quarter of 2007, which resulted in the unlocking of our unearned revenue and DPAC assumptions and led to the recognition of previously deferred expenses in 2007. Income Taxes The effective income tax rates were 1% and 19% for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2008, was lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received, interest exclusion from taxable income and additional U.S. foreign tax credits resulting from the second quarter 2008 enactment of legislation to increase the Brazilian tax rate. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2007, was lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received and interest exclusion from taxable income. The effective income tax rate decreased to 1% from 19% for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively, primarily due to an increase in our net realized capital losses with no proportionate change in permanent items, additional U.S. foreign tax credits resulting from the Brazilian tax rate increase and tax refinements made in 2007 related to prior years. The net increase in deferred tax liabilities associated with the 2008 enacted Brazilian income tax rate is reflected in net investment income because the equity method of accounting is applied to our Brazilian operations; however, the benefit from additional U.S. foreign tax credits is reflected in income tax expense. Results of Operations by Segment For results of operations by segment see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 17, Segment Information." U.S. Asset Accumulation Segment U.S. Asset Accumulation Trends Account values are a key indicator of earnings growth for the segment, as account values are the base by which the segment generates its fee and spread based profits. Net cash flow and market performance are the two main drivers of account value growth. Net cash flow reflects the segments ability to attract and retain client deposits. Market performance reflects not only the equity market performance, but also the investment performance of fixed income investments supporting our spread business. The percentage growth in earnings of the segment should generally track the percentage growth in account values. This trend may vary due to changes in business and or product mix. The following table presents the U.S. Asset Accumulation account value rollforward for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in billions) Account values, beginning of period $ 146.1 $ 180.8 $ 163.3 Net cash flow (1) (3.4 ) 5.0 6.7 Credited investment performance 22.3 (37.6 ) 10.3 Other (1.1 ) (2.1 ) 0.5 Account values, end of period $ 163.9 $ 146.1 $ 180.8 (1)Includes net cash flow of $(5.2) billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, resulting from the decision to scale back our investment only business. 45  Table of Contents U.S. Asset Accumulation Segment Summary Financial Data The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the U.S. Asset Accumulation segment for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, Increase (decrease) 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Operating revenues: Premiums and other considerations $ 247.2 $ 523.2 $ 710.8 $ (276.0 ) $ (187.6 ) Fees and other revenues 1,243.9 1,455.1 1,691.4 (211.2 ) (236.3 ) Net investment income 2,550.4 2,820.1 2,748.0 (269.7 ) 72.1 Total operating revenues 4,041.5 4,798.4 5,150.2 (756.9 ) (351.8 ) Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses, including dividends to policyholders 2,217.5 2,711.5 2,812.6 (494.0 ) (101.1 ) Operating expenses 1,169.4 1,417.2 1,510.1 (247.8 ) (92.9 ) Total expenses 3,386.9 4,128.7 4,322.7 (741.8 ) (194.0 ) Operating earnings before income taxes 654.6 669.7 827.5 (15.1 ) (157.8 ) Income taxes 144.2 138.2 171.7 6.0 (33.5 ) Operating earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest 0.2 (0.2 ) 0.2 Operating earnings $ 510.4 $ 531.3 $ 655.8 $ (20.9 ) $ (124.5 ) Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 Operating Earnings Operating earnings in our investment only and full service payout businesses decreased $38.6 million and $18.5 million, respectively, primarily due to a decrease in spread between net investment income and interest credited to policyholders. In addition, operating earnings in our full service accumulation business decreased $13.5 million primarily due to lower fee income resulting from an equity market driven decrease in average account values in 2009 compared to 2008 and an increase in employee defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit costs. The decline in our full service accumulation business was partially offset by a decrease in DPAC amortization related to favorable true up impacts from equity markets in 2009 compared to unfavorable true up impacts from equity markets in 2008. Partially offsetting the decrease in segment operating earnings was a $47.0 million increase in our individual annuities business primarily due to a decrease in DPAC amortization related to favorable true up impacts from equity markets in 2009 compared to unfavorable true up impacts from equity markets in 2008. Operating Revenues Premiums decreased $170.1 million in our individual annuities business primarily due to a decrease in sales of annuities with life contingencies resulting from increasing competition. Premiums in our full service payout business decreased $105.9 million primarily due to a decrease in sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies. The single premium group annuity product, which is typically used to fund defined benefit plan terminations, can generate large premiums from very few customers and therefore tends to vary from period to period. Fees in our full service accumulation business decreased $106.0 million primarily resulting from an equity market driven decrease in average account values in 2009 compared to 2008 and shifts in the mix of business. Fees in our Principal Funds business decreased $97.7 million primarily due to a decline in distribution income and management fee income resulting from an equity market driven decrease in average account values in 2009 compared to 2008. Net investment income decreased primarily due to lower investment returns on invested assets and cash related to our more liquid investment strategy for the segment. Total Expenses Benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $282.3 million in our investment only business primarily due to our decision to scale back this business and lower variable crediting rates. In addition, our full service payout business benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $106.1 million primarily due to a decrease in the change in reserves resulting from lower sales of annuities with life contingencies. Furthermore, benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $96.9 million in our individual annuities business primarily due to a decrease in the change in reserves resulting from lower sales of annuities with life contingencies, partially offset by an increase in interest credited and an increase in benefit expense related to a growing block of fixed annuities. Operating expenses in our full service accumulation business decreased $104.2 million primarily due to a decrease in DPAC amortization related to favorable true up impacts from equity markets in 2009 compared to unfavorable true up impacts from equity markets in 2008, which was partially offset by an increase in employee defined benefit pension and 46 Table of Contents other postretirement benefit costs. To a lesser extent, a decrease in expenses due to expense savings initiatives and lower fees paid to advisors, which resulted from a decrease in average account values, contributed to the decline in operating expenses in our full service accumulation business. In addition, operating expenses within Principal Funds decreased $87.5 million primarily due to lower commission expense and fees paid to advisors resulting from a decrease in average account values. Furthermore, operating expenses in our individual annuities business decreased $46.3 million primarily due to a decrease in DPAC amortization related to favorable true up impacts from equity markets in 2009 compared to unfavorable true up impacts from equity markets in 2008. Also, to a lesser extent, a decrease in non deferred commission expense resulting from a decline in sales of annuities with life contingencies contributed to the decrease in operating expenses within our individual annuities business. Income Taxes The effective income tax rates for the segment were 22% and 21% for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The effective income tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily as a result of income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received and the interest exclusion from taxable income. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 Operating Earnings Operating earnings in our full service accumulation business decreased $95.1 million primarily due to a decrease in account values stemming from poor equity markets in 2008 and the shifts in mix of business. Furthermore, 2007 results benefited from the third quarter 2007 completion of a comprehensive assumption study, which resulted in the unlocking of our unearned revenue and DPAC assumptions and led to the recognition of a $30.1 million after tax operating earnings benefit. To a lesser extent, operating earnings were reduced by a decline in the tax benefits associated with the dividend received deduction stemming from a declining equity environment. In addition, operating earnings in our Principal Funds business decreased $18.7 million primarily due to lower management fees stemming from a decrease in average account values due to the poor equity markets in 2008. Operating Revenues Premiums in our full service payout business decreased $253.3 million primarily due to a decrease in sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies. The single premium group annuity product, which is typically used to fund defined benefit plan terminations, can generate large premiums from very few customers and therefore tends to vary from period to period. Partially offsetting this decrease was a $65.7 million increase in premiums from our individual payout annuities business due to increased sales of annuities with life contingencies. Fees in our full service accumulation business decreased $190.7 million primarily due to the third quarter 2007 completion of a comprehensive assumption study, which resulted in the unlocking of our unearned revenue assumptions and led to the recognition of previously deferred revenue in 2007. Furthermore, fees decreased due to a decline in account values stemming from poor equity markets in 2008 and shifts in the mix of business. Fees in our Principal Funds business decreased $65.2 million primarily due to lower management and distribution fees stemming from a decrease in average account values due to poor equity markets in 2008. Net investment income decreased primarily due to lower investment returns on invested assets and cash related to our more liquid investment strategy for the segment. Total Expenses Benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $252.8 million within our full service payout business primarily due to a decrease in single premium group annuity sales. In addition, our investment only business decreased $55.0 million primarily due to a decrease in cost of interest credited on this block of business resulting from a decrease in account values and lower crediting rates. Partially offsetting the decrease was a $190.4 million increase within our individual annuities business primarily due to an increase in cost of interest credited on fixed deferred annuities related to normal growth in the block and, to a lesser extent, an increase in reserves related to higher sales of individual payout annuities with life contingencies. Operating expenses in our full service accumulation business decreased $101.0 million primarily due to the third quarter 2007 completion of a comprehensive assumption study, which resulted in the unlocking of our DPAC assumptions and led to the recognition of previously deferred expenses in 2007. Also contributing to lower operating expenses were decreases in normal DPAC amortization due to lower current period earnings and lower asset management expense stemming from a decrease in account values. Operating expenses decreased $34.8 million within Principal Funds primarily due to lower asset based expenses stemming from a decrease in average account values, which resulted from poor equity markets in 2008. Partially offsetting the overall decrease was a $48.8 million increase in our individual annuities business primarily due to increased DPAC amortization expense on variable annuities as a result of the negative equity market performance experienced throughout 2008 and, to a lesser extent, increased expenses related to the normal growth in the block of fixed annuities. 47 Table of Contents Income Taxes The effective income tax rate for the segment was 21% for both the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. The effective income tax rates were lower than the U.S. statutory rate, primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received and interest exclusion from taxable income. Global Asset Management Segment Global Asset Management Trends We have experienced success in winning institutional asset management mandates and expect to see continued growth in this area. Our overall AUM increased $15.3 billion in 2009 primarily due to improved market performance despite investors lingering concerns about market volatility. The following table provides a summary of Global Asset Managements affiliated and third party AUM as of December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007: Principal Global Investors As of Affiliated AUM Third party AUM Total AUM (in billions) December 31, 2009 $ 131.5 $ 73.8 $ 205.3 December 31, 2008 119.7 70.3 190.0 December 31, 2007 148.7 87.3 236.0 Global Asset Management Segment Summary Financial Data AUM is a key indicator of earnings growth for our Global Asset Management segment, as AUM is the base by which we generate revenues. Net cash flow and market performance are the two main drivers of AUM growth. Net cash flow reflects our ability to attract and retain client deposits. Market performance reflects equity, fixed income and real estate market performance. The percentage growth in earnings of the segment will generally track with the percentage growth in AUM. This trend may vary due to changes in business and or product mix. The following table presents the AUM rollforward for assets managed by Global Asset Management for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in billions) AUM, beginning of period $ 190.0 $ 236.0 $ 191.4 Net cash flow (1) (7.7 ) 3.3 15.8 Investment performance 28.5 (46.0 ) 12.5 Operations acquired (2) 13.7 Operations disposed (3) (3.8 ) Other (1.7 ) (3.3 ) 2.6 AUM, end of period $ 205.3 $ 190.0 $ 236.0 (1)Includes net cash flow of $(5.2) billion for the year ended December 31, 2009, resulting from the U.S. Asset Accumulation segments decision to scale back its investment only business. (2)Includes acquisition of Morley Financial Services in 2007. (3)Includes disposition of certain asset management contracts within Post Advisory Group, LLC in 2009. 48 Table of Contents The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the Global Asset Management segment for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, Increase (decrease) 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Operating revenues: Fees and other revenues $ 429.2 $ 577.3 $ 536.8 $ (148.1 ) $ 40.5 Net investment income 10.2 21.2 36.1 (11.0 ) (14.9 ) Total operating revenues 439.4 598.5 572.9 (159.1 ) 25.6 Expenses: Total expenses 375.6 442.9 402.7 (67.3 ) 40.2 Operating earnings before income taxes 63.8 155.6 170.2 (91.8 ) (14.6 ) Income taxes 21.0 50.9 55.7 (29.9 ) (4.8 ) Operating earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest 4.6 10.3 11.7 (5.7 ) (1.4 ) Operating earnings $ 38.2 $ 94.4 $ 102.8 $ (56.2 ) $ (8.4 ) Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 Operating Earnings Operating earnings decreased primarily due to a decline in performance fee revenues. In addition, the severe downturn in global financial markets in the latter half of 2008 has led to a significant reduction in our AUM and revenues relative to early 2008 levels and thus a reduction in operating earnings. Additionally, we sold certain asset management contracts to a non affiliated entity in the first quarter of 2009, resulting in lower fee revenues. These declines were offset in part by a series of expense management initiatives, which have been undertaken in response to the market downturn. Operating Revenues Fees decreased primarily due to a decrease in AUM as well as the 2009 sale of certain asset management contracts within Post Advisory Group, LLC. In addition, a performance fee was earned in the fourth quarter of 2008 related to performance delivered over the previous five years, with no corresponding fee earned in 2009. Borrower fees and real estate transaction fees decreased due to a decline in real estate activity. Net investment income decreased as a result of lower investment income earned on our loan portfolio and a decline in the interest rate environment. Total Expenses Total expenses decreased due to lower staff related costs resulting from lower head count, lower incentive compensation paid on performance fees due to a decrease in fees received in 2009 compared to 2008 and other expense management initiatives. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate for the segment was 33% for both the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. The effective income tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate, primarily due to inclusion of income attributable to noncontrolling interest in pre tax operating earnings with no corresponding change in income taxes reported by us as the controlling interest. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 Operating Earnings Operating earnings decreased as a result of lower investment income and loan volumes in 2008 compared to 2007. In addition, operating earnings decreased due to a decline in borrower fees and transaction fees as a result of lower real estate activity. Offsetting these decreases was an increase in management and performance fee revenues. Operating Revenues Fees increased due to higher management fees and performance fees despite the adverse market conditions, which have dampened our overall growth. In addition to the acquisition of Morley Financial Services, we continued to see growth in management fees from our fixed income and equity lines of business; however, borrower fees and transaction fees have decreased due to lower real estate activity in 2008 compared to 2007. Net investment income decreased as a result of lower investment income earned on our loan portfolio and a decline in the interest rate environment. 49 Table of Contents Total Expenses Total expenses increased due to growth in staff related costs, primarily as a result of incentive compensation paid on performance fees received during the fourth quarter of 2008, as well as the acquisition of Morley Financial Services in the third quarter of 2007. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate for the segment was 33% for both the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007. The effective income tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate, primarily due to inclusion of income attributable to noncontrolling interest in pre tax operating earnings with no corresponding change in income taxes reported by us as the controlling interest. International Asset Management and Accumulation Segment International Asset Management and Accumulation Trends Our international asset management and accumulation businesses focus on countries with favorable demographics and growing long term savings and defined contribution markets. With variations depending upon the specific country, we have targeted these markets for sales of retirement and related products and services, including defined contribution pension plans, annuities and mutual funds to businesses and individuals. In some of our international markets, we complement our sales of these products with institutional asset management and life insurance accumulation products. We have pursued our international strategy through a combination of start ups, acquisitions and joint ventures, which require infusions of capital consistent with our strategy of long term growth and profitability. International Asset Management and Accumulation Segment Summary Financial Data AUM is a key indicator of earnings growth for the segment, as AUM is the base by which we can generate local currency profits. Net cash flow and market performance are the two main drivers of local currency AUM growth. Net cash flow reflects our ability to attract and retain client deposits. Market performance reflects the investment returns on our underlying AUM. The percentage growth in the earnings of our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment will generally track with the percentage growth in AUM. This trend may vary due to changes in business and or product mix. Our financial results are also impacted by fluctuations of the foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates for the countries in which we have business. AUM of our foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollar equivalents at the year end spot foreign exchange rates. Revenue and expenses for our foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollar equivalents at the average foreign exchange rates for the year. The following table presents the International Asset Management and Accumulation AUM rollforward for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in billions) AUM, beginning of period $ 23.1 $ 28.7 $ 19.1 Net cash flow 3.2 1.0 2.1 Investment performance 4.0 (1.6 ) 3.0 Effect of exchange rates 4.5 (5.0 ) 2.3 Other (1) (0.2 ) 2.2 AUM, end of period $ 34.6 $ 23.1 $ 28.7 (1)Includes $2.2 billion in 2007 from our SBB acquisition in Malaysia. 50  Table of Contents The following table presents certain summary financial data of the International Asset Management and Accumulation segment for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, Increase (decrease) 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Operating revenues: Premiums and other considerations $ 239.1 $ 204.1 $ 246.4 $ 35.0 $ (42.3 ) Fees and other revenues 116.0 123.1 136.4 (7.1 ) (13.3 ) Net investment income 207.0 521.8 413.5 (314.8 ) 108.3 Total operating revenues 562.1 849.0 796.3 (286.9 ) 52.7 Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses 327.6 586.6 526.7 (259.0 ) 59.9 Operating expenses 115.2 152.5 140.4 (37.3 ) 12.1 Total expenses 442.8 739.1 667.1 (296.3 ) 72.0 Operating earnings before income taxes 119.3 109.9 129.2 9.4 (19.3 ) Income taxes (benefits) 0.5 (14.5 ) 17.5 15.0 (32.0 ) Operating earnings (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interest (0.1 ) (1.9 ) 1.0 1.8 (2.9 ) Operating earnings $ 118.9 $ 126.3 $ 110.7 $ (7.4 ) $ 15.6 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 Operating Earnings Operating earnings decreased primarily due to lower investment returns on assets not backing segment insurance products as a result of deflation in Chile during 2009 coupled with weakening currencies in Latin America. These decreases were partially offset by increased earnings in our equity method investment in Brazil as a result of higher fee revenues and realized investment gains coupled with expense savings initiatives for the segment in 2009. Operating Revenues Premiums in Chile increased $35.3 million primarily due to higher sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies in the first half of 2009, which was partially offset by the weakening of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar. Fees and other revenues in Mexico decreased $8.2 million primarily due to the weakening of the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar, which was partially offset by higher investment management fees driven by higher AUM. Net investment income decreased in Chile primarily due to lower inflation based investment returns on average invested assets and cash as a result of deflation in 2009 and the weakening of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar. Total Expenses Benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $247.3 million in Chile, primarily due to lower inflation based interest crediting rates to customers, and the weakening of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar. Operating expenses decreased primarily due to expense savings efforts in 2009, the weakening of the Latin America currency against the U.S. dollar, a reduction in fund expenses passed to our asset management company in India and lower PVFP and DPAC amortization resulting from net unlocking and true up adjustments in Mexico. Income Taxes The effective income tax rates for the segment were 0% and 13% for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2009, was lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to taxes on our share of earnings generated from our equity method investments that are included in net investment income and the lower tax rates of foreign jurisdictions. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2008, was lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to additional U.S. foreign tax credits resulting from the second quarter 2008 enactment of legislation to increase the Brazilian tax rate, taxes on our share of earnings generated from our equity method investments being reflected in net investment income and the lower tax rates of foreign jurisdictions. The net increase in deferred tax liabilities associated with the 2008 enacted Brazilian income tax rate is reflected in net investment income because the equity method of accounting is applied to our Brazilian operations; however, the benefit from additional U.S. foreign tax credits is reflected in income tax expense, the result of which was a decrease to the effective income tax rate. 51 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 Operating Earnings Operating earnings in our equity method investment in Brazil increased $11.1 million primarily due to the strengthening of the Brazilian real versus the U.S. dollar, coupled with pricing changes resulting in higher fees and net unlocking and true up adjustments that lowered DPAC and PVFP amortization. Operating earnings in Chile increased $6.1 million primarily due to higher inflation based investment returns net of interest crediting to customers. Operating Revenues Premiums in Chile decreased $40.6 million primarily due to lower sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies. Fees and other revenues decreased $10.0 million primarily due to lower AUM and reduced fee charges for our operations in India. In addition, fees and other revenues decreased $4.0 million in Chile due to 2008 unlocking adjustments, which lowered unearned revenue accruals, and lower AUM. Net investment income increased in Chile primarily due to higher inflation based investment returns on average invested assets and cash. Total Expenses Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $54.4 million in Chile, primarily due to higher inflation based interest crediting rates to customers in 2008, which was partially offset by a lower change in reserve expense associated with decreased sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies. Operating expenses in Mexico increased $13.8 million primarily due lower DPAC and PVFP amortization resulting from net unlocking and true up adjustments in 2007 related to enacted legislation. This increase in operating expenses was partially offset by lower compensation costs for our corporate headquarters. Income Taxes The effective income tax rates for the segment were 13% and 14% for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2008, was lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to additional U.S. foreign tax credits resulting from the second quarter 2008 enactment of legislation to increase the Brazilian tax rate, taxes on our share of earnings generated from our equity method investments being reflected in net investment income, and the lower tax rates of foreign jurisdictions. The net increase in deferred tax liabilities associated with the 2008 enacted Brazilian income tax rate is reflected in net investment income because the equity method of accounting is applied to our Brazilian operations; however, the benefit from additional U.S. foreign tax credits is reflected in income tax expense, the result of which was a decrease to the effective income tax rate. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2007, was lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to taxes on our share of earnings generated from our equity method investments being reflected in net investment income and the lower tax rates of foreign jurisdictions. Life and Health Insurance Segment Individual Life Insurance Trends Our life insurance premiums are influenced by both economic and industry trends. In addition, we continue to shift our marketing emphasis to universal life insurance products from traditional life insurance products. Due to this shift in marketing emphasis, premiums related to our traditional life insurance products have declined, while fee revenues from our universal and variable universal life insurance products have grown. The following table provides a summary of our individual universal and variable universal life insurance fee revenues and our individual traditional life insurance premiums for the years indicated: Universal and variable universal life insurance Traditional life insurance For the year ended Fee revenues Premiums (in millions) December 31, 2009 $ 354.4 $ 557.3 December 31, 2008 338.8 591.7 December 31, 2007 282.6 611.7 Health Insurance Trends We have experienced lower premium revenue as increases in premium per member have been more than offset by a decrease in average covered medical members. 52 Table of Contents Our health insurance premium and fees were as follows for the years indicated: Premium and fees For the year ended Group medical insurance Fee for service (in millions) December 31, 2009 $ 1,485.5 $ 129.5 December 31, 2008 1,617.0 143.0 December 31, 2007 1,808.7 167.3 Our covered medical members were as follows for the years indicated: Covered medical members As of Group medical insurance Fee for service (in thousands) December 31, 2009 380.8 458.2 December 31, 2008 449.3 543.9 December 31, 2007 566.1 669.2 Specialty Benefits Insurance Trends Premium and fee growth for the individual disability line of our specialty benefits insurance business is being driven by solid sales and retention. The group lines, however, are experiencing a decline between 2008 and 2009 due to decreases in membership of existing employer customers, as well as slightly lower sales and higher lapses as we maintain pricing discipline in a very competitive environment. The following table provides a summary of our specialty benefits insurance premium and fees for the years indicated: Premium and fees For the year ended Group dental and vision insurance Group life insurance Group disability insurance Individual disability insurance (in millions) December 31, 2009 $ 539.9 $ 333.2 $ 290.8 $ 181.6 December 31, 2008 557.3 348.2 303.5 172.6 December 31, 2007 541.0 344.2 304.6 160.0 Life and Health Insurance Segment Summary Financial Data There are several key indicators for earnings growth in our Life and Health Insurance business. The ability of our distribution channels to generate new sales and retain existing business drives growth in our block of business, premium revenue and fee revenues. Our earnings growth also depends on our ability to price our products at a level that enables us to earn a margin over the cost of providing benefits and the expense of acquiring and administering those products. Factors impacting pricing decisions include competitive conditions, persistency, our ability to assess and manage trends in mortality and morbidity and our ability to manage operating expenses. The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the Life and Health Insurance segment for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, Increase (decrease) 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Operating revenues: Premiums and other considerations $ 3,257.2 $ 3,476.1 $ 3,671.6 $ (218.9 ) $ (195.5 ) Fees and other revenues 530.2 528.9 495.4 1.3 33.5 Net investment income 660.5 677.0 690.1 (16.5 ) (13.1 ) Total operating revenues 4,447.9 4,682.0 4,857.1 (234.1 ) (175.1 ) Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses 2,838.7 2,909.0 3,110.2 (70.3 ) (201.2 ) Dividends to policyholders 239.4 265.7 290.1 (26.3 ) (24.4 ) Operating expenses 1,009.3 1,104.7 1,129.5 (95.4 ) (24.8 ) Total expenses 4,087.4 4,279.4 4,529.8 (192.0 ) (250.4 ) Operating earnings before income taxes 360.5 402.6 327.3 (42.1 ) 75.3 Income taxes 118.2 132.2 106.2 (14.0 ) 26.0 Operating earnings $ 242.3 $ 270.4 $ 221.1 $ (28.1 ) $ 49.3 53 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 Operating Earnings Operating earnings in our health insurance business decreased $24.2 million primarily due to higher claim costs and a decrease in average covered medical members due to lower sales, lapses and a reduction in the number of covered lives of our existing customers resulting from the adverse economic environment. Health insurance operating earnings also decreased due to an increase in employee defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit costs. Operating earnings in our specialty benefits insurance business decreased $19.9 million, primarily due to an increase in employee defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit costs and the adverse impacts of the economic environment on investment income and premium growth. In addition, this decrease was due to a favorable change in reserve assumptions related to our individual disability business in the prior period, with no comparable change in the current period. Partially offsetting the decreases in operating earnings was a $16.0 million increase in our individual life insurance business due to lower DPAC amortization related to favorable true up impacts from equity markets in 2009 compared to unfavorable true up impacts from equity markets in 2008 and lower non deferred sales related expenses. Operating Revenues Premiums decreased $129.2 million in our health insurance business, primarily due to a reduction in average covered medical members, which was partially offset by an increase in premium per member. Premiums decreased $54.7 million in our individual life insurance business primarily due to the expected continued decline from the decreasing block of traditional life insurance business and an increase in reinsurance ceded on growing blocks of universal life and variable universal life insurance lines of business. Premiums decreased $35.0 million in our specialty benefits insurance business due to an increase in lapse rates in the first half of 2009, a decline in employment levels of our existing employer customers and a slight decrease in sales. Fees and other revenues increased $17.8 million in our individual life insurance business due to growth in the universal life and variable universal life lines of business, which was partially offset by a decrease in unearned revenue amortization. Partially offsetting this increase in fees and other revenues was a $15.6 million decrease in our health insurance business due to a decrease in average fee for service medical members. Net investment income decreased primarily due to lower investment returns on invested assets and cash related to our more liquid investment strategy for the segment. Total Expenses Benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $85.7 million in our health insurance business primarily due to a decrease in average covered medical members. Similarly, benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $11.5 million in our specialty benefits insurance business due to a decrease in membership. Partially offsetting this decrease in benefits, claims and settlement expenses was a $26.9 million increase in our individual life insurance business due to higher cost of interest credited related to growth in the universal life and variable universal life insurance lines of business and an increase in death benefit costs net of reinsurance. Dividends to policyholders decreased $26.3 million, primarily from updating the policyholder dividend scale to reflect the experience of the Closed Block. Operating expenses decreased $60.3 million in our individual life insurance business primarily related to lower DPAC amortization and lower non deferred sales related expenses. Operating expenses decreased $31.2 million in our health insurance business due to actively managing to lower expenses associated with a decline in insured medical and fee for service members. These decreases were partially offset by an increase in employee defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit costs for the segment. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate for the segment was 33% for both years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. The effective income tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate as a result of interest exclusion from taxable income and income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 Operating Earnings Operating earnings in our health insurance business increased $27.6 million primarily due to favorable prior year claim developments in 2008 compared to unfavorable prior year claim development in 2007. At the end of a reporting period, we recognize a liability for the estimate of claims incurred but not reported. In subsequent periods, an adjustment to prior period claim development is made to reflect actual or updated estimates of incurred claims. Operating earnings in our specialty benefits insurance business increased $18.3 million, primarily due to favorable claims experience in our disability businesses. Operating earnings in our individual life insurance business increased $3.4 million due to updating the dividend scale to reflect the experience of the Closed Block and growth in the business, partially offset by an increase in DPAC amortization. 54 Table of Contents Operating Revenues Premiums decreased $189.1 million in our health insurance business, as a reduction in average covered medical members was partially offset by an increase in premium per member. Premiums decreased $36.9 million in our individual life insurance business due to the expected continued decline from the decreasing block of traditional life insurance business. These decreases were partially offset by a $30.5 million increase in our specialty benefits insurance business due to growth in the individual disability line of business and dental trend (premium increase resulting from higher costs and utilization). Fees and other revenues increased $58.6 million in our individual life insurance business due to growth in the universal life and variable universal life lines of business. This increase in fees more than offset the decline in individual life insurance premiums. Partially offsetting this increase in fees and other revenues was a $26.9 million decrease in our health insurance business, largely due to a change in classification in 2008 of the reimbursement of certain pass through expenses, which removed them from both fee revenues and operating expenses, and a decrease in average fee for service medical members. Total Expenses Benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $216.2 million in our health insurance business due to a decrease in average covered medical members and favorable prior period claim development in 2008 compared to unfavorable prior year claim development in 2007. Dividends to policyholders decreased $24.4 million, primarily from updating the policyholder dividend scale to reflect the experience of the Closed Block. Operating expenses decreased $53.2 million in our health insurance business due to actively managing to lower expenses associated with a decline in insured medical and fee for service members and due to a change in classification in 2008 of the reimbursement of certain pass through expenses, removing them from both fee revenues and operating expenses. Partially offsetting this decrease was a $15.9 million increase in our individual life insurance business primarily related to higher DPAC amortization due to reduced equity market performance and worse mortality experience. Individual life insurance operating expenses also increased due to sales growth. Additionally, operating expenses increased $12.0 million in our specialty benefits insurance business in line with moderate growth in the business. Income Taxes The effective income tax rates for the segment were 33% and 32% for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The effective income tax rates were lower than the U.S. statutory rate as a result of interest exclusion from taxable income and income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received. Corporate Segment Corporate Segment Summary Financial Data The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the Corporate segment for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, Increase (decrease) 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Operating revenues: Total operating revenues $ (168.1 ) $ (202.8 ) $ (156.7 ) $ 34.7 $ (46.1 ) Expenses: Total expenses (41.5 ) (113.2 ) (120.6 ) 71.7 7.4 Operating losses before income taxes and preferred stock dividends (126.6 ) (89.6 ) (36.1 ) (37.0 ) (53.5 ) Income tax benefits (53.8 ) (42.9 ) (31.3 ) (10.9 ) (11.6 ) Preferred stock dividends 33.0 33.0 33.0 Operating losses attributable to noncontrolling interest (0.1 ) (0.1 ) (0.1 ) 0.1 Operating losses $ (105.7 ) $ (79.7 ) $ (37.7 ) $ (26.0 ) $ (42.0 ) Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 Operating Losses Operating losses increased due to higher interest expense on corporate debt as a result of the issuance of debt in May 2009, which was partially offset by the maturity of corporate debt in August 2009. In addition, operating losses increased due to the release of state deferred income tax liabilities associated with the reorganization of certain subsidiaries in 2008 with no corresponding activity in 2009. 55 Table of Contents Operating Revenues Operating revenues increased due to a decrease in inter segment eliminations included in this segment, which was offset by a corresponding change in total expenses. Total Expenses Total expenses increased due to a decrease in inter segment eliminations included in this segment, which was offset by a corresponding change in operating revenues. In addition, total expenses increased due to higher interest expense on corporate debt as a result of the issuance of debt in May 2009, which was partially offset by the maturity of corporate debt in August 2009. Income Taxes Income tax benefits increased due to an increase in operating loss before income taxes. Partially offsetting the increased income tax benefits was the release of state deferred income tax liabilities associated with the reorganization of certain subsidiaries in 2008 with no corresponding activity in 2009. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 Operating Losses Operating losses increased primarily due to a decline in average annualized investment yields and to a smaller extent by a decrease in average invested assets for the segment. The decline in average annualized investment yields was primarily due to a decrease in earnings from equity real estate investments and an increase in losses from certain equity method partnership interests. Operating Revenues Operating revenues decreased due to a decline in average annualized investment yields, resulting mostly from above average gains on equity real estate sales activity in the prior year, as well as lower earnings on certain equity method partnership interests where the underlying assets are marked to market. In addition, operating revenues decreased due to lower average invested assets for the segment. These decreases were offset in part by lower investment expenses due to the unwinding of our variable interest in a synthetic fuel production facility in 2008, as well as a decrease in inter segment eliminations included in this segment, which was offset by a corresponding change in total expenses. Total Expenses Total expenses increased due to higher interest expense related to federal income tax activities and interest expense on corporate debt. In addition, total expenses increased due to a decrease in inter segment eliminations included in this segment, which was offset by a corresponding change in operating revenues. These increases were partially offset by a decline in amounts credited to employee accounts in a nonqualified defined contribution pension plan. Income Taxes Income tax benefits increased due to an increase in operating loss before income taxes. Also contributing to the increased income tax benefits was the release of state deferred income tax liabilities associated with the reorganization of certain subsidiaries in 2008. The increased income tax benefits were offset in part by the reduction of synthetic fuel tax credits due to their expiration as of December 31, 2007. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity and capital resources represent the overall strength of a company and its ability to generate strong cash flows, borrow funds at a competitive rate and raise new capital to meet operating and growth needs. Our legal entity structure has an impact on our ability to meet cash flow needs as an organization. Following is a simplified organizational structure. 56  Table of Contents Liquidity Our liquidity requirements have been and will continue to be met by funds from consolidated operations as well as the issuance of commercial paper, common stock, debt or other capital securities and borrowings from credit facilities. We believe that cash flows from these sources are sufficient to satisfy the current liquidity requirements of our operations, including reasonably foreseeable contingencies. We maintain a level of cash and securities which, combined with expected cash inflows from investments and operations, is believed to be adequate to meet anticipated short term and long term payment obligations. We will continue our prudent capital management practice of regularly exploring options available to us to maximize capital flexibility, including accessing the capital markets and careful attention to and management of expenses. Although approximately $14.9 billion, or 98%, of our institutional GICs and funding agreements cannot be redeemed by contractholders prior to maturity and although our life insurance and annuity liabilities contain provisions limiting early surrenders, given market conditions we maintained a historically high position of cash and cash equivalent holdings through much of 2009. As a result, portfolio yields were lower than historically experienced. Our liquidity is also supported by an increasing portfolio of government backed securities, of which we held $4.2 billion as of December 31, 2009, an increase of over $1.0 billion since December 31, 2008, that may be utilized to bolster our liquidity position, as collateral for secured borrowing transactions with various third parties or disposing of securities in the open market, if needed. As of December 31, 2009, we had credit facilities with various financial institutions in an aggregate amount of $681.9 million. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had $101.6 million and $500.9 million of outstanding borrowings related to our credit facilities, with no assets pledged as support. None of these credit arrangements, other than our commercial paper back stop facility, are committed facilities. Due to the financial strength and the strong relationships we have with these providers, as well as the small size of these facilities, we are comfortable that there is a very low risk that the financial institutions would not be able to fund these facilities. Our credit facilities include a $579.0 million commercial paper program, of which $75.0 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2009. Our commercial paper program has a back stop facility to provide 100% support for our commercial paper program, of which there were no outstanding balances as of December 31, 2009. The back stop facility is a five year facility that matures in June 2012. The facility is supported by fourteen banks, most if not all that have other relationships with us. We have no reason to believe that our current providers would be unable or unwilling to fund the facility if necessary. The Holding Companies: Principal Financial Group, Inc. and Principal Financial Services, Inc. The principal sources of funds available to our parent holding company, PFG, to meet its obligations, including the payments of dividends on common stock, debt service and the repurchase of stock, are dividends from subsidiaries as well as its ability to borrow funds at competitive rates and raise capital to meet operating and growth needs. Dividends from Principal Life, our primary subsidiary, are limited by Iowa law. Under Iowa laws, Principal Life may pay dividends only from the earned surplus arising from its business and must receive the prior approval of the Insurance Commissioner of the State of Iowa ("the Commissioner") to pay stockholder dividends if such stockholder dividends would exceed certain statutory limitations. Iowa law gives the Commissioner discretion to disapprove requests for dividends in excess of these limits. In general, the current statutory limitations are the greater of (i) 10% of Principal Lifes statutory policyholder surplus as of the previous year end or (ii) the statutory net gain from operations from the previous calendar year. Based on these limitations, Principal Life could pay approximately $608.7 million in stockholder dividends in 2010. Principal Life could have paid approximately $651.3 million in statutory dividends in 2009 based on its 2008 statutory financial results without being subject to the limitations on payment of stockholder dividends. On March 27, 2009, a $645.0 million ordinary dividend was paid by Principal Life to its parent company from internal sources of liquidity. Following our second quarter issuance of debt and equity, on May 20, 2009, a $500.0 million capital contribution was made to Principal Life from its parent company. An additional $300.0 million capital contribution was made to Principal Life from its parent company on December 31, 2009. Principal Life could have paid approximately $686.5 million in statutory dividends in 2008 based on its 2007 statutory financial results without being subject to the limitations on payment of stockholder dividends. Total stockholder dividends paid by Principal Life to its parent company in 2008 were $5.5 million, which consisted of a non cash dividend of an equity method investment. Principal Life could have paid approximately $660.4 million in statutory dividends in 2007 based on its 2006 statutory financial results without being subject to the limitations on payment of stockholder dividends. The stockholder dividends paid by Principal Life to its parent company in 2007 were $650.0 million. Operations. Our primary consolidated cash flow sources are premiums from life and health insurance products, pension and annuity deposits, asset management fee revenues, administrative services fee revenues, income from investments and proceeds from the sales or maturity of investments. Cash outflows consist primarily of payment of benefits to policyholders and beneficiaries, income and other taxes, current operating expenses, payment of dividends to policyholders, payments in connection with investments acquired, payments made to acquire subsidiaries, payments relating to policy and contract surrenders, withdrawals, policy loans, interest expense and repayment of short term debt and long term debt. Our investment strategies are generally intended to provide adequate funds to pay benefits without forced sales of investments. For a discussion of our investment objectives, strategies and a discussion of duration 57 Table of Contents matching, see "Investments" as well as Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate Risk." Cash Flows. Activity, as reported in our consolidated statements of cash flows, provides relevant information regarding our sources and uses of cash. The following discussion of our operating, investing and financing portions of the cash flows excludes cash flows attributable to the separate accounts as well as our discontinued operations, which were as follows: For the year ended December 31, Cash flows attributable to discontinued operations: 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Net cash provided by operating activities $ $ $ 2.5 Net cash used in investing activities (1.3 ) Net cash used in financing activities (0.5 ) Net cash provided by operating activities was $2,243.0 million, $2,224.8 million and $2,960.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. As an insurance business, we typically generate positive cash flows from operating activities, as premiums collected from our insurance products and income received from our investments exceed policy acquisition costs, benefits paid, redemptions and operating expenses. These positive cash flows are then invested to support the obligations of our insurance products and required capital supporting these products. Our cash flows from operating activities are affected by the timing of premiums, fees, and investment income received and expenses paid. The increase in cash provided by operating activities in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily the result of fluctuations in receivables and payables associated with the timing of settlement, offset by a decline in premium, fees and other revenue received. The decrease in cash provided by operating activities in 2008 compared to 2007 was primarily the result of the fluctuations in receivables and payables associated with timing of settlement. Net cash provided by investing activities was $1,026.8 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to net cash used by investing activities of $2,917.2 million and $4,499.2 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The increase in cash provided by investing activities in 2009 compared to 2008 and the decrease in cash used in investing activities in 2008 compared to 2007 were primarily the result of an increase in net sales and maturities of investments. We have held and are holding higher cash balances to cover potential near term obligations and to further reposition our investment portfolio as necessary. Net cash used in financing activities was $3,637.4 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $1,956.0 million and $1,292.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2008 and 2007, respectively. The increase in cash used by financing activities in 2009 compared to 2008 is primarily due to an increase in net withdrawals of Principal Life general account investment contracts, partially due to our decision to scale back our investment only business, as well as payments of short term debt in the current year, compared to proceeds from short term debt in 2008. This increase in cash used in financing activities was partially offset by the issuance of common stock and long term debt in 2009. The increase in cash provided by financing activities in 2008 compared to 2007 is primarily due to our actions to increase liquidity and manage capital risk via a reduction in the acquisition of treasury stock as well as the reduction of our common stock dividend from prior year levels. Shelf Registration. We currently have an effective shelf registration which allows us the ability to issue, in unlimited amounts, unsecured senior debt securities or subordinated debt securities, junior subordinated debt, preferred stock, common stock, warrants, depository shares, stock purchase contracts and stock purchase units of PFG, trust preferred securities of three subsidiary trusts and guarantees by PFG of these trust preferred securities. Our wholly owned subsidiary, PFS, may guarantee, fully and unconditionally or otherwise, our obligations with respect to any non convertible securities, other than common stock, described in the shelf registration. In May 2009, we issued common stock and senior debt securities under the shelf registration. For information on senior notes issued from our shelf registration, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 10, Debt." Short Term Debt and Long Term Debt. For debt information, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 10, Debt." Stockholders Equity. Proceeds from the issuance of our common stock were $1,123.0 million, $36.4 million and $73.6 million in 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 58 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our return of capital to common stockholders in 2009, 2008 and 2007. For the year ended December 31, 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Dividends to stockholders $ 159.5 $ 116.7 $ 235.6 Repurchase of common stock 4.1 6.4 756.3 Total cash returned to stockholders $ 163.6 $ 123.1 $ 991.9 Number of shares repurchased 0.3 1.0 11.5 For additional stockholders equity information, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 14, Stockholders Equity." Capitalization Our capital structure as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, consisted of debt and equity summarized as follows: December 31, 2009 2008 (in millions) Debt: Short term debt $ 101.6 $ 500.9 Long term debt 1,584.6 1,290.5 Total debt 1,686.2 1,791.4 Stockholders equity: Equity excluding accumulated other comprehensive income 8,935.5 7,384.4 Total capitalization excluding accumulated other comprehensive income $ 10,621.7 $ 9,175.8 Debt to equity excluding accumulated other comprehensive income 19 % 24 % Debt to capitalization excluding accumulated other comprehensive income 16 % 20 % As of December 31, 2009, we have $761.7 million of excess capital, consisting of cash and highly liquid assets in the holding companies available for debt maturities, interest and preferred dividend expenses and other holding company obligations. We continue to maintain sufficient capital levels in Principal Life based on our current financial strength ratings. Contractual Obligations The following table presents payments due by period for long term contractual obligations as of December 31, 2009: Payments due in year ending Contractual Obligations (1) Total Payments 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 and thereafter (in millions) Contractholder funds (2) $ 58,011.5 $ 6,496.1 $ 11,936.9 $ 12,718.7 $ 26,859.8 Future policy benefits and claims (3) 38,242.9 2,097.3 3,535.1 3,372.7 29,237.8 Long term debt (4) 1,584.6 11.1 100.7 415.9 1,056.9 Certificates of deposit (5) 1,005.6 721.7 230.2 53.6 0.1 Other long term liabilities (6) 1,767.3 1,484.4 282.9 Capital leases 7.6 4.2 3.3 0.1 Long term debt interest 1,717.9 113.1 227.8 206.3 1,170.7 Operating leases (7) 229.8 50.8 74.6 39.3 65.1 Purchase obligations (8) 142.3 109.8 28.1 4.4 Total contractual obligations $ 102,709.5 $ 11,088.5 $ 16,419.6 $ 16,811.0 $ 58,390.4 (1)Excludes short term liabilities, other policyholder funds, taxes and short term debt as these are not long term and or not contractual in nature. Also excludes obligations under our pension and other postretirement benefit plans as we do not anticipate contributions will be needed to satisfy the minimum funding requirements of ERISA for our qualified pension plan. In addition, separate account liabilities are excluded. Separate account liabilities represent the fair market value of funds that are separately administered by us. Generally, the separate account contract owner, rather than us, bears the investment risk of these funds. The separate account liabilities are legally segregated and are not subject to claims that arise out of any other business of ours. Net deposits, net investment income and realized and unrealized capital gains and losses on the separate accounts are not reflected in the consolidated statement of operations. The separate account obligations will be fully funded by cash flows from the separate account assets. (2)Includes GICs, funding agreements, individual fixed annuities, universal life insurance and other investment type contracts. See Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 9, Insurance Liabilities" for additional information. Amounts included in the contractholder funds line item reflect estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders. The sum of the cash outflows shown for all years in the table exceeds the corresponding liability amount included in our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2009. The liability amount in our consolidated financial statements reflects either the account value (in the case of 59 Table of Contents individual fixed annuities, universal life insurance and GICs) or the par value plus accrued interest and other adjustments (in the case of funding agreements and other investment contracts). (3)Amounts included in the future policy benefits and claims line item reflect estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders. The sum of the cash outflows shown for all years in the table exceeds the corresponding liability amount included in our consolidated financial statements as of December 31, 2009. The liability amount in our consolidated financial statements reflects estimated cash payments to policyholders, reductions for expected future premiums, assumptions with regard to the timing of cash payments and discounting for interest. (4)For long term debt information, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 10, Debt." (5)Amounts included in the certificates of deposit line item reflect estimated cash payments to be made, including expected interest payments. Certificates of deposit are reported as other liabilities on our consolidated statement of financial position. (6)Other long term liabilities include other liabilities reflected in the consolidated statement of financial position that are contractual, non cancelable and long term in nature. The total payments primarily relate to checking and savings deposits. This line item excludes accruals, short term items and items not contractual in nature. (7)As a lessee, we lease office space, data processing equipment and office furniture and equipment under various operating leases. (8)Purchase obligations include material contracts where we have a non cancelable commitment to purchase goods and services in addition to commitments to originate loans and purchase investments. Pension and Other Postretirement Plan Funding We have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all of our U.S. employees and certain agents. See Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 12, Employee and Agent Benefits" for a complete discussion of these plans and their effect on the consolidated financial statements. We report the net funded status of our pension and other postretirement plans in the Consolidated Statements of Financial Condition as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income in stockholders equity. It represents the differences between the fair value of plan assets and the projected benefit obligation for pension plans and the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation for other postretirement plans that have not yet been recognized as a component of net periodic benefit cost. The measurement of the net funded status can vary based upon the fluctuations in the fair value of the plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for the plans as discussed below. The net underfunded status of the pension and other postretirement benefit obligation at December 31, 2009, was $485.7 million pre tax, an improvement of $188.9 million from a net underfunded status of $674.6 million pre tax at December 31, 2008. The improvement in the net funded status of the pension and other postretirement benefit obligation in 2009 is primarily related to improved market conditions experienced in 2009. Nonqualified pension plan assets are not included as part of the funding status mentioned above. The nonqualified pension plan assets are held in Rabbi trusts for the benefit of all nonqualified plan participants. The assets held in a Rabbi trust are available to satisfy the claims of general creditors only in the event of bankruptcy. Therefore, these assets are fully consolidated in our consolidated statements of financial position and are not reflected in our funded status as they do not qualify as plan assets under U.S. GAAP. The market value of assets held in these trusts was $245.1 million and $269.8 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Our funding policy for the qualified pension plan is to fund the plan annually in an amount at least equal to the minimum annual contributions required under ERISA and, generally, not greater than the maximum amount that can be deducted for federal income tax purposes. We do not anticipate contributions will be needed to satisfy the minimum funding requirements of ERISA for our qualified pension plan. At this time, it is too early to estimate the amount that may be contributed, but it is possible that we may fund the plans in 2010 in the range of $20 $75 million. This includes funding for both our qualified and nonqualified pension plans. We may contribute to our other postretirement benefit plans in 2010 pending further analysis. Contractual Commitments In connection with our banking business, we make additional commitments to extend credit, which are agreements to lend to a customer as long as there is no violation of any conditions established in the contract. Commitments generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses and may require payment of a fee. A majority of these commitments are lines of credit and are expected to expire without being drawn upon. Therefore, the total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future cash funding requirements. We evaluate each customers creditworthiness on a case by case basis. The total commitments to fund loans were $68.5 million as of December 31, 2009. We have made commitments to fund certain limited partnerships in which we are a limited partner. As of December 31, 2009, the amount of unfunded commitments was $63.8 million. We are only required to fund additional equity under these commitments when called upon to do so by the general partner; therefore, these commitments are not liabilities on our consolidated statements of financial position. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Variable Interest Entities. We have relationships with various types of special purpose entities and other entities where we have a variable interest as described in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated 60 Table of Contents Financial Statements, Note 4, Variable Interest Entities." We do not have a direct or contingent obligation related to our unconsolidated variable interest entities ("VIE") other than described below. Guarantees and Indemnifications. For guarantee and indemnification information, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 13, Contingencies, Guarantees and Indemnifications" under the caption, "Guarantees and Indemnifications." Financial Strength Rating and Credit Ratings Our ratings are influenced by the relative ratings of our peers/competitors as well as many other factors including our operating and financial performance, asset quality, liquidity, asset/liability management, overall portfolio mix, financial leverage (i.e., debt), risk exposures, operating leverage, ratings and other factors. NRSROs publish financial strength ratings on U.S. life insurance companies that are indicators of an insurance companys ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations. NRSROs also assign credit ratings on non life insurance entities, such as PFG and PFS. Credit ratings are indicators of a debt issuers ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner, and are important factors in overall funding profile and ability to access external capital. Such ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities. Ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning NRSRO. Each of A.M. Best Company, Inc., Fitch Ratings Ltd., Moodys Investors Service, and Standard & Poors revised its outlook for the U.S. life insurance sector to negative from stable in mid to late 2008. This negative outlook is still in place as of year end 2009. Of the many issues cited, the negative outlook was primarily based on expectations for higher than normal credit losses, negative impact of the volatile equity market on earnings and reduced financial flexibility. These outlook revisions resulted in an increased review of the U.S. life insurance sector by the major independent rating organizations. As a result, there have been and will continue to be changes in the benchmarks for capital, liquidity, earnings and other factors used by these NRSROs that are critical to a ratings assignment at a particular rating level. As a reflection of the change by the rating agencies of their view of the market and the impact on life insurance companies, Principal Life experienced negative rating actions by the agencies in the first quarter of 2009. In the second quarter of 2009, there were positive actions taken on Principal Lifes rating outlook subsequent to the issuance of equity and debt. On May 13, 2009, S&P affirmed Principal Lifes insurance financial strength rating of A+ and changed the outlook to positive from stable. Similarly, on May 13, 2009, Fitch affirmed Principal Lifes insurance financial strength rating of AA , and changed the outlook to negative from rating watch negative. This rating was reaffirmed on February 16, 2010. Fitch maintains the negative outlook on the rating. Further, on May 20, 2009, Moodys affirmed Principal Lifes insurance financial strength rating of Aa3 and changed the outlook to stable from negative. This rating was reaffirmed on November 25, 2009. AM Best maintains the negative outlook on Principal Lifes insurance financial strength rating of A+. The changes in the outlook on Principal Lifes ratings indicate the positive view that the agencies have on our debt and equity issuances; however, the agencies still have concerns about the potential impact of the economic turmoil on Principal Lifes financial flexibility. In July 2009, PNLIC financial strength ratings were publicly announced. PNLIC has been established to write individual life insurance products in 49 states. Initially only fixed products will be sold, with variable products being added at a later date. The following table summarizes our significant financial strength and debt ratings from the major independent rating organizations. The debt ratings shown are indicative ratings. Outstanding issuances are rated the same as indicative ratings unless otherwise noted. Actual ratings can differ from indicative ratings based on contractual terms. A.M. Best Fitch Standard & Poors Moodys Principal Financial Group Senior Unsecured Debt (1) BBB+ Baa1 Preferred Stock (2) BBB Baa3 Principal Financial Services Senior Unsecured Debt BBB+ Commercial Paper F 1 A 2 P 2 Principal Life Insurance Company Insurer Financial Strength A+ AA A+ Aa3 Enterprise Risk Management Rating Strong Principal National Life Insurance Company Insurer Financial Strength A+ AA A+ Aa3 (1)Moodys has rated Principal Financial Groups senior debt issuance "A3" (2)S&P has rated Principal Financial Groups preferred stock issuance "BB+" Impacts of Income Taxes For income tax information, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 11, Income Taxes." 61  Table of Contents Fair Value Measurement Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (an exit price). The fair value hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into three levels for disclosure purposes. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority (Level 1) to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities and gives the lowest priority (Level 3) to unobservable inputs. An asset or liabilitys classification within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of significant input to its valuation. See Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 15, Fair Value of Financial Instruments" for further details. As of December 31, 2009, 37% of our net assets (liabilities) were Level 1, 58% were Level 2 and 5% were Level 3. Excluding separate account assets as of December 31, 2009, 3% of our net assets (liabilities) were Level 1, 95% were Level 2 and 2% were Level 3. As of December 31, 2008, 32% of our net assets (liabilities) were Level 1, 61% were Level 2 and 7% were Level 3. Excluding separate account assets as of December 31, 2008, 2% of our net assets (liabilities) were Level 1, 95% were Level 2 and 3% were Level 3. Changes in Level 3 fair value measurements The net change for all assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) for the year ended December 31, 2009, was as follows: Balance as of December 31, 2009 Balance as of December 31, 2008 Net change (in millions) Assets Total fixed maturities, available for sale $ 1,172.6 $ 1,173.0 $ (0.4 ) Fixed maturities, trading 63.5 60.7 2.8 Equity securities, available for sale 71.7 56.2 15.5 Derivative assets 54.4 100.7 (46.3 ) Separate account assets 4,120.7 6,042.3 (1,921.6 ) Liabilities Investment type insurance contracts (23.6 ) (60.2 ) 36.6 Derivative liabilities (93.7 ) (266.9 ) 173.2 Other liabilities (89.1 ) (103.8 ) 14.7 Net total $ 5,276.5 $ 7,002.0 $ (1,725.5 ) The decrease in the fair value of Level 3 instruments for the year ended December 31, 2009, is primarily attributed to separate account assets. The decrease in separate account assets is primarily a result of unrealized losses on real estate. Unrealized losses on separate accounts do not impact net income in the consolidated statements of operations, as the change in value of separate account assets is offset by a change in value of separate account liabilities. The net change for all assets and liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) for the year ended December 31, 2008, was as follows: Balance as of December 31, 2008 Balance as of January 1, 2008 Net change (in millions) Assets Total fixed maturities, available for sale $ 1,173.0 $ 2,201.3 $ (1,028.3 ) Fixed maturities, trading 60.7 92.3 (31.6 ) Equity securities, available for sale 56.2 51.1 5.1 Derivative assets 100.7 54.3 46.4 Separate account assets 6,042.3 7,313.2 (1,270.9 ) Liabilities Investment type insurance contracts (60.2 ) (49.3 ) (10.9 ) Derivative liabilities (266.9 ) (62.3 ) (204.6 ) Other liabilities (103.8 ) (155.6 ) 51.8 Net total $ 7,002.0 $ 9,445.0 $ (2,443.0 ) The decrease in the fair value of Level 3 instruments for the year ended December 31, 2008, is primarily attributed to separate account assets and fixed maturities, available for sale. The decrease in separate account assets is primarily a result of unrealized losses on real estate. Unrealized losses on separate accounts do not impact net income in the consolidated statements of operations as the change in value of separate account assets is offset by a change in value of separate account liabilities. The decrease in fixed maturities, available for sale resulted from the settlement of certain credit collateralized debt obligations and unrealized losses recognized in other comprehensive income. Most of the unrealized losses related to corporate bonds, with lesser amounts attributed to collateralized debt obligations, asset backed securities, and commercial mortgage backed securities. 62 Table of Contents Investments We had total consolidated assets as of December 31, 2009, of $137.8 billion, of which $63.9 billion were invested assets. The rest of our total consolidated assets are comprised primarily of separate account assets for which we do not bear investment risk. Because we generally do not bear any investment risk on assets held in separate accounts, the discussion and financial information below does not include such assets. Overall Composition of Invested Assets Invested assets as of December 31, 2009, were predominantly high quality and broadly diversified across asset class, individual credit, industry and geographic location. Asset allocation is determined based on cash flow and the risk/return requirements of our products. As shown in the following table, the major categories of invested assets are fixed maturity securities and commercial mortgage loans. The remainder is invested in residential mortgage loans, real estate, equity securities and other assets. In addition, policy loans are included in our invested assets. December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Carrying amount % of total Carrying amount % of total ($ in millions) Fixed maturity securities: Public $ 33,719.6 53 % $ 28,786.7 49 % Private 13,533.4 21 12,173.9 21 Equity securities 435.5 1 400.7 1 Mortgage loans: Commercial 10,121.8 16 11,279.3 19 Residential 1,723.8 2 1,834.3 3 Real estate held for sale 35.4 139.6 Real estate held for investment 999.2 2 779.8 1 Policy loans 902.5 1 896.4 1 Other investments 2,465.3 4 2,816.6 5 Total invested assets 63,936.5 100 % 59,107.3 100 % Cash and cash equivalents 2,240.4 2,608.0 Total invested assets and cash $ 66,176.9 $ 61,715.3 Investment Results Net Investment Income The following table presents the yield and investment income, excluding net realized capital gains and losses, for our invested assets for the years indicated. We calculate annualized yields using a simple average of asset classes at the beginning and end of the reporting period. The yields for fixed maturity securities and equity securities are calculated using amortized cost and cost, respectively. All other yields are calculated using carrying amounts. For the year ended December 31, Increase (decrease) 2009 2008 2007 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount ($ in millions) Fixed maturity securities 5.6 % $ 2,717.2 6.5 % $ 3,105.8 6.4 % $ 2,869.2 (0.9 )% $ (388.6 ) 0.1 % $ 236.6 Equity securities 4.2 19.3 3.6 18.9 3.8 27.0 0.6 0.4 (0.2 ) (8.1 ) Mortgage loans commercial 5.8 617.7 6.1 666.8 6.6 688.9 (0.3 ) (49.1 ) (0.5 ) (22.1 ) Mortgage loans residential 4.0 71.2 8.3 154.8 7.5 129.7 (4.3 ) (83.6 ) 0.8 25.1 Real estate 3.7 35.9 6.1 54.6 8.9 74.9 (2.4 ) (18.7 ) (2.8 ) (20.3 ) Policy loans 6.9 62.0 6.6 58.3 6.1 52.6 0.3 3.7 0.5 5.7 Cash and cash equivalents 0.5 13.0 2.9 57.0 7.2 105.9 (2.4 ) (44.0 ) (4.3 ) (48.9 ) Other investments (0.9 ) (24.0 ) 0.9 21.8 9.3 165.1 (1.8 ) (45.8 ) (8.4 ) (143.3 ) Total before investment expenses 5.1 3,512.3 6.1 4,138.0 6.5 4,113.3 (1.0 ) (625.7 ) (0.4 ) 24.7 Investment expenses (0.1 ) (111.5 ) (0.2 ) (143.7 ) (0.2 ) (146.8 ) 0.1 32.2 3.1 Net investment income 5.0 % $ 3,400.8 5.9 % $ 3,994.3 6.3 % $ 3,966.5 (0.9 )% $ (593.5 ) (0.4 )% $ 27.8 Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 Net investment income on fixed maturity securities decreased primarily due to lower inflation based investment returns related to deflation in Chile during 2009, lower yields on floating rate investments supporting floating rate liabilities and a decrease in average invested assets. In addition, net investment income on mortgage loans residential decreased primarily due to deflation in Chile during 2009. 63 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 Net investment income increased primarily due to a higher average invested asset balance and higher inflation based investment returns on fixed maturities in Chile during 2008. This increase was partially offset by lower yields on floating rate investments supporting floating rate policyholder liabilities as well as an increased allocation to lower yielding cash and cash equivalent holdings in 2008. Net Realized Capital Gains (Losses) The following table presents the contributors to net realized capital gains and losses for our invested assets for the years indicated. Increase (decrease) For the year ended December 31, 2009 vs. 2008 2008 vs. 2007 2009 2008 2007 (in millions) Fixed maturities, available for sale credit impairments (1) $ (429.9 ) $ (411.0 ) $ (262.8 ) $ (18.9 ) $ (148.2 ) Fixed maturities, available for sale other (2) 110.2 23.1 17.1 87.1 6.0 Fixed maturities, trading 49.3 (61.7 ) 1.7 111.0 (63.4 ) Equity securities credit impairments (20.5 ) (47.3 ) (51.3 ) 26.8 4.0 Derivatives and related hedge activities (3) (11.5 ) (36.1 ) (89.0 ) 24.6 52.9 Commercial mortgages (120.1 ) (44.3 ) (7.2 ) (75.8 ) (37.1 ) Other gains (losses) 24.2 (116.8 ) 62.7 141.0 (179.5 ) Net realized capital gains (losses) $ (398.3 ) $ (694.1 ) $ (328.8 ) $ 295.8 $ (365.3 ) (1)Includes credit impairments as well as credit losses on sales, net of realized credit recoveries on the sale of previously impaired securities. (2)Includes gains on sales. (3)Includes fixed maturities, available for sale impairment related net losses of $2.8 million and $21.0 million for 2009 and 2008, respectively, which were hedged by derivatives reflected in this line. We did not recognize any fixed maturities, available for sale impairment related losses in derivatives and related hedge activities for 2007. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 Net realized capital losses on fixed maturities, available for sale credit impairments and net realized capital gains on fixed maturities, available for sale other increased as a result of actions to reduce asset ratings drift risk by selling and tendering certain securities. Net realized capital gains on fixed maturities, trading increased due to mark to market gains versus losses on these securities, resulting from narrowing credit spreads and improvement in market liquidity during the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009. Net realized capital losses on commercial mortgages increased primarily due to increases in the valuation allowance, reflecting a continued decline in the real estate market. Other net realized capital gains increased due to gains versus losses on the mark to market of equity securities classified as trading and certain seed money investments due to improvement in the equity market in 2009. Year Ended December 31, 2008 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2007 Net realized capital losses on fixed maturities, available for sale credit impairments increased primarily due to the deteriorating economic conditions in 2008 relative to 2007. Net realized capital losses on fixed maturities, trading increased due to higher mark to market losses versus gains on these securities, resulting from wider credit spreads in the marketplace and reduced market liquidity. Net realized capital losses on derivatives and related hedge activities decreased due to gains versus losses on interest rate swaps and equity derivatives not designated as hedging instruments, resulting from a decline in long term interest rates and a decline in the S&P index. These gains were partially offset by increased losses on credit default swaps due to widening credit spreads. Other net realized capital losses increased due to losses versus gains on the mark to market of equity securities classified as trading and certain seed money investments due to declining market prices. U.S. Investment Operations Of our invested assets, $59.5 billion were held by our U.S. operations as of December 31, 2009. Our U.S. invested assets are managed primarily by our Global Asset Management segment. Our primary investment objective is to maximize after tax returns consistent with acceptable risk parameters. We seek to protect policyholders benefits by optimizing the risk/return relationship on an ongoing basis, through asset/liability matching, reducing the credit risk, 64 Table of Contents avoiding high levels of investments that may be redeemed by the issuer, maintaining sufficiently liquid investments and avoiding undue asset concentrations through diversification. We are exposed to three primary sources of investment risk: credit risk, relating to the uncertainty associated with the continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments of principal and interest; interest rate risk, relating to the market price and or cash flow variability associated with changes in market yield curves and equity risk, relating to adverse fluctuations in a particular common stock, which we have limited exposure to in our portfolio. Our ability to manage credit risk is essential to our business and our profitability. We devote considerable resources to the credit analysis of each new investment. We manage credit risk through industry, issuer and asset class diversification. Our Investment Committee, appointed by our Board of Directors, is responsible for establishing all investment policies and approving or authorizing all investments, except the Executive Committee of the Board must approve any investment transaction exceeding $500.0 million. As of December 31, 2009, there are nine members on the Investment Committee, one of whom is a member of our Board of Directors. The remaining members are senior management members representing various areas of our company. We also seek to reduce call or prepayment risk arising from changes in interest rates in individual investments. We limit our exposure to investments that are prepayable without penalty prior to maturity at the option of the issuer and we require additional yield on these investments to compensate for the risk that the issuer will exercise such option. We assess option risk in all investments we make and, when we take that risk, we price for it accordingly. Our Fixed Income Securities Committee, consisting of fixed income securities senior management members, approves the credit rating for the fixed maturity securities we purchase. Teams of security analysts, organized by industry, analyze and monitor these investments. In addition, we have teams who specialize in residential mortgage backed securities, commercial mortgage backed securities ("CMBS"), asset backed securities ("ABS") and public below investment grade securities. We establish a credit reviewed list of approved public issuers to provide an efficient way for our portfolio managers to purchase liquid bonds for which credit review has already been completed. Issuers remain on the list for one year unless removed by our analysts. Our analysts monitor issuers on the list on a continuous basis with a formal review documented annually or more frequently if material events affect the issuer. The analysis includes both fundamental and technical factors. The fundamental analysis encompasses both quantitative and qualitative analysis of the issuer. The qualitative analysis includes an assessment of both accounting and management aggressiveness of the issuer. In addition, technical indicators such as stock price volatility and credit default swap levels are monitored. Our Fixed Income Securities Committee also reviews private transactions on a continuous basis to assess the quality ratings of our privately placed investments. We regularly review our investments to determine whether we should re rate them, employing the following criteria: material declines in the issuers revenues or margins; significant management or organizational changes; significant uncertainty regarding the issuers industry; debt service coverage or cash flow ratios that fall below industry specific thresholds; violation of financial covenants and other business factors that relate to the issuer. A dedicated risk management team is responsible for centralized monitoring of the commercial mortgage loan portfolio. We apply a variety of strategies to minimize credit risk in our commercial mortgage loan portfolio. When considering the origination of new commercial mortgage loans, we review the cash flow fundamentals of the property, make a physical assessment of the underlying security, conduct a comprehensive market analysis and compare against industry lending practices. We use a proprietary risk rating model to evaluate all new and a majority of existing loans within the portfolio. The proprietary risk model is designed to stress projected cash flows under simulated economic and market downturns. Our lending guidelines are designed to encourage 75% or less loan to value ratios and a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.2 times. We analyze investments outside of these guidelines based on cash flow quality, tenancy and other factors. The weighted average loan to value ratio at origination for new brick and mortar commercial mortgages, excluding Global Asset Management segment mortgages, in our portfolio was 52% and 59% as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The debt service coverage ratio at loan inception for new brick and mortar commercial mortgages, excluding Global Asset Management segment mortgages, in our portfolio was 2.0 and 1.7 times as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The weighted average loan to value ratio for loans held in our brick and mortar commercial mortgage portfolio, excluding Global Asset Management segment mortgages, as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 was 69% and 62%, respectively. The debt service coverage ratio for loans held in our brick and mortar commercial mortgage portfolio, excluding Global Asset Management segment mortgages, as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 was 1.8 times for both time periods. 65  Table of Contents Our investment decisions and objectives are a function of the underlying risks and product profiles of each primary business operation. In addition, we diversify our product portfolio offerings to include products that contain features that will protect us against fluctuations in interest rates. Those features include adjustable crediting rates, policy surrender charges and market value adjustments on liquidations. For further information on our management of interest rate risk, see Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate Risk." Overall Composition of U.S. Invested Assets As shown in the following table, the major categories of U.S. invested assets are fixed maturity securities and commercial mortgage loans. The remainder is invested in residential mortgage loans, real estate, equity securities and other assets. In addition, policy loans are included in our invested assets. The following discussion analyzes the composition of U.S. invested assets, but excludes invested assets of the separate accounts. December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Carrying amount % of total Carrying amount % of total ($ in millions) Fixed maturity securities: Public $ 30,952.5 52 % $ 26,652.5 48 % Private 13,533.4 23 12,173.9 22 Equity securities 388.8 1 359.9 1 Mortgage loans: Commercial 10,121.8 17 11,279.3 20 Residential 1,128.7 2 1,354.4 2 Real estate held for sale 23.8 135.4 Real estate held for investment 998.4 2 779.8 1 Policy loans 881.3 1 881.4 2 Other investments 1,480.2 2 2,162.4 4 Total invested assets 59,508.9 100 % 55,779.0 100 % Cash and cash equivalents 2,192.3 2,537.0 Total invested assets and cash $ 61,701.2 $ 58,316.0 Fixed Maturity Securities Fixed maturity securities consist of publicly traded and privately placed bonds, mortgage backed securities, redeemable preferred stock and certain nonredeemable preferred stock. Included in the privately placed category as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, were $7.4 billion and $6.2 billion, respectively, of securities subject to certain holding periods and resale restrictions pursuant to Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933. Fixed maturity securities include trading portfolios that support investment strategies that involve the active and frequent purchase and sale of fixed maturity securities. We held $348.1 million of these trading securities as of December 31, 2009, and did not hold any of these securities as of December 31, 2008. Fixed maturity securities were diversified by category of issuer as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, as shown in the following table: December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Carrying amount % of total Carrying amount % of total ($ in millions) U.S. Government and agencies $ 781.9 2 % $ 595.2 1 % States and political subdivisions 2,218.2 5 2,176.7 6 Non U.S. governments 462.4 1 478.5 1 Corporate public 19,182.8 43 17,224.9 44 Corporate private 11,604.7 26 10,365.4 27 Residential pass through securities 3,367.7 7 2,187.9 6 Commercial mortgage backed securities 3,602.9 8 3,607.1 9 Residential collateralized mortgage obligations 1,172.4 3 768.6 2 Asset backed securities 2,092.9 5 1,422.1 4 Total fixed maturity securities $ 44,485.9 100 % $ 38,826.4 100 % We believe that it is desirable to hold residential mortgage backed pass through securities due to their credit quality and liquidity as well as portfolio diversification characteristics. Our portfolio is comprised of Government National Mortgage Association, Federal National Mortgage Association and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation pass through securities. In addition, our residential collateralized mortgage obligation portfolio offers structural features that allow cash flows to be matched to our liabilities. CMBS provide varying levels of credit protection, diversification and reduced event risk depending on the securities owned and composition of the loan pool. CMBS are predominantly comprised of large pool securitizations that are diverse by property type, borrower and geographic dispersion. The risks to any CMBS deal are determined by the credit 66 Table of Contents quality of the underlying loans and how those loans perform over time. Another key risk is the vintage of the underlying loans and the state of the markets during a particular vintage. In the CMBS market, there is a material difference in the outlook for the performance of loans originated in 2005 and earlier relative to loans originated in 2006 through 2008. For loans originated prior to 2006, underwriting assumptions were more conservative regarding required debt service coverage and loan to value ratios. For the 2006 through 2008 vintages, real estate values peaked and the underwriting expectations were that values would continue to increase, which makes those loan values more sensitive to market declines. We purchase ABS to diversify the overall credit risks of the fixed maturity securities portfolio and to provide attractive returns. The principal risks in holding ABS are structural and credit risks. Structural risks include the securitys priority in the issuers capital structure, the adequacy of and ability to realize proceeds from the collateral and the potential for prepayments. Credit risks involve issuer/servicer risk where collateral values can become impaired in the event of servicer credit deterioration. Our ABS portfolio is diversified both by type of asset and by issuer. We actively monitor holdings of ABS to ensure that the risk profile of each security improves or remains consistent. Prepayments in the ABS portfolio are, in general, insensitive to changes in interest rates or are insulated from such changes by call protection features. In the event that we are subject to prepayment risk, we monitor the factors that impact the level of prepayment and prepayment speed for those ABS. In addition, we diversify the risks of ABS by holding a diverse class of securities, which limits our exposure to any one security. The international exposure held in our U.S. operations fixed maturity securities portfolio totaled $9,669.8 million, or 22%, and $8,178.3 million, or 21%, of total fixed maturity securities, as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. It is comprised of corporate and foreign government fixed maturity securities. The following table presents our international exposure for our U.S. operations fixed maturity securities portfolio for the periods indicated. December 31, 2009 Carrying amount December 31, 2008 Carrying amount (in millions) European Union $ 2,913.1 $ 2,432.9 United Kingdom 2,219.8 2,049.5 Australia 1,127.5 743.5 Asia 1,067.5 973.3 South America 523.9 500.8 Mexico 269.1 264.9 Japan 54.6 50.8 Other countries (1) 1,494.3 1,162.6 Total $ 9,669.8 $ 8,178.3 (1)Includes exposure from 23 countries as of December 31, 2009 and 24 countries as of December 31, 2008. All international fixed maturity securities held by our U.S. operations are either denominated in U.S. dollars or have been swapped into U.S. dollar equivalents. Our international investments are analyzed internally by country and industry credit investment professionals. We control concentrations using issuer and country level exposure benchmarks, which are based on the credit quality of the issuer and the country. Our investment policy limits total international fixed maturity securities investments to 20% of Principal Lifes total statutory general account assets with a 4% limit in emerging markets. Exposure to Canada is not included in our international exposure. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, our investments in Canada totaled $1,612.7 million and $1,402.2 million, respectively. Fixed Maturity Securities Credit Concentrations. One aspect of managing credit risk is through industry issuer and asset class diversification. Our credit concentrations are managed to established limits. The exposure attributed to monoline bond and mortgage insurers from investments that are guaranteed by them is not included in the evaluation of our top ten exposures. We are not relying on said guarantors and are directly evaluating exposure to these investments. The following table presents our top ten exposures as of December 31, 2009. Amortized cost (in millions) JP Morgan Chase & Co. (1) $ 313.7 Bank of America Corp. (1) 290.2 Wells Fargo & Co. (1) 246.2 General Electric Co. 236.4 AT&T Inc. 236.2 Verizon Communications Inc. 170.5 Credit Suisse Group AG (1) 154.5 Prudential Financial Inc. 146.6 ConocoPhillips 140.3 Goldman Sachs Group Inc. (1) 139.7 Total top ten exposures $ 2,074.3 (1)Includes actual counterparty exposure. 67 Table of Contents We have exposure to monoline bond and mortgage insurers with an amortized cost of $713.4 million and a carrying amount of $658.9 million as of December 31, 2009. The $713.4 million includes wrapped guarantees on $680.2 million of underlying municipal bonds, corporate credit or ABS. Our direct exposure to these insurers was $33.2 million. Of the $680.2 million in wrapped guarantees, 41% was municipal bonds, of which 99% was investment grade; 41% was investment grade bank perpetual preferred securities; 12% was ABS backed by sub prime or Alt A first lien mortgages, of which 32% was investment grade; and 6% was corporate fixed maturities, of which 92% was investment grade. Fixed Maturity Securities Valuation and Credit Quality. Valuation techniques for the fixed maturity securities portfolio vary by security type and the availability of market data. The use of different pricing techniques and their assumptions could produce different financial results. See Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 15, Fair Value of Financial Instruments" for further details regarding our pricing methodology. Once prices are determined, they are reviewed by pricing analysts for reasonableness based on asset class and observable market data. In addition, investment analysts who are familiar with specific securities review prices for reasonableness through direct interaction with external sources, review of recent trade activity or use of internal models. Monthly, all bonds placed on the "watch list" are analyzed by investment analysts or analysts that focus on troubled securities ("Workout Group"). This group then meets with the Chief Investment Officer and the Portfolio Managers to determine reasonableness of prices. The valuation of impaired bonds for which there is no quoted price is typically based on the present value of the future cash flows expected to be received. Although we believe these values reasonably reflect the fair value of those securities, the key assumptions about risk premiums, performance of underlying collateral (if any) and other market factors involve qualitative and unobservable inputs. The Securities Valuation Office ("SVO") of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") monitors the bond investments of insurers for regulatory reporting purposes and when required assigns securities to one of six investment categories. In 2009, the NAIC approved an initiative to create a new modeling and assessment process for non agency residential mortgage backed securities effective December 31, 2009. The NAIC retained PIMCO Advisors to undertake the modeling and assignment of the NAIC ratings for these securities. The NAIC designations closely mirror the NRSROs credit ratings for marketable bonds. NAIC designations 1 and 2 include bonds considered investment grade by such rating organizations. Bonds are considered investment grade when rated "Baa3" or higher by Moodys, or "BBB " or higher by Standard & Poors. NAIC designations 3 through 6 are referred to as below investment grade. Bonds are considered below investment grade when rated "Ba1" or lower by Moodys, or "BB+" or lower by Standard & Poors. As of December 31, 2009, the percentage, based on fair value, of total publicly traded and privately placed fixed maturity securities that were investment grade with an NAIC designation 1 or 2 was 92%. The following table presents our total fixed maturity securities by NAIC designation and the equivalent ratings of the NRSROs as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, as well as the percentage, based on fair value, that each designation comprises: December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 NAIC rating Rating agency equivalent Amortized cost Carrying amount % of total carrying amount Amortized cost Carrying amount % of total carrying amount ($ in millions) 1 Aaa/Aa/A $ 25,527.2 $ 25,341.5 57 % $ 25,981.0 $ 22,116.9 57 % 2 Baa 15,885.1 15,726.8 35 17,669.2 14,675.2 38 3 Ba 2,824.1 2,259.4 5 2,469.8 1,760.6 5 4 B 982.8 701.3 2 254.2 163.9 5 Caa and lower 376.1 253.0 1 109.7 62.3 6 In or near default 349.4 203.9 71.2 47.5 Total fixed maturity securities $ 45,944.7 $ 44,485.9 100 % $ 46,555.1 $ 38,826.4 100 % Fixed maturity securities include 26 securities with an amortized cost of $320.8 million, gross gains of $7.1 million, gross losses of $6.8 million and a carrying amount of $321.1 million as of December 31, 2009, that are still pending a review and assignment of a rating by the SVO. Due to the timing of when fixed maturity securities are purchased, legal documents are filed and the review by the SVO is completed, there will always be securities in our portfolio that are unrated over a reporting period. In these instances, an equivalent rating is assigned based on our fixed income analysts assessment. Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities and Home Equity Asset Backed Securities Portfolios. As of December 31, 2009, based on amortized cost, 63% of our CMBS portfolio had ratings of A or higher and 55% was issued in 2005 or before and 50% of our ABS home equity portfolio had ratings of A or higher and 86% was issued in 2005 or before. 68 Table of Contents The following table presents credit quality and year of issuance ("vintage") for our CMBS: December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Amortized cost Carrying amount Amortized cost Carrying amount (in millions) Lowest agency rating AAA $ 2,085.7 $ 2,019.9 $ 3,558.3 $ 2,757.0 AA 377.0 331.9 812.7 373.4 A 615.7 471.0 673.0 270.8 BBB 684.1 443.4 555.3 179.7 BB and below 1,138.7 336.7 86.0 26.2 Total by lowest agency rating $ 4,901.2 $ 3,602.9 $ 5,685.3 $ 3,607.1 Vintage 2003 and prior $ 1,340.6 $ 1,216.6 $ 1,888.6 $ 1,587.2 2004 533.3 431.2 586.3 393.5 2005 833.4 624.4 913.6 547.9 2006 (1) 525.7 336.2 563.4 282.8 2007 (1) 1,543.4 903.7 1,642.3 750.4 2008 90.8 57.2 91.1 45.3 2009 (2) 34.0 33.6 Total by vintage $ 4,901.2 $ 3,602.9 $ 5,685.3 $ 3,607.1 (1)As of December 31, 2009, 41% of the 2006 vintage are rated AAA and 3% are rated AA, and 23% of the 2007 vintage are rated AAA and 3% are rated AA. (2)Consists of agency multi family mortgage backed securities. The following table presents our exposure to ABS home equity portfolio supported by subprime first lien mortgages by credit quality and vintage: December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Amortized cost Carrying amount Amortized cost Carrying amount (in millions) Lowest agency rating AAA $ 130.2 $ 104.7 $ 281.8 $ 201.5 AA 98.5 68.1 94.0 56.0 A 16.4 12.3 47.6 28.2 BBB 51.5 33.5 89.3 43.8 BB and below 190.5 95.4 32.4 17.2 Total by lowest agency rating $ 487.1 $ 314.0 $ 545.1 $ 346.7 Vintage 2003 and prior $ 238.6 $ 169.9 $ 270.2 $ 197.9 2004 82.7 61.5 91.1 53.7 2005 95.3 44.2 101.8 54.9 2006 16.7 7.8 18.8 10.3 2007 53.8 30.6 63.2 29.9 Total by vintage $ 487.1 $ 314.0 $ 545.1 $ 346.7 Fixed Maturity Securities Watch List. We monitor any decline in the credit quality of fixed maturity securities through the designation of "problem securities," "potential problem securities" and "restructured securities". We define problem securities in our fixed maturity portfolio as securities: (i) as to which principal and or interest payments are in default or where default is perceived to be imminent in the near term, or (ii) issued by a company that went into bankruptcy subsequent to the acquisition of such securities. We define potential problem securities in our fixed maturity portfolio as securities included on an internal "watch list" for which management has concerns as to the ability of the issuer to comply with the present debt payment terms and which may result in the security becoming a problem or being restructured. The decision whether to classify a performing fixed maturity security as a potential problem involves significant subjective judgments by our management as to the likely future industry conditions and developments with respect to the issuer. We define restructured securities in our fixed maturity portfolio as securities where a concession has been granted to the borrower related to the borrowers financial difficulties that would not have otherwise been considered. We determine that restructures should occur in those instances where greater economic value will be realized under the new terms than through liquidation or other disposition and may involve a change in contractual cash flows. If, at the time of restructure, the present value of the new future cash flows is less than the current cost of the asset being restructured, a realized capital loss is recorded in net income and a new cost basis is established. 69 Table of Contents The following table presents the total carrying amount of our fixed maturity securities portfolio, as well as its problem, potential problem and restructured fixed maturities for the periods indicated: December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 ($ in millions) Total fixed maturity securities (public and private) $ 44,485.9 $ 38,826.4 Problem fixed maturity securities (1) $ 237.3 $ 83.3 Potential problem fixed maturity securities 315.9 165.7 Restructured fixed maturity securities 3.1 Total problem, potential problem and restructured fixed maturity securities $ 553.2 $ 252.1 Total problem, potential problem and restructured fixed maturity securities as a percent of total fixed maturity securities 1.24 % .65 % (1)The problem fixed maturity securities carrying amount is net of other than temporary impairment losses. Fixed Maturity Securities Impairments. We have a process in place to identify securities that could potentially have a credit impairment that is other than temporary. This process involves monitoring market events that could impact issuers credit ratings, business climate, management changes, litigation and government actions and other similar factors. This process also involves monitoring late payments, pricing levels, downgrades by rating agencies, key financial ratios, financial statements, revenue forecasts and cash flow projections as indicators of credit issues. Each reporting period, a group of individuals including the Chief Investment Officer, our Portfolio Managers, members of our Workout Group and representatives from Investment Accounting review all securities to determine whether an other than temporary decline in value exists and whether losses should be recognized. The analysis focuses on each issuers ability to service its debts in a timely fashion. Formal documentation of the analysis and our decision is prepared and approved by management. We consider relevant facts and circumstances in evaluating whether a credit or interest rate related impairment of a security is other than temporary. Relevant facts and circumstances considered include: (1) the extent and length of time the fair value has been below cost; (2) the reasons for the decline in value; (3) the financial position and access to capital of the issuer, including the current and future impact of any specific events and (4) our intent to sell the security or whether it is more likely than not we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost which, in some cases, may extend to maturity. Prior to 2009, our ability and intent to hold fixed maturities for a period of time that allowed for a recovery in value was considered rather than our intent to sell those securities. To the extent we determine that a security is deemed to be other than temporarily impaired, an impairment loss is recognized. For additional details, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 5, Investments." When it is not our intent to sell a security with unrealized losses, it is not more likely than not that we would be required to sell the security before recovery of the amortized cost, which may be maturity, and we expect to recover the amortized cost basis, we would not consider the security to be other than temporarily impaired. Prior to 2009, we would not consider the security to be other than temporarily impaired when we had the intent to hold the security to maturity or until it recovered in value. However, we do sell bonds under certain circumstances, such as when we have evidence of a significant deterioration in the issuers creditworthiness, when a change in regulatory requirements modifies what constitutes a permissible investment or the maximum level of investments held or when there is an increase in capital requirements or a change in risk weights of debt securities. Sales generate both gains and losses. There are a number of significant risks and uncertainties inherent in the process of monitoring credit impairments and determining if an impairment is other than temporary. These risks and uncertainties include: (1) the risk that our assessment of an issuers ability to meet all of its contractual obligations will change based on changes in the credit characteristics of that issuer, (2) the risk that the economic outlook will be worse than expected or have more of an impact on the issuer than anticipated, (3) the risk that our investment professionals are making decisions based on fraudulent or misstated information in the financial statements provided by issuers and (4) the risk that new information obtained by us or changes in other facts and circumstances lead us to change our intent to not sell the security prior to recovery of its amortized cost. Any of these situations could result in a charge to net income in a future period. Prior to 2009, we considered the risk that new information obtained by us or changes in other facts and circumstances would lead us to change our intent to hold the security to maturity or until it recovered in value rather than changing our intent not to sell prior to recovery of the securitys amortized cost. The net realized loss relating to other than temporary credit impairments of fixed maturity securities was $428.5 million, $409.4 million and $262.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007, respectively. 70  Table of Contents Fixed Maturity Securities Available for Sale The following tables present our fixed maturity securities available for sale by industry category and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses, including other than temporary impairment losses reported in OCI, as of December 31, 2009 and 2008. December 31, 2009 Amortized cost Gross unrealized gains Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount (in millions) Finance Banking $ 4,288.5 $ 68.2 $ 480.4 $ 3,876.3 Finance Brokerage 428.6 11.0 6.4 433.2 Finance Finance Companies 265.2 9.0 18.7 255.5 Finance Financial Other 535.6 26.0 8.6 553.0 Finance Insurance 2,714.9 36.5 207.9 2,543.5 Finance REITS 1,327.1 14.6 80.0 1,261.7 Industrial Basic Industry 1,921.4 74.9 19.1 1,977.2 Industrial Capital Goods 2,364.0 99.1 33.0 2,430.1 Industrial Communications 2,761.6 174.3 21.8 2,914.1 Industrial Consumer Cyclical 1,597.0 69.4 32.0 1,634.4 Industrial Consumer Non Cyclical 3,149.6 172.0 27.4 3,294.2 Industrial Energy 1,933.3 108.3 19.2 2,022.4 Industrial Other 700.0 22.8 20.0 702.8 Industrial Technology 765.0 31.6 11.2 785.4 Industrial Transportation 934.9 41.7 18.4 958.2 Utility Electric 2,518.6 115.6 18.6 2,615.6 Utility Natural Gas 1,086.2 66.0 7.4 1,144.8 Utility Other 122.8 3.2 0.6 125.4 FDIC guaranteed 96.1 1.4 97.5 Government guaranteed 1,102.8 76.3 16.9 1,162.2 Total corporate securities 30,613.2 1,221.9 1,047.6 30,787.5 Residential pass through securities 3,019.1 86.0 3.8 3,101.3 Commercial mortgage backed securities 4,898.0 20.9 1,319.2 3,599.7 Residential collateralized mortgage obligations (1) 1,198.9 13.5 114.9 1,097.5 Asset backed securities Home equity (2) 487.1 173.1 314.0 Asset backed securities All other 1,308.1 21.1 15.5 1,313.7 Collateralized debt obligations Credit 197.2 1.5 67.0 131.7 Collateralized debt obligations CMBS 257.0 129.4 127.6 Collateralized debt obligations Loans 101.4 21.4 80.0 Collateralized debt obligations ABS (3) 51.9 0.3 21.9 30.3 Total mortgage backed and other asset backed securities 11,518.7 143.3 1,866.2 9,795.8 U.S. Government and agencies 550.1 9.1 0.5 558.7 States and political subdivisions 2,008.7 53.4 13.5 2,048.6 Non U.S. governments 421.1 42.4 1.1 462.4 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ 45,111.8 $ 1,470.1 $ 2,928.9 $ 43,653.0 (1)Includes exposure to Alt a mortgage loans with an amortized cost of $59.6 million, gross unrealized losses of $18.2 million, and a carrying amount of $41.4 million. The Alt a portfolio has a weighted average rating of BBB and 66% are 2005 and prior vintages. (2)This exposure is all related to sub prime mortgage loans. (3)Includes exposure to sub prime mortgage loans with an amortized cost of $27.4 million, gross unrealized gains of $0.3 million, gross unrealized losses of $17.9 million, and a carrying amount of $9.8 million. 71 Table of Contents December 31, 2008 Amortized cost Gross unrealized gains Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount (in millions) Finance Banking $ 4,248.7 $ 14.9 $ 1,095.1 $ 3,168.5 Finance Brokerage 785.4 0.9 128.5 657.8 Finance Finance Companies 418.6 0.1 84.7 334.0 Finance Financial Other 753.3 6.8 104.6 655.5 Finance Insurance 2,885.8 38.1 706.6 2,217.3 Finance REITS 1,412.5 430.6 981.9 Industrial Basic Industry 2,030.0 10.6 303.8 1,736.8 Industrial Capital Goods 2,322.3 15.1 316.8 2,020.6 Industrial Communications 2,943.7 32.3 297.0 2,679.0 Industrial Consumer Cyclical 2,023.8 18.7 338.7 1,703.8 Industrial Consumer Non Cyclical 3,184.7 31.2 298.5 2,917.4 Industrial Energy 1,958.0 9.6 224.5 1,743.1 Industrial Other 952.8 2.4 117.6 837.6 Industrial Technology 876.7 2.2 115.3 763.6 Industrial Transportation 992.2 10.3 124.5 878.0 Utility Electric 2,473.4 22.8 199.2 2,297.0 Utility Natural Gas 1,142.0 4.9 110.7 1,036.2 Utility Other 156.7 2.3 14.3 144.7 Government guaranteed 799.5 75.0 57.0 817.5 Total corporate securities 32,360.1 298.2 5,068.0 27,590.3 Residential pass through securities 1,627.5 50.5 0.5 1,677.5 Commercial mortgage backed securities 5,682.7 3.7 2,081.9 3,604.5 Residential collateralized mortgage obligations (1) 950.8 6.4 188.6 768.6 Asset backed securities Home equity (2) 545.1 0.1 198.5 346.7 Asset backed securities All other 816.1 16.8 137.2 695.7 Collateralized debt obligations Credit 202.8 123.6 79.2 Collateralized debt obligations CMBS 302.2 173.3 128.9 Collateralized debt obligations Loans 91.4 54.4 37.0 Collateralized debt obligations ABS (3) 100.0 0.2 53.5 46.7 Total mortgage backed and other asset backed securities 10,318.6 77.7 3,011.5 7,384.8 U.S. Government and agencies 548.4 46.9 0.1 595.2 States and political subdivisions 2,113.8 32.6 120.9 2,025.5 Non U.S. governments 462.1 31.5 15.1 478.5 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ 45,803.0 $ 486.9 $ 8,215.6 $ 38,074.3 (1)Includes exposure to Alt a mortgage loans with an amortized cost of $67.3 million, gross unrealized losses of $17.3 million and a carrying amount of $50.0 million. The Alt a portfolio has a weighted average rating of AA and 66% are 2005 and prior vintages. (2)This exposure is all related to sub prime mortgage loans. (3)Includes exposure to sub prime mortgage loans with an amortized cost of $66.4 million, gross unrealized gains of $0.1 million, gross unrealized losses of $46.6 million and a carrying amount of $19.9 million. Of the $2,928.9 million in gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2009, there were $5.5 million in losses attributed to securities scheduled to mature in one year or less, $145.3 million attributed to securities scheduled to mature between one to five years, $189.2 million attributed to securities scheduled to mature between five to ten years, $722.7 million attributed to securities scheduled to mature after ten years and $1,866.2 million related to mortgage backed and other ABS that are not classified by maturity year. Of the $6,269.9 million decrease in net unrealized losses for the year ended December 31, 2009, an approximate $1.9 billion net unrealized loss can be attributed to an approximate 110 basis points increase in interest rates and is more than offset by net unrealized gains related to other market factors. Of the $7,781.8 million increase in net unrealized losses for the year ended December 31, 2008, an approximate $3.1 billion net unrealized gain can be attributed to an approximate 210 basis points decrease in interest rates and is more than offset by net unrealized losses related to other market factors. Credit Disruption. The credit disruption in the market that began in the last half of 2007 from concerns in the sub prime markets, and continued into 2008 and 2009 with concerns in the leveraged finance markets has led to reduced liquidity and wider credit spreads. These credit concerns led to widespread forced selling into a very thinly traded market, which further strained market liquidity. This market disruption lowered valuations and, as a result, we have seen an increase in unrealized losses in our securities portfolio. The losses were more pronounced in the Finance sectors and in structured products such as collateralized debt obligations, ABS and CMBS. The decline in value in large part reflects the illiquid markets. During the second quarter of 2009 and continuing through the end of the year, a narrowing of credit spreads and improvement in liquidity resulted in a decrease in the unrealized losses in our securities portfolio relative to year end 2008. Future changes in the fair value of these securities will be dependent on continued improvement in 72 Table of Contents market liquidity and changes in general market conditions, including interest rates and credit spread movements. We concluded the prices of the securities in our securities portfolio were temporarily depressed due to (1) the issuers continued satisfaction of the securities obligations in accordance with their contractual terms, (2) the expectation the issuers will continue to satisfy their obligations given the evaluation of the fundamentals of the issuers financial condition and other objective evidence and (3) management not having the intent to sell these securities and as it is not more likely than not that we would be required to sell these securities before the recovery of the amortized cost. Fixed Maturity Available for Sale Securities Unrealized Losses. We believe that our long term fixed maturity securities portfolio is well diversified among industry types and between publicly traded and privately placed securities. Each year, we direct the majority of our net cash inflows into investment grade fixed maturity securities. The net cash inflows into investment grade fixed maturity securities are less than prior years due to us investing in more liquid investments. Our current policy is to limit the percentage of cash flow invested in below investment grade assets to 10% of cash flow. As of December 31, 2009, we had invested 2.4% of new cash flow for the year in below investment grade assets. While Principal Lifes general account investment returns have improved due to the below investment grade asset class, we manage its growth strategically by limiting it to no more than 10% of the total fixed maturity securities portfolios. We invest in privately placed fixed maturity securities to enhance the overall value of the portfolio, increase diversification and obtain higher yields than are possible with comparable quality public market securities. Generally, private placements provide broader access to management information, strengthened negotiated protective covenants, call protection features and, where applicable, a higher level of collateral. They are, however, generally not freely tradable because of restrictions imposed by federal and state securities laws and illiquid trading markets. The following table presents our fixed maturity securities available for sale by investment grade and below investment grade and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses, including other than temporary impairment losses reported in OCI, for the time periods indicated. December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Amortized cost Gross unrealized gains Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Amortized cost Gross unrealized gains Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount (in millions) Investment grade: Public $ 28,439.8 $ 990.9 $ 1,015.0 $ 28,415.7 $ 28,981.9 $ 308.3 $ 4,253.1 $ 25,037.1 Private 12,159.7 423.3 743.2 11,839.8 13,916.2 175.9 3,089.2 11,002.9 Below investment grade: Public 2,233.8 14.4 468.5 1,779.7 1,319.4 1.6 385.5 935.5 Private 2,278.5 41.5 702.2 1,617.8 1,585.5 1.1 487.8 1,098.8 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ 45,111.8 $ 1,470.1 $ 2,928.9 $ 43,653.0 $ 45,803.0 $ 486.9 $ 8,215.6 $ 38,074.3 The following tables present the carrying amount and the gross unrealized losses, including other than temporary impairment losses reported in OCI, on investment grade fixed maturity securities available for sale by aging category for the time periods indicated. December 31, 2009 Public Private Total Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses (in millions) Three months or less $ 2,367.4 $ 34.5 $ 927.7 $ 21.2 $ 3,295.1 $ 55.7 Greater than three to six months 139.0 9.7 39.2 1.0 178.2 10.7 Greater than six to nine months 24.0 0.2 22.3 5.1 46.3 5.3 Greater than nine to twelve months 75.6 14.9 50.4 6.9 126.0 21.8 Greater than twelve to twenty four months 2,169.7 361.2 1,596.0 207.6 3,765.7 568.8 Greater than twenty four to thirty six months 1,846.6 415.0 1,650.2 346.2 3,496.8 761.2 Greater than thirty six months 1,256.7 179.5 659.4 155.2 1,916.1 334.7 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ 7,879.0 $ 1,015.0 $ 4,945.2 $ 743.2 $ 12,824.2 $ 1,758.2 73 Table of Contents December 31, 2008 Public Private Total Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses (in millions) Three months or less $ 3,086.0 $ 194.4 $ 1,188.1 $ 99.5 $ 4,274.1 $ 293.9 Greater than three to six months 4,213.7 467.9 1,673.6 236.4 5,887.3 704.3 Greater than six to nine months 3,014.0 620.7 1,566.6 290.6 4,580.6 911.3 Greater than nine to twelve months 2,321.0 743.0 1,259.7 460.1 3,580.7 1,203.1 Greater than twelve to twenty four months 3,042.0 1,507.5 2,217.1 1,519.7 5,259.1 3,027.2 Greater than twenty four to thirty six months 1,045.2 296.1 312.5 217.1 1,357.7 513.2 Greater than thirty six months 1,363.8 423.5 698.2 265.8 2,062.0 689.3 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ 18,085.7 $ 4,253.1 $ 8,915.8 $ 3,089.2 $ 27,001.5 $ 7,342.3 The following tables present the carrying amount and the gross unrealized losses, including other than temporary impairment losses reported in OCI, on below investment grade fixed maturity securities available for sale by aging category for the time periods indicated. December 31, 2009 Public Private Total Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses (in millions) Three months or less $ 55.7 $ 3.3 $ 52.8 $ 1.2 $ 108.5 $ 4.5 Greater than three to six months 3.4 14.8 18.2 Greater than six to nine months 12.7 0.2 0.1 0.1 12.8 0.3 Greater than nine to twelve months 32.8 11.2 1.0 1.8 33.8 13.0 Greater than twelve to twenty four months 441.3 112.2 365.6 186.7 806.9 298.9 Greater than twenty four to thirty six months 609.0 314.8 403.5 435.8 1,012.5 750.6 Greater than thirty six months 113.8 26.8 84.6 76.6 198.4 103.4 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ 1,268.7 $ 468.5 $ 922.4 $ 702.2 $ 2,191.1 $ 1,170.7 December 31, 2008 Public Private Total Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses (in millions) Three months or less $ 133.1 $ 56.5 $ 114.6 $ 32.1 $ 247.7 $ 88.6 Greater than three to six months 88.8 12.7 297.1 74.3 385.9 87.0 Greater than six to nine months 102.5 42.9 129.1 46.5 231.6 89.4 Greater than nine to twelve months 163.0 65.9 44.5 43.7 207.5 109.6 Greater than twelve to twenty four months 242.0 151.7 351.8 239.5 593.8 391.2 Greater than twenty four to thirty six months 41.2 26.1 13.3 21.4 54.5 47.5 Greater than thirty six months 100.3 29.7 100.9 30.3 201.2 60.0 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ 870.9 $ 385.5 $ 1,051.3 $ 487.8 $ 1,922.2 $ 873.3 The following tables present the carrying amount and the gross unrealized losses, including other than temporary impairment losses reported in OCI, on fixed maturity securities available for sale where the estimated fair value has declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more as the time periods indicate. December 31, 2009 Problem, potential problem, and restructured All other fixed maturity securities Total Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses (in millions) Three months or less $ 6.1 $ 2.0 $ 243.8 $ 77.4 $ 249.9 $ 79.4 Greater than three to six months 31.8 9.2 31.8 9.2 Greater than six to nine months 0.1 0.1 46.0 22.5 46.1 22.6 Greater than nine to twelve months 28.8 24.8 49.9 25.4 78.7 50.2 Greater than twelve months 276.8 438.3 1,812.8 1,578.5 2,089.6 2,016.8 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ 311.8 $ 465.2 $ 2,184.3 $ 1,713.0 $ 2,496.1 $ 2,178.2 74  Table of Contents December 31, 2008 Problem, potential problem, and restructured All other fixed maturity securities Total Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses (in millions) Three months or less $ 53.7 $ 70.2 $ 6,433.5 $ 3,133.6 $ 6,487.2 $ 3,203.8 Greater than three to six months 27.5 28.5 1,374.2 1,314.6 1,401.7 1,343.1 Greater than six to nine months 6.1 14.5 279.3 415.5 285.4 430.0 Greater than nine to twelve months 11.5 10.3 486.8 904.1 498.3 914.4 Greater than twelve months 3.5 6.5 111.3 435.2 114.8 441.7 Total fixed maturity securities, available for sale $ 102.3 $ 130.0 $ 8,685.1 $ 6,203.0 $ 8,787.4 $ 6,333.0 Mortgage Loans Mortgage loans consist primarily of commercial mortgage loans on real estate. The carrying amount of our commercial mortgage loan portfolio was $10,121.8 million and $11,279.3 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Commercial mortgage loans on real estate are generally reported at cost adjusted for amortization of premiums and accrual of discounts, computed using the interest method and net of valuation allowances. Commercial mortgage loans held for sale are carried at the lower of cost or fair value and reported as mortgage loans in the statements of financial position. Commercial mortgage loans play an important role in our investment strategy by: providing strong risk adjusted relative value in comparison to other investment alternatives; enhancing total returns and providing strategic portfolio diversification. As a result, we have focused on constructing a solid, high quality portfolio of mortgages. Our portfolio is generally comprised of mortgages originated with conservative loan to value ratios, high debt service coverages and general purpose property types with a strong credit tenancy. Our commercial mortgage loan portfolio consists of primarily non recourse, fixed rate mortgages on fully or near fully leased properties. The mortgage portfolio is comprised primarily of credit oriented retail properties, manufacturing office properties and general purpose industrial properties. In addition, we have a $174.4 million and a $261.3 million short term high yield portfolio of mortgages held within the Global Asset Management segment as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. For geographic and property type distribution of our commercial mortgage loans, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 5, Investments." Credit extensions in the state of California accounted for 20% of our commercial mortgage loan portfolio for both December 31, 2009 and 2008. We are, therefore, exposed to potential losses resulting from the risk of catastrophes, such as earthquakes, that may affect the region. Like other lenders, we generally do not require earthquake insurance for properties on which we make commercial mortgage loans. With respect to California properties, however, we obtain an engineering report specific to each property. The report assesses the buildings design specifications, whether it has been upgraded to meet seismic building codes and the maximum loss that is likely to result from a variety of different seismic events. We also obtain a report that assesses, by building and geographic fault lines, the amount of loss our commercial mortgage loan portfolio might suffer under a variety of seismic events. Our commercial loan portfolio is highly diversified by borrower. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, 31% and 30%, respectively, of the commercial mortgage loan portfolio was comprised of mortgage loans with principal balances of less than $10.0 million. The total number of commercial mortgage loans outstanding was 1,101 and 1,223 as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The average loan size of our commercial mortgage portfolio was $9.3 million as of both December 31, 2009 and 2008. Commercial Mortgage Loan Credit Monitoring. We actively monitor and manage our commercial mortgage loan portfolio. Substantially all loans within the portfolio are analyzed regularly and are internally rated, based on a proprietary risk rating cash flow model, in order to monitor the financial quality of these assets. Based on ongoing monitoring, mortgage loans with a likelihood of becoming delinquent are identified and placed on an internal "watch list". Among the criteria that would indicate a potential problem are: imbalances in ratios of loan to value or contract rents to debt service, major tenant vacancies or bankruptcies, borrower sponsorship problems, late payments, delinquent taxes and loan relief/restructuring requests. We review our mortgage loan portfolio and analyze the need for a valuation allowance for any loan that is delinquent for 60 days or more, in process of foreclosure, restructured, on the "watch list" or that currently has a valuation allowance. We categorize loans that are 60 days or more delinquent, loans in process of foreclosure and loans to borrowers in bankruptcy that are delinquent as "problem" loans. Valuation allowances have been recognized on problem 75 Table of Contents loans. Potential problem loans are loans placed on an internal "watch list" for which management has concerns as to the ability of the borrower to comply with the present loan payment terms and that may result in the loan becoming a problem or being restructured. The decision whether to classify a performing loan as a potential problem involves significant subjective judgments by management as to the likely future economic conditions and developments with respect to the borrower. We categorize loans for which the original Note Rate or Pay Rate of the mortgages have been reduced as "restructured" loans. We also consider matured loans that are refinanced at below market rates as restructured. The increase in the level of problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages reflects the significant impact of the U.S. recession on commercial real estate. The job losses and record foreclosures in housing have negatively impacted property vacancy rates and rental rates. The areas significantly impacted by the recession (South Atlantic, Pacific and Mountain regions) account for the majority of the problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages as of December 31, 2009. Apartments and retail properties in those three regions, which account for nearly half of the problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages as of December 31, 2009, have been hit the hardest by falling rents and occupancies. The following table presents the carrying amounts of problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages relative to the carrying amount of all commercial mortgages for the periods indicated: December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 ($ in millions) Total commercial mortgages $ 10,121.8 $ 11,279.3 Problem commercial mortgages $ 96.5 $ 69.0 Potential problem commercial mortgages 521.0 110.0 Restructured commercial mortgages 10.3 5.5 Total problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages $ 627.8 $ 184.5 Total problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages as a percent of total commercial mortgages 6.20 % 1.64 % Commercial Mortgage Loan Valuation Allowance. The valuation allowance for commercial mortgage loans includes a loan specific allowance for impaired loans and a provision for losses based on past loss experience and current market factors believed to be adequate to absorb estimated probable credit losses. The changes in the valuation allowance are reported in net income on our consolidated statements of operations. Commercial mortgage loans on real estate are considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to contractual terms of the loan agreement. When we determine that a loan is impaired, a loss is recognized for the difference between the carrying amount of the mortgage loan and the estimated value. Estimated value is based on either the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at the loans effective interest rate, the loans observable market price or the fair value of the collateral. When a valuation allowance is established, subsequent recoveries are credited to the valuation allowance and subsequent losses may be charged to the valuation allowance. The determination of the calculation and the adequacy of the mortgage loan loss provision based on past experience and current portfolio statistics are subjective. Our periodic evaluation and assessment of the adequacy of the provision for losses and the need for mortgage impairments is based on known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrowers ability to repay, the estimated value of the underlying collateral, a loans internal risk rating, composition of the loan portfolio, real estate market fundamentals, current economic conditions, loss experience and other relevant factors. Our financial position is sensitive to changes in estimated cash flows from mortgages, the value of the collateral and changes in the economic environment in general. The valuation allowance for PFG increased $75.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009, and increased $14.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The increase in the level of valuation allowance is related to the same market factors as those causing the increase in the level of problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages. Those areas and property types most affected by the recession (apartments and retail in the South Atlantic, Mountain and Pacific regions) account for the highest levels of reserves in the Principal Life general account portfolio. The following table represents our commercial mortgage valuation allowance for the periods indicated: December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 ($ in millions) Balance, beginning of period $ 57.0 $ 42.8 Provision 126.9 42.9 Releases (51.4 ) (28.7 ) Balance, end of period $ 132.5 $ 57.0 Valuation allowance as % of carrying value before reserves 1.29 % .50 % 76 Table of Contents Real Estate Real estate consists primarily of commercial equity real estate. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the carrying amount of our equity real estate investment was $1,022.2 million, or 2%, and $915.2 million, or 1%, of U.S. invested assets, respectively. Our commercial equity real estate is held in the form of wholly owned real estate, real estate acquired upon foreclosure of commercial mortgage loans and majority owned interests in real estate joint ventures. Equity real estate is categorized as either "real estate held for investment" or "real estate held for sale." Real estate held for investment totaled $998.4 million and $779.8 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The carrying value of real estate held for investment is generally adjusted for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. Such impairment adjustments are recorded as net realized losses and, accordingly, are reflected in our consolidated results of operations. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, there were no such impairment adjustments. The carrying amount of real estate held for sale as of December 31, 2009, was $23.8 million. There were no valuation allowances as of December 31, 2009. The carrying amount of real estate held for sale as of December 31, 2008, was $135.4 million, net of valuation allowance of $3.5 million. Once we identify a real estate property to be sold and commence a plan for marketing the property, we classify the property as held for sale. We establish a valuation allowance subject to periodic revisions, if necessary, to adjust the carrying value of the property to reflect the lower of its current carrying value or the fair value, less associated selling costs. We use research, both internal and external, to recommend appropriate product and geographic allocations and changes to the equity real estate portfolio. We monitor product, geographic and industry diversification separately and together to determine the most appropriate mix. Equity real estate is distributed across geographic regions of the country with larger concentrations in the South Atlantic and West South Central regions of the United States as of December 31, 2009. By property type, there is a concentration in office and industrial site buildings that represented approximately 57% of the equity real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2009. Other Investments Our other investments totaled $1,480.2 million as of December 31, 2009, compared to $2,162.4 million as of December 31, 2008. Derivative assets accounted for $1,212.7 million and $1,873.2 million in other investments as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The remaining invested assets include equity method investments, which include properties owned jointly with venture partners and operated by the partners. International Investment Operations Of our invested assets, $4.4 billion were held by our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment as of December 31, 2009. Our international investment operations consist of the investments of Principal International. The assets are managed by either our Global Asset Management segment or by the local Principal International affiliate. Due to the regulatory constraints in each country, each company maintains its own investment policies. As shown in the following table, the major categories of international invested assets as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, were fixed maturity securities, other investments and residential mortgage loans. The following table excludes invested assets of the separate accounts. December 31, 2009 December 31, 2008 Carrying amount % of total Carrying amount % of total ($ in millions) Fixed maturity securities Public $ 2,767.1 62 % $ 2,134.2 64 % Equity securities 46.7 1 40.8 1 Mortgage loans Residential 595.1 14 479.9 14 Real estate 12.4 4.2 Policy loans 21.2 1 15.0 1 Other investments 985.1 22 654.2 20 Total invested assets 4,427.6 100 % 3,328.3 100 % Cash and cash equivalents 48.1 71.0 Total invested assets and cash $ 4,475.7 $ 3,399.3 Investments in equity method subsidiaries and direct financing leases accounted for $578.7 million and $373.3 million, respectively, of other investments as of December 31, 2009. Investments in equity method subsidiaries and direct financing leases accounted for $377.2 million and $265.4 million, respectively, of other investments as of December 31, 2008. The remaining other investments as of both December 31, 2009 and 2008, are primarily related to derivative assets and other short term investments. 77 Table of Contents  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Market Risk Exposures and Risk Management Market risk is the risk that we will incur losses due to adverse fluctuations in market rates and prices. Our primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates, although we also have exposures to changes in equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. We enter into market sensitive instruments primarily for purposes other than trading. The active management of market risk is an integral part of our operations. We manage our overall market risk exposure within established risk tolerance ranges by using the following approaches: rebalance our existing asset or liability portfolios; control the risk structure of newly acquired assets and liabilities or use derivative instruments to modify the market risk characteristics of existing assets or liabilities or assets expected to be purchased. Interest Rate Risk Interest rate risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse changes in interest rates. One source of interest rate risk is the inherent difficulty in obtaining assets that mature or have their rate reset at the exact same time as the liabilities they support. Assets may have to be reinvested or sold in the future to meet the liability cash flows in unknown interest rate environments. Secondly, there may be timing differences between when new liabilities are priced and when assets are purchased or procured that can cause fluctuations in profitability if interest rates move materially in the interim. A third source of interest rate risk is the prepayment options embedded within asset and liability contracts that can alter the cash flow profiles from what was originally expected. One of the measures we use to quantify our exposure to interest rate risk is duration. To calculate duration, we project asset and liability cash flows. These cash flows are discounted to a net present value basis using a spot yield curve, which is a blend of the spot yield curves for each of the asset types in the portfolio. Duration is calculated by re calculating these cash flows, re determining the net present value based upon an alternative level of interest rates, and determining the percentage change in fair value. We manage interest rate risks in a number of ways. Differences in durations between assets and liabilities are measured and kept within acceptable tolerances. Derivatives are also commonly used to mitigate interest rate risk due to cash flow mismatches and timing differences. Prepayment risk is controlled by limiting our exposure to investments that are prepayable without penalty prior to maturity at the option of the issuer. We also require additional yield on these investments to compensate for the risk the issuer will exercise such option. Prepayment risk is also controlled by limiting the sales of liabilities with features such as puts or other options that can be exercised against the company at inopportune times. For example, approximately $14.9 billion, or 98%, of our institutional GICs and funding agreements cannot be redeemed by contractholders prior to maturity. We are also exposed to interest rate risk based upon the discount rate assumption used for purposes of valuing our pension and other post retirement benefit obligations. For further discussion of interest rate risk associated with these obligations, see Item 7. "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Benefit Plans." Duration Managed. Our exposure to interest rate risk stems largely from our substantial holdings of guaranteed fixed rate liabilities in our U.S. Asset Accumulation segment. We actively manage the duration of assets and liabilities in these products by minimizing the difference between the two. We have established a maximum tolerance for this difference and seek to stay within this tolerance. As of December 31, 2009, the difference between the asset and liability durations on our primary duration managed portfolio was 0.12, as compared to 0.17 as of December 31, 2008. This duration gap indicates that, as of December 31, 2009, the sensitivity of the fair value of our assets to interest rate movements is less than that of the fair value of our liabilities. Our goal is to minimize the duration gap. Currently, our guidelines indicate that total duration gaps between the asset and liability portfolios should be within +/ 0.25. The value of the assets in this portfolio was $28,377.1 million and $29,440.1 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Duration Monitored. For products such as whole life insurance and term life insurance that are less sensitive to interest rate risk, and for other products such as individual fixed deferred annuities, we manage interest rate risk based on a modeling process that considers the target average life, maturities, crediting rates and assumptions of policyholder behavior. As of December 31, 2009, the weighted average difference between the asset and liability durations on these portfolios was 0.16, as compared to +0.09 as of December 31, 2008. This duration gap indicates that, as of December 31, 2009, the sensitivity of the fair value of our assets to interest rate movements is less than that of the fair value of our liabilities. We attempt to monitor this duration gap consistent with our overall risk/reward tolerances. The value of the assets in these portfolios was $22,497.1 million and $18,017.3 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. 78  Table of Contents Non Duration Managed. We also have a block of participating general account pension business that passes most of the actual investment performance of the assets to the customer. The investment strategy of this block is to maximize investment return to the customer on a "best efforts" basis, and there is little or no attempt to manage the duration of this portfolio since there is little or no interest rate risk. The value of the assets in these portfolios was $5,745.5 million and $4,866.0 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Using the assumptions and data in effect as of December 31, 2009, we estimate that a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase in interest rates increases the net fair value of our portfolio by approximately $71.1 million, compared with an estimated $34.0 million increase as of December 31, 2008. The following table details the estimated changes by risk management strategy. The table also gives the weighted average duration of the asset portfolio for each category, and the net duration gap (i.e., the weighted average difference between the asset and liability durations). December 31, 2009 Risk Management Strategy Value of total assets Duration of assets Net duration gap Net fair value change (in millions) (in millions) Primary duration managed $ 28,377.1 3.40 (0.12 ) $ 34.1 Duration monitored 22,497.1 4.13 (0.16 ) 37.0 Non duration managed 5,745.5 3.83 N/A N/A Total $ 56,619.7 $ 71.1 Our selection of a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase or decrease in interest rates is a hypothetical rate scenario we use to demonstrate potential risk. While a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase does not represent our view of future market changes, it is a near term reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. While these fair value measurements provide a representation of interest rate sensitivity, they are based on our portfolio exposures at a point in time and may not be representative of future market results. These exposures will change as a result of ongoing portfolio transactions in response to new business, managements assessment of changing market conditions and available investment opportunities. See Item 7. "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Valuation of Invested Assets" for additional discussion of the impact interest rate increases would have on fixed maturities, available for sale. Debt Issued and Outstanding. The primary risk for our long term borrowings is interest rate risk at the time of maturity or early redemption, when we may be required to refinance these obligations. We continue to monitor the interest rate environment and to evaluate refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. The aggregate fair value of long term debt, excluding accrued interest, was $1,608.4 million and $1,096.1 million, as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, a 100 basis point immediate, parallel decrease in interest rates would increase the fair value of debt by approximately $132.6 million, as compared to an estimated $59.4 million increase as of December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2009, a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase in interest rates would decrease the fair value of debt by approximately $114.3 million, as compared to an estimated $52.9 million decrease as of December 31, 2008. Debt is not recorded at fair value on the consolidated statements of financial position. Our selection of a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase or decrease in interest rates is a hypothetical rate scenario we use to demonstrate potential risk. While a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase or decrease does not represent our view of future market changes, it is a near term reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. While these fair value measurements provide a representation of interest rate sensitivity, they are based on our long term debt obligations at a point in time and may not be representative of future obligations. These exposures will change as a result of ongoing changes to our outstanding long term debt obligations. For additional information regarding our debt, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 10, Debt." Use of Derivatives to Manage Interest Rate Risk. We use or have previously used various derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, including interest rate swaps, swaptions, futures, treasury lock agreements and options. We use interest rate swaps and futures contracts to hedge changes in interest rates subsequent to the issuance of an insurance liability, such as a guaranteed investment contract, but prior to the purchase of a supporting asset, or during periods of holding assets in anticipation of near term liability sales. We use interest rate swaps primarily to more closely match the interest rate characteristics of assets and liabilities. They can be used to change the sensitivity to the interest rate of specific assets and liabilities as well as an entire portfolio. Occasionally, we have sold a callable investment type agreement and used written interest rate swaptions to transform the callable liability into a fixed term liability. Derivatives in our portfolio with interest rate sensitivity were in a net liability position with a fair value of $130.7 million and $384.7 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The following table shows the interest 79 Table of Contents rate sensitivity of our derivatives measured in terms of fair value. These exposures will change as a result of ongoing portfolio and risk management activities. December 31, 2009 Fair value (no accrued interest) of net derivative assets (liabilities) Notional amount Weighted average term (years) (1) 100 basis point change No change +100 basis point change ($ in millions) Interest rate swaps $ 19,588.6 5.83 $ (200.0 ) $ (130.9 ) $ (75.2 ) Futures (2) 43.3 0.23 (2.5 ) 0.2 2.9 Total $ 19,631.9 $ (202.5 ) $ (130.7 ) $ (72.3 ) (1)Based on maturity date. (2)We use U.S. Treasury futures to manage our over/under commitment position, and our position in these contracts changes daily. Our selection of a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase or decrease in interest rates is a hypothetical rate scenario we use to determine potential risk. While a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase or decrease does not represent our view of future market changes, it is a near term reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. While these fair value measurements provide a representation of interest rate sensitivity, they are based on our derivative portfolio exposures at a point in time and may not be representative of future market results. These exposures will change as a result of ongoing derivative transactions. Foreign Currency Risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. This risk arises from foreign currency denominated funding agreements issued to nonqualified institutional investors in the international market, foreign currency denominated fixed maturity securities and demand deposits purchased and our international operations. We estimate that as of December 31, 2009, a 10% immediate unfavorable change in each of the foreign currency exchange rates to which we are exposed would result in no material change to the net fair value of our foreign currency denominated instruments identified above because we effectively hedge foreign currency denominated instruments to minimize exchange rate impacts, which is consistent with our estimate as of December 31, 2008. However, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates do affect the translation of operating earnings and equity of our international operations into our consolidated financial statements. For our International Asset Management and Accumulation segment, we estimate that a 10% immediate unfavorable change in each of the foreign currency exchange rates to which we were exposed would have resulted in a $135.7 million, or 10%, reduction in the total equity excluding noncontrolling interests of our international operations as of December 31, 2009, as compared to an estimated $100.3 million, or 10%, reduction as of December 31, 2008. We estimate that a 10% unfavorable change in the average foreign currency exchange rates to which we were exposed through our international operations would have resulted in a $12.8 million, or 11%, reduction in the operating earnings of our international operations for the year ended December 31, 2009, as compared to an estimated $12.7 million, or 10%, reduction for the year ended December 31, 2008. The selection of a 10% immediate unfavorable change in all currency exchange rates should not be construed as a prediction by us of future market events, but rather as an illustration of the potential impact of such an event. These exposures will change as a result of a change in the size and mix of our foreign operations. Use of Derivatives to Manage Foreign Currency Risk. The foreign currency risk on funding agreements and fixed maturity securities is mitigated by using currency swaps that swap the foreign currency interest and principal payments to our functional currency. The notional amount of our currency swap agreements associated with foreign denominated liabilities was $3,386.0 million and $4,269.2 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The notional amount of our currency swap agreements associated with foreign denominated fixed maturity securities was $1,867.2 million and $2,005.4 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. With regard to our international operations, we attempt to do as much of our business as possible in the functional currency of the country of operation. At times, however, we are unable to do so, and in these cases, we use foreign exchange derivatives to economically hedge the resulting risks. Our operations in Chile had currency swaps with a notional amount of $31.2 million and $24.1 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which were used to swap cash flows on U.S. dollar denominated bonds to a local currency. Chile also utilized currency forwards with a notional amount of $91.5 million and $52.1 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, in order to mitigate currency exposure related to bonds denominated in currencies other than Chilean pesos. Additionally, from time to time we take measures to hedge our net equity investments in our foreign subsidiaries from currency risks. There were no outstanding net equity investment hedges in 2009 or 2008. 80 Table of Contents Equity Risk Equity risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse fluctuations in a particular common stock. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, the fair value of our equity securities was $435.5 million and $400.7 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2009, a 10% decline in the value of the equity securities would result in an unrealized loss of $43.6 million, as compared to an estimated unrealized loss of $40.1 million as of December 31, 2008. We are also exposed to the risk that asset based fees decrease as a result of declines in assets under management due to change in investment prices and the risk that asset management fees calculated by reference to performance could be lower. We estimate that an immediate 10% decline in the Standard & Poors index, followed by a 2% per quarter increase would reduce our annual operating earnings by approximately four to six percent. The risk of decreased asset based and asset management fees could also impact our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition and other costs. For further discussion, see Item 7. "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Other Actuarial Balances." The selection of a 10% unfavorable change in the equity markets should not be construed as a prediction by us of future market events, but rather as an illustration of the potential impact of such an event. Our exposure will change as a result of changes in our mix of business. We also have equity risk associated with (1) fixed deferred annuity contracts that credit interest to customers based on changes in an external equity index; (2) variable annuity contracts that have a GMWB rider that allows the customer to receive at least the principal deposit back through withdrawals of a specified annual amount, even if the account value is reduced to zero; (3) variable annuity contacts that have a GMDB that allows the death benefit to be paid, even if the account value has fallen below the GMDB amount; (4) investment type contracts in which the return is tied to an external equity index and (5) investment type contracts in which the return is subject to minimum contractual guarantees. We are also subject to equity risk based upon the assets that support our benefit plans. For further discussion of equity risk associated with these plans, see Item 7. "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Benefit Plans." Use of Derivatives to Manage Equity Risk. We economically hedge the fixed deferred annuity product by purchasing options that match the products profile. We economically hedge the GMWB exposure using futures, options and interest rate swaps. We economically hedge the investment contract exposure to an external equity index using equity call options. The fair value of both the GMWB embedded derivative and associated hedging instruments are sensitive to financial market conditions and the variance related to the change in fair value of these items for a given period is largely dependent on market conditions at the end of the period. For the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, we recognized a $0.7 million pre tax loss and a $37.4 million pre tax loss, respectively, on the change in fair value of the GMWB embedded derivative and a $191.7 million pre tax loss and a $171.5 million pre tax gain, respectively, on the derivatives used to economically hedge our GMWB market risk, which includes equity risk. The difference between the gain/loss on the GMWB embedded derivative and the related derivatives used to hedge the embedded derivative primarily relates to the changes in the spread reflecting our own creditworthiness, which is incorporated in the discount rates used to value the GMWB embedded derivative. The implementation of fair value measurement accounting guidance in 2008 resulted in the incorporation of a spread reflecting our own creditworthiness and additional risk margins in the valuation of the GMWB embedded derivative. Throughout the latter part of 2008 and continuing into the first quarter of 2009, the spread reflecting our own credit risk increased, which drove a significant increase in the discount rates applied, thereby reducing the fair value of the embedded derivative liability. During the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009, the spread reflecting our own credit risk decreased, thereby increasing the fair value of the embedded derivative liability to somewhat offset the decrease in fair value of the embedded derivative liability that occurred in late 2008 and the first quarter of 2009. In 2009, this resulted in the income statement impact from the changes in fair value of the embedded derivative being different than the income statement impact from the changes in fair value of the associated hedging instruments. Additionally, reflecting the actual and expected changes in value of the GMWB embedded derivative and the associated hedging instruments in our gross profits resulted in a $78.6 million pre tax decrease and a $45.4 million pre tax increase in DPAC amortization for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Credit Risk Credit risk relates to the uncertainty associated with the continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments of principal and interest. Our ability to manage credit risk is essential to our business and our profitability. See Item 7. "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Investments" for additional information about credit risk. Use of Derivatives to Diversify or Hedge Credit Risk. We purchase credit default swaps to hedge credit exposures in our investment portfolio. We sell credit default swaps to offer credit protection to investors. When selling credit protection, if there is an event of default by the referenced name, we are obligated to pay the counterparty the referenced amount of the contract and receive in return the referenced security. For further information on credit derivatives sold, 81 Table of Contents see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 6, Derivative Financial Instruments" under the caption, "Credit Derivatives Sold." We economically hedged credit exposure in our portfolio by purchasing credit default swaps with a notional amount of $448.5 million and $549.0 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. We had credit exposure through credit default swaps with a notional amount of $15.0 million and $200.0 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, by investing in various tranches of synthetic collateralized debt obligations. In addition, we sold credit default swaps creating replicated assets with a notional amount of $1,122.9 million and $1,199.9 million as of December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Derivative Counterparty Risk In conjunction with our use of derivatives, we are exposed to counterparty risk, or the risk that the counterparty fails to perform the terms of the derivative contract. We actively manage this risk by: obtaining approval of all new counterparties by the Investment Committee; establishing exposure limits that take into account non derivative exposure we have with the counterparty as well as derivative exposure; performing similar credit analysis prior to approval on each derivatives counterparty that we do when lending money on a long term basis; diversifying our risk across numerous approved counterparties; limiting exposure to A+ credit or better; conducting stress test analysis to determine the maximum exposure created during the life of a prospective transaction; implementing credit support annex (collateral) agreements with selected counterparties to further limit counterparty exposures, which provide for netting of exposures, and daily monitoring of counterparty credit ratings, exposures and associated collateral levels. We believe the risk of incurring losses due to nonperformance by our counterparties is manageable. For further information on derivatives, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 6, Derivative Financial Instruments." Based on our accounting policy, our disclosed exposure measures the fair value of derivatives that have become favorable to us and, therefore, is a combined credit exposure if all of the involved counterparties failed to fulfill their obligations. In the hypothetical scenario where all of our counterparties fail to fulfill their obligations, our exposure would be $1,342.6 million; however, including collateral received our exposure would be reduced to $947.0 million at December 31, 2009. For further information on derivative exposure, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 6, Derivative Financial Instruments" under the caption, "Exposure." We manage our exposure on a net basis, whereby we net positive and negative exposures for each counterparty with agreements in place. Netting positive and negative exposures would yield an exposure of $485.4 million, which is reduced to $89.8 million with pledged collateral at December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2009, we held total collateral of $395.6 million in the form of cash and securities and we posted $273.7 million in cash and securities as collateral to our counterparties. We have not incurred any material losses on derivative financial instruments due to counterparty nonperformance. As of December 31, 2009, any deterioration in our derivative counterparties credit would not materially impact our financial statements.  
 
