Item 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The following analysis discusses our financial condition as of December 31, 2010, compared with December 31, 2009, and our consolidated results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, and, where appropriate, factors that may affect our future financial performance. The discussion should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and the related notes to the financial statements and the other financial information included elsewhere in this Form 10 K. Forward Looking Information Our narrative analysis below contains forward looking statements intended to enhance the readers ability to assess our future financial performance. Forward looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements that represent our beliefs concerning future operations, strategies, financial results or other developments, and contain words and phrases such as "anticipate," "believe," "plan," "estimate," "expect," "intend," and similar expressions. Forward looking statements are made based upon managements current expectations and beliefs concerning future developments and their potential effects on us. Such forward looking statements are not guarantees of future performance. Actual results may differ materially from those included in the forward looking statements as a result of risks and uncertainties. Those risks and uncertainties include, but are not limited to the risk factors listed in Item 1A. "Risk Factors." 32 Table of Contents Overview We provide financial products and services through the following reportable segments: Retirement and Investor Services, which consists of our asset accumulation operations that provide retirement savings and related investment products and services. We provide a comprehensive portfolio of asset accumulation products and services to businesses and individuals in the U.S., with a concentration on small and medium sized businesses. We offer to businesses products and services for defined contribution pension plans, including 401(k) and 403(b) plans, defined benefit pension plans, nonqualified executive benefit plans and employee stock ownership plan consulting services. We also offer annuities, mutual funds and bank products and services to the employees of our business customers and other individuals. Principal Global Investors, which consists of our asset management operations, offers an extensive range of equity, fixed income and real estate investments as well as specialized overlay and advisory services to institutional investors. Principal International, which offers retirement products and services, annuities, mutual funds, institutional asset management and life insurance accumulation products through operations in Brazil, Chile, China, Hong Kong SAR, India, Indonesia, Malaysia, Mexico, Singapore and Thailand. U.S. Insurance Solutions, which provides individual life insurance as well as specialty benefits in the U.S. Our individual life insurance products include universal and variable universal life insurance and traditional life insurance. Our specialty benefit products include group dental and vision insurance, individual and group disability insurance and group life insurance. Effective January 1, 2011, wellness services and fee for service claims administration transitioned to the Specialty Benefits division from the Corporate segment. Corporate, which manages the assets representing capital that has not been allocated to any other segment. Financial results of the Corporate segment primarily reflect our financing activities (including interest expense and preferred stock dividends), income on capital not allocated to other segments, inter segment eliminations, income tax risks and certain income, expenses and other after tax adjustments not allocated to the segments based on the nature of such items. Economic Factors and Trends Continuing improvement in the equity markets since the latter half of 2009 led to increases in our Retirement and Investor Services segments account values and our Principal Global Investors segments AUM relative to year end 2008. Since account values and AUM are the base by which these businesses generate profits, the increase in account values and AUM has contributed to the overall improvement of our profits. In our Principal International segment, we continued to grow our business organically through our existing subsidiaries and joint ventures and through strategic acquisitions. The global credit market disruptions, market illiquidity and foreign currency depreciation during the second half of 2008 resulted in a decrease in our Principal International segments AUM in 2008. AUM levels increased significantly during 2010 and 2009 as a result of positive net customer cash flows, increasing equity markets and foreign currency appreciation. In our U.S. Insurance Solutions segment, we continue to shift the marketing emphasis of our individual life insurance business to universal life insurance products from traditional life insurance products. Our specialty benefits insurance business is experiencing a slowdown in growth relative to prior years due to a combination of lower sales and higher lapses in our group lines, as well as reduced growth in salaries and the number of covered lives of our existing group customers. This slowdown is a direct reflection of the increasingly competitive marketplace and economic pressures facing our customers. The credit market disruptions that began in 2008 resulted in an increase in our realized capital losses, which are reflected in net income, and volatility of unrealized capital losses, which are reflected in accumulated other comprehensive income. Through this stressed environment our assets and liabilities have performed as expected, and accordingly, a majority of our unrealized losses were never realized as we were not a forced seller of assets. Due to the aforementioned market conditions, we built additional liquidity in 2008 and into 2009 by increasing cash and cash equivalent holdings. During this period, new cash inflows were primarily invested in cash, short term government backed securities and other liquid investments. As a result of the move to increase cash holdings, yields were lower than historically experienced. Although we will continue to invest a higher percentage of our assets in more liquid investments relative to historical levels, recent market conditions have allowed us to incrementally invest in other investments that are expected to enhance investment yields. During 2010, realized capital losses continued to decrease and we moved to a net unrealized capital gain position as compared to a net unrealized capital loss position at the end of 2009. Additionally, yields showed modest improvement in 2010 from 2009 levels. 33  Table of Contents Profitability Our profitability depends in large part upon our: amount of AUM; spreads we earn on our general account asset accumulation business that result from the difference between what we earn and what we credit to policyholders; ability to generate fee revenues by providing administrative and investment management services; ability to price our insurance products at a level that enables us to earn a margin over the cost of providing benefits and the related expenses; ability to manage our investment portfolio to maximize investment returns and minimize risks such as interest rate changes or defaults or impairments of invested assets; ability to effectively hedge fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates on certain transactions and ability to manage our operating expenses. Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates The increasing complexity of the business environment and applicable authoritative accounting guidance requires us to closely monitor our accounting policies. Our significant accounting policies are described in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1, Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies." We have identified seven critical accounting policies that are complex and require significant judgment and estimates about matters that are inherently uncertain. A summary of our critical accounting policies is intended to enhance the readers ability to assess our financial condition and results of operations and the potential volatility due to changes in estimates and changes in guidance. The identification, selection and disclosure of critical accounting estimates and policies have been discussed with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. Valuation and Impairment of Fixed Income Investments Fixed Maturities. Fixed maturities include bonds, mortgage backed securities, redeemable preferred stock and certain non redeemable preferred stock. We classify our fixed maturities as either available for sale or trading and, accordingly, carry them at fair value in the consolidated statements of financial position. The fair values of our public fixed maturities are primarily based on market prices from independent pricing services. In addition, 22% of our invested asset portfolio is invested in fixed maturities that are private market assets, where there are no readily available market quotes to determine the fair market value. The majority of these assets are valued using a spread pricing matrix that utilizes observable market inputs. Securities are grouped into pricing categories that vary by asset class, sector, rating and average life. Each pricing category is assigned a risk spread based on studies of observable public market data or market clearing data from the investment professionals assigned to specific security classes. The expected cash flows of the security are then discounted back at the current Treasury curve plus the appropriate risk spread. Certain market events that could impact the valuation of securities include issuer credit ratings, business climate, management changes, litigation and government actions among others. See item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 14, Fair Value Measurements" for further discussion. If we are unable to price a fixed maturity security from third party pricing vendors we may obtain a broker quote or utilize an internal pricing model specific to the asset utilizing relevant market information to the extent available. Less than 1% of our fixed maturities were valued using internal models. A rate increase based on the combined movement of interest rates and credit spreads of 100 basis points would produce a total value of approximately $39.5 billion, as compared to the recorded amount of $41.3 billion related to our fixed maturity, available for sale assets held by the Principal Life general account as of December 31, 2010. Given the recent unprecedented market disruption, a 100 basis point movement in the combined portfolio rate is reasonably likely. We had a $2,154.6 million increase in net unrealized gains within the U.S. fixed maturities, available for sale portfolio for the year ended December 31, 2010, of which an approximate $1.0 billion net unrealized gain can be attributed to an approximate 57 basis points decrease in interest rates and the remaining net unrealized gains related to other market factors. We had a $6,269.9 million decrease in net unrealized losses for the year ended December 31, 2009, of which an approximate $1.9 billion net unrealized loss can be attributed to an approximate 110 basis points increase in interest rates. This was more than offset by net unrealized gains related to other market factors. Fixed maturities classified as available for sale are subject to impairment reviews. When evaluating fixed maturities for impairment, we consider relevant facts and circumstances in evaluating whether a credit or interest related impairment is other than temporary. Relevant facts and circumstances considered include: (1) the extent and length of time the fair value has been below cost; (2) the reasons for the decline in value; (3) the financial position and access to capital of the issuer, including the current and future impact of any specific events; (4) for structured securities, the adequacy of the expected cash flows and (5) our intent to sell a security or whether it is more likely than not we will be 34 Table of Contents required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost which, in some cases, may extend to maturity. Prior to 2009, our ability and intent to hold fixed maturities for a period of time that allowed for the recovery in value was considered rather than our intent to sell those securities. When it is determined that the decline in value is other than temporary the carrying value of the security is reduced to its fair value, and a corresponding impairment loss is reported primarily in net income, with noncredit impairment losses for certain fixed maturities we do not intend to sell reported in other comprehensive income. There are a number of significant risks and uncertainties inherent in the process of monitoring impairments and determining if an impairment is other than temporary. These risks and uncertainties include: (1) the risk that our assessment of an issuers ability to meet all of its contractual obligations will change based on changes in the credit characteristics of that issuer; (2) the risk that the economic outlook will be worse than expected or have more of an impact on the issuer than anticipated; (3) the risk that our investment professionals are making decisions based on fraudulent or misstated information in the financial statements provided by issuers and (4) the risk that new information obtained by us or changes in other facts and circumstances lead us to change our intent to hold the security until it recovers in value. Any of these situations could result in a charge to net income in a future period. At December 31, 2010, we had $10,588.6 million in available for sale fixed maturities with gross unrealized losses totaling $1,488.8 million. Included in the gross unrealized losses are losses attributable to both movements in market interest rates as well as movement in credit spreads. Net income would be reduced by approximately $1,488.8 million, on a pre tax basis, if all the securities in an unrealized loss position were deemed to be other than temporarily impaired and our intent was to sell all such securities. Mortgage Loans. Mortgage loans consist primarily of commercial mortgage loans. At December 31, 2010, the carrying value of our commercial mortgage loans was $9,609.0 million. Commercial mortgage loans are generally reported at cost adjusted for amortization of premiums and accrual of discounts, computed using the interest method and net of valuation allowances. Commercial mortgage loans are considered impaired when, based on current information and events, it is probable that we will be unable to collect all amounts due according to contractual terms of the loan agreement. When we determine that a loan is impaired, a valuation allowance is created for the difference between the carrying amount of the mortgage loan and the estimated value less cost to sell. Estimated value is based on either the present value of the expected future cash flows discounted at the loans effective interest rate, the loans observable market price or the fair value of the collateral. The determination of the calculation and the adequacy of the mortgage loan valuation allowance and mortgage impairments are subjective. Our periodic evaluation and assessment of the adequacy of the mortgage loan valuation allowance and the need for mortgage impairments is based on known and inherent risks in the portfolio, adverse situations that may affect the borrowers ability to repay, the estimated value of the underlying collateral, composition of the loan portfolio, current economic conditions, loss experience and other relevant factors. The calculation for determining mortgage impairment amounts requires estimating the amounts and timing of future cash flows expected to be received on specific loans, estimating the value of the collateral and gauging changes in the economic environment in general. The total valuation allowance can be expected to increase when economic conditions worsen and decrease when economic conditions improve. For more detailed information concerning mortgage loan valuation allowances and impairments, see Item 7. "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Investments U.S. Investment Operations Mortgage Loans," and Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Footnote 4, Investments Mortgage Loan Valuation Allowance." We utilize an internally developed model to provide estimates and timing of loan losses. To assess the sensitivity of the loans to foreclosure and loss severities, the loans were stressed using a base downside scenario and a severe downside scenario. The base downside scenario stressed the portfolio to an economic state that included delinquencies increasing to the 1% 3% range, higher than average commercial property vacancies in excess of equilibrium levels and flat to minimal space absorption. The severe downside scenario assumed another recession starting with the worst historical economic state and persistence of that state for four years. Characteristics of the worst economic state include significantly above average commercial mortgage delinquencies in excess of 5%, very high commercial real estate property vacancies significantly above equilibrium levels and zero to negative space absorption. The maximum negative effect on one year pre tax net income from use of these models was $25 $40 million in the base downside scenario and $90 $115 million under the severe downside scenario. We have a large experienced commercial real estate staff centrally located in Des Moines, which includes commercial mortgage underwriters, loan closers, loan servicers, engineers, appraisers, credit analysts, research staff, legal staff, information technology personnel and portfolio managers. Experienced commercial real estate senior management adheres to a disciplined process in reviewing all transactions for approval on a consistent basis. The typical commercial mortgage loan for us averages in the mid 40% percent loan to value range at origination with a net operating income coverage ratio of 3.5 times the annual debt service and is internally rated AA on a bond equivalent basis. Based on the most recent analysis, our commercial mortgage loan portfolio, excluding mortgage loans held in our Principal Global Investors segment, has an overall loan to value ratio of 66% with a 1.8 times debt service coverage. The large equity cushion and strong debt service coverage in our commercial mortgage investments will help insulate us from stress during times of weak commercial real estate fundamentals. 35 Table of Contents Derivatives We primarily use derivatives to hedge or reduce exposure to market risks. The fair values of exchange traded derivatives are determined through quoted market prices. The fair values of over the counter derivative instruments are determined using either pricing valuation models that utilize market observable inputs or broker quotes. On an absolute fair value basis, 90.9% of our over the counter derivative assets and liabilities are valued using pricing valuation models, while the remaining 9.1% are valued using broker quotes. See Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 14, Fair Value Measurements" for further discussion. The fair values of our derivative instruments can be impacted by changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates, credit spreads, equity indices, and volatility, as well as other contributing factors. We also issue certain annuity contracts and other insurance contracts that include embedded derivatives that have been bifurcated from the host contract. They are valued using a combination of historical data and actuarial judgment. See Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 14, Fair Value Measurements" for further discussion. We include our assumption for own non performance risk in the valuation of these embedded derivatives. As our credit spreads widen or tighten, the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities decrease or increase, leading to an increase or decrease in net income. If the current market credit spreads reflecting our own creditworthiness move to zero (tighten), the reduction to net income would be approximately $2.1 million, net of DPAC and income taxes, based on December 31, 2010, reported amounts. The use of risk margins for the valuation of embedded derivatives increases the fair value of the embedded derivative liabilities. The accounting for derivatives is complex and interpretations of the applicable accounting standards continue to evolve. Judgment is applied in determining the availability and application of hedge accounting designations and the appropriate accounting treatment. Judgment and estimates are used to determine the fair value of some of our derivatives. Volatility in net income can result from changes in fair value of derivatives that do not qualify or are not designated for hedge accounting and changes in fair value of embedded derivatives. Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Other Actuarial Balances Commissions and other costs (underwriting, issuance and agency expenses) that vary with and are primarily related to the acquisition of new and renewal insurance policies and investment contract business are capitalized to the extent recoverable. Maintenance costs and acquisition costs that are not deferrable are charged to net income as incurred. Amortization Based on Estimated Gross Profits. DPAC for universal life type insurance contracts, participating life insurance policies and certain investment contracts are amortized over the expected lifetime of the policies in relation to estimated gross profits ("EGP"). In addition to DPAC, the following actuarial balances are also amortized in relation to EGP or contract assessments. Sales inducement asset Sales inducements are amounts that are credited to the contractholders account balance as an inducement to purchase the contract. Like DPAC, the cost of the sales inducement is capitalized and amortized over the expected life of the contract, in proportion to EGP. Unearned revenue liability An unearned revenue liability is established when we collect fees or other policyholder assessments that represent compensation for services to be provided in future periods. These revenues are deferred and then amortized over the expected life of the contract, in proportion to EGP. Reinsurance asset or liability For universal life type products that are reinsured, a reinsurance asset or liability is established to spread the net reinsurance costs or profits in proportion to the EGP on the underlying business. Present value of future profits ("PVFP") This is an intangible asset that arises in connection with the acquisition of a life insurance company or a block of insurance business. PVFP for universal life type insurance contracts, participating life insurance policies and certain investment contracts is amortized over the expected life of the contracts acquired, in proportion to EGP. Additional benefit reserves These are additional liabilities that are established for annuity or universal life type contracts that provide benefit guarantees, or for contracts that are expected to produce profits followed by losses. The liabilities are accrued in relation to estimated contract assessments. At issue and each valuation date, we develop an estimate of the expected future gross profits that contains assumptions relating to mortality, morbidity, lapses, investment yield and expenses. As actual experience emerges, the gross profits may vary from those expected either in magnitude or timing, in which case a true up to actual occurs as a charge or credit to current net income. In addition, we are required to revise our assumptions regarding future experience if actual experience or other evidence suggests that earlier estimates should be revised. Both actions, reflecting actual experience and changing future estimates, can change both the current amount and the future amortization pattern of the DPAC asset and related actuarial balances. For individual variable life insurance, individual variable annuities and group annuities which have separate account U.S. equity investment options, we utilize a mean reversion methodology (reversion to the mean assumption), a common industry practice, to determine the future domestic equity market growth rate assumption used for the calculation of EGP. If actual annualized U.S. equity market performance varies from our 8% long term assumption, we assume 36 Table of Contents different performance levels in the short term such that the mean return is equal to the long term assumption over the mean reversion period. However, our mean reversion process generally limits assumed returns to a range of 4 12% during the mean reversion period. The 12% cap was reached during the third quarter of 2008, and the mean reversion rate has remained at the 12% cap since then. Therefore, until the mean reversion rate falls below the 12% cap, we will not adjust the equity return assumption by the amount needed to result in a mean return equal to the long term assumption. Amortization Based on Premium Paying Period. DPAC of non participating term life insurance and individual disability policies are amortized over the premium paying period of the related policies using assumptions consistent with those used in computing policyholder liabilities. Once these assumptions are made for a given policy or group of policies, they will not be changed over the life of the policy unless a loss recognition event occurs. As of December 31, 2010, these policies accounted for 10% of our total DPAC balance. Internal Replacements. We review polices for modifications that result in the exchange of an existing contract for a new contract. If the new contract is determined to be an internal replacement that is substantially changed from the replaced contract, any unamortized DPAC and related actuarial balances are written off and acquisition costs related to the new contract are capitalized as appropriate. If the new contract is substantially unchanged, we continue to amortize the existing DPAC and related actuarial balances. Recoverability. DPAC and sales inducement assets are subject to recoverability testing at the time of policy issue and loss recognition testing on an annual basis, or when an event occurs that may warrant loss recognition. Likewise, PVFP is subject to impairment testing on an annual basis, or when an event occurs that may warrant impairment. If loss recognition or impairment is necessary, the asset balances are written off to the extent that it is determined that future policy premiums and investment income or gross profits are not adequate to cover related losses and expenses. Sensitivities. As of December 31, 2010, the net balance of DPAC and related actuarial balances, excluding balances affected by changes in other comprehensive income, was a $3,447.8 million asset. We perform sensitivity analyses to assess the impact that certain assumptions have on our DPAC and related actuarial balances. The following table shows the estimated immediate impact of various assumption changes on our DPAC and related actuarial balances. Estimated impact to net income (1) (in millions) Reducing the future equity return assumption by 1% $ (7.4 ) Reducing the future general account net investment return assumption by 0.5% (2) $ (131.6 ) Removing the mean reversion methodology from the EGP calculation $ (15.7 ) A one time, 10% drop in equity market values $ (12.9 ) Increasing all future lapse rate assumptions by 10% of the baseline assumption (3) $ (27.1 ) (1)Reflects the net impact of changes to the DPAC asset, sales inducement asset, unearned revenue liability, reinsurance asset or liability, PVFP and additional benefit reserves. Includes the impact on net income of changes in DPAC and related balances for our equity method subsidiaries. The DPAC and related balances of the equity method subsidiaries are not included in the total DPAC balance listed above as they are not fully consolidated. (2)Net investment return represents net investment income plus net realized capital gains (losses). (3)This calculation reflects an increase in lapse rates only for products where increasing the lapse rate leads to a net write down of the DPAC asset and related actuarial balances. Lapse rates were left unchanged for those products where an increase in lapse rates would lead to a net write up of the DPAC asset and related actuarial balances. Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets Goodwill and other intangible assets include the cost of acquired subsidiaries in excess of the fair value of the net tangible assets recorded in connection with acquisitions. Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives are not amortized; rather, we test the carrying value for impairment at least annually at the reporting unit level, which is a business one level below the operating segment. We formally conduct our annual goodwill and other intangible asset impairment testing during the fourth quarter. Under certain circumstances, interim impairment tests may be required if events occur or circumstances change that would more likely than not reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its carrying value. See Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1, Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies" for further discussion. We are required to perform a two step test in our evaluation of the carrying value of goodwill. In Step 1 of the evaluation, the fair value of each reporting unit is determined and compared to the carrying value of the reporting unit. If the fair value is greater than the carrying value, then the carrying value of the reporting unit is deemed to be recoverable, and Step 2 is not required. If the fair value estimate is less than the carrying value, it is an indicator that impairment may exist, and Step 2 is required. In Step 2, the reporting units goodwill implied fair value is determined. The reporting units fair value as determined in Step 1 is assigned to all of its net assets (recognized and unrecognized) as if the reporting unit were acquired in a business combination as of the date of the impairment test. If the implied fair value of the reporting units goodwill is lower than its carrying amount, goodwill is impaired and written down to its implied fair value. 37 Table of Contents The determination of fair value for our reporting units is primarily based on an income approach whereby we use discounted cash flows for each reporting unit. When available, and as appropriate, we use market approaches or other valuation techniques to corroborate discounted cash flow results. The discounted cash flow model used for each reporting unit is based on either income or distributable cash flow, depending on the reporting unit being valued. For the income model, we determine fair value based on the present value of the most recent income projections for each reporting unit and calculate a terminal value utilizing a terminal growth rate. The significant assumptions in the operating income model include: income projections, including the underlying assumptions; discount rate and terminal growth rate. For the distributable cash flow model, we determine fair value based on the present value of projected statutory net income and changes in required capital to determine distributable income for the respective reporting unit. The significant assumptions in the distributable cash flow model include: required capital levels; income projections, including the underlying assumptions; discount rate; new business projection period and new business production growth. We performed an interim goodwill impairment test as of September 30, 2010, in response to our decision to exit the group medical insurance business. As a result of the shortened period of projected cash flows, we determined the goodwill related to this reporting unit within our Corporate operating segment was impaired and it was written down to a value of zero. We recorded a $43.6 million pre tax impairment loss as an operating expense during third quarter 2010 in the consolidated statements of operations. Intangible assets with useful lives are amortized as related benefits emerge and are reviewed periodically for indicators of impairment in value. If facts and circumstances suggest possible impairment, the sum of the estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset is compared to the current carrying value of the asset. If the undiscounted future cash flows are less than the carrying value, an impairment loss is recognized for the excess of the carrying amount of assets over their fair value. For those assets amortized as related benefits emerge, the most significant assumptions involved in the estimation of future benefits include surrender/lapse rates, interest margins and mortality. Other than impairments related to our decision to exit the group medical insurance business, we did not recognize a material impairment in our 2010 consolidated statement of operations. Investment management contracts acquired in our 2006 purchase of WM Advisors, Inc. are considered an indefinite lived intangible and are the most material intangible asset included in our 2010 consolidated statement of financial position with a carrying value of $608.0 million. Positive net cash flows and expected future flows combined with significantly lower than expected expenses more than offset lower than expected market returns on the underlying assets acquired. As a result, the fair value of this intangible asset as of December 31, 2010, was in excess of its carrying value. We cannot predict certain future events that might adversely affect the reported value of goodwill and other intangible assets that totaled $345.4 million and $834.6 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2010. Such events include, but are not limited to, strategic decisions made in response to economic and competitive conditions, the impact of the economic environment on our customer base, interest rate movements, declines in the equity markets, the legal environment in which the businesses operate or a material negative change in our relationships with significant customers. Additional information about impairments is described in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 2, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets." Insurance Reserves Reserves are liabilities representing estimates of the amounts that will come due, at some point in the future, to or on behalf of our policyholders. U.S. GAAP, allowing for some degree of managerial judgment, prescribes the methods of establishing reserves. Future policy benefits and claims include reserves for individual traditional and group life insurance, accident and health insurance and individual and group annuities that provide periodic income payments, which are computed using assumptions of mortality, morbidity, lapse, investment performance and expense. These assumptions are based on our experience and are periodically reviewed against industry standards to ensure actuarial credibility. For long duration insurance contracts, once these assumptions are made for a given policy or group of policies, they will not be changed over the life of the policy. However, significant changes in experience or assumptions may require us to provide for expected future losses on a product by establishing premium deficiency reserves. Premium deficiency reserves may also be established for short duration contracts to provide for expected future losses. Our reserve levels are reviewed throughout the year using internal analysis including, among other things, experience studies, claim development analysis and annual statutory asset adequacy analysis. To the extent experience indicates potential loss recognition, we recognize losses on certain lines of business. The ultimate accuracy of the assumptions on these long tailed insurance products cannot be determined until the obligation of the entire block of business on which the assumptions were made is extinguished. Short term variances of actual results from the assumptions used in the computation of the reserves are reflected in current period net income and can impact quarter to quarter net income. Future policy benefits and claims also include reserves for incurred but unreported health, disability and life insurance claims. We recognize claims costs in the period the service was provided to our policyowners. However, claims costs incurred in a particular period are not known with certainty until after we receive, process and pay the claims. We 38 Table of Contents determine the amount of this liability using actuarial methods based on historical claim payment patterns as well as emerging medical cost trends, where applicable, to determine our estimate of claim liabilities. We also look back to assess how our prior periods estimates developed. To the extent appropriate, changes in such development are recorded as a change to current period claim expense. Historically, the amount of the claim reserve adjustment made in subsequent reporting periods for prior period estimates was within a reasonable range given our normal claim fluctuations. Benefit Plans The reported expense and liability associated with pension and other postretirement benefit plans requires the use of assumptions. Numerous assumptions are made regarding the discount rate, expected long term rate of return on plan assets, turnover, expected compensation increases, health care claim costs, health care cost trends, retirement rates and mortality. The discount rate and the expected return on plan assets have the most significant impact on the level of expense. The assumed discount rate is determined by projecting future benefit payments inherent in the Projected Benefit Obligation and discounting those cash flows using a spot yield curve. For 2010 year end, this yield curve was the Principal Pension Discount Yield Curve ("Principal curve"), while for 2009 we utilized the Mercer Pension Discount Yield Curve ("Mercer curve"). Prior to 2009 we used the Citigroup Pension Liability Discount Yield Curve. We changed curves based on research performed in 2009 and believe the Mercer and Principal curves better comply with applicable accounting standards. We used the Mercer curve only as a temporary measure until the Principal curve was available. Based on this methodology for the 2010 year end, we set the discount rate at 5.65%. A 0.25% decrease in the discount rate would increase the pension benefits Projected Benefit Obligation and the 2011 Net Periodic Pension Cost ("NPPC") by approximately $72.4 million and $11.0 million, respectively. A 0.25% decrease in the discount rate would increase the other postretirement benefits Accumulated Postretirement Benefit Obligation by approximately $3.8 million and would have a nominal impact on the 2011 Net Periodic Benefit Cost ("NPBC"). A 0.25% increase in the discount rate would result in decreases in benefit obligations and expenses at a level generally commensurate with those noted above. The assumed long term rate of return on plan assets is set at the long term rate expected to be earned based on the long term investment policy of the plans and the various classes of the invested funds. Historical and future expected returns of multiple asset classes were analyzed to develop a risk free real rate of return and risk premiums for each asset class. The overall long term rate for each asset class was developed by combining a long term inflation component, the real risk free rate of return and the associated risk premium. A weighted average rate was developed based on long term returns for each asset class, the plans target asset allocation policy and the tax structure of the trusts. For the 2010 NPPC and 2010 NPBC, an 8.00% and 7.30% weighted average long term rate of return was used, respectively. For the 2011 NPPC and 2011 NPBC, an 8.00% and 7.30% weighted average long term rate of return assumption, respectively, will also be used. A 0.25% decrease in the assumed long term rate of return would increase 2011 NPPC by approximately $3.5 million and the 2011 NPBC by approximately $1.2 million. A 0.25% increase in this rate would result in a decrease to expense at the same levels. The assumed return on plan assets is based on the fair market value of plan assets as of December 31, 2010. The compensation increase assumption is generally set at a rate consistent with current and expected long term compensation and salary policy, including inflation. Actuarial gains and losses are amortized using a straight line amortization method over the average remaining service period of employees, which is approximately 7 years for pension costs and approximately 12 years for other postretirement benefit costs. Prior service costs are amortized on a weighted average basis over approximately 4 years for pension and 5 years for other postretirement benefit costs. See Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 11, Employee and Agent Benefits." Income Taxes We provide for income taxes based on our estimate of the liability for taxes due. Our tax accounting represents managements best estimate of various events and transactions, such as completion of tax audits or establishment of, or changes to, a valuation allowance associated with certain deferred tax assets, which could affect our estimates and effective income tax rate in a particular quarter or annual period. In determining the need for a valuation allowance, we consider many factors, including future reversals of existing taxable temporary differences, future taxable income exclusive of reversing temporary differences and carryforwards, taxable income in prior carryback years and any tax planning strategies we would employ to realize the tax benefit. Inherent in the provision for income taxes are estimates regarding the deductibility of certain items, the timing of income and expense recognition and the current or future realization of capital losses and certain tax credits. In the event our estimates of the ultimate deductibility of certain items, the timing of the recognition of income and expense or the current or future realization of capital losses and certain tax credits differ from prior estimates due to the receipt of new information, we may be required to significantly change the provision for income taxes recorded in the consolidated financial statements. Any such change could significantly affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial statements in the year these estimates change. A further significant decline in value of assets incorporated into our tax planning strategies could lead to an increase of our valuation allowance on deferred tax assets having an adverse effect on current and future results. 39  Table of Contents In addition, the amount of income taxes paid is subject to audits in various jurisdictions. Tax benefits are recognized for book purposes when the more likely than not threshold is met with regard to the validity of an uncertain tax position. Once this threshold is met, for each uncertain tax position we recognize in earnings the largest amount of benefit that is greater than 50% likely of being realized upon ultimate settlement with the Internal Revenue Service or other income taxing authorities for audits ongoing or not yet commenced. We had $230.9 million and $243.6 million of current income tax receivables associated with outstanding audit issues reported as other assets in our consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We believe that we have adequate defenses against, or sufficient provisions for, the contested issues, but final resolution of contested issues could take several years while legal remedies are pursued. Consequently, we do not anticipate the ultimate resolution of audits ongoing or not yet commenced to have a material impact on our net income. Transactions Affecting Comparability of Results of Operations Dispositions We entered into disposition agreements or disposed of the following businesses, among others, during the past three years: Post Advisory Group, LLC. Effective January 1, 2009, we sold certain fixed income asset management contracts within our Post Advisory Group, LLC subsidiary, at which time we realized benefits from the cancellation of deferred compensation agreements. The AUM associated with this sale totaled $3.8 billion. The total cash proceeds of up to $50.0 million are expected to be received over a four year time period. The initial $2.2 million cash down payment was received in the second quarter of 2009. The transaction does not qualify for discontinued operations treatment under U.S. GAAP. The realized capital gain from the sale, which is reflected in our Principal Global Investors segment, is not material. Other Group Medical Insurance Business. On September 30, 2010, we announced our decision to exit the group medical insurance business (insured and administrative services only) and entered into an agreement with United Healthcare Services, Inc. to renew group medical insurance coverage for our customers as the business transitions. The exiting of the group medical insurance business does not yet qualify for discontinued operations treatment under U.S. GAAP. Therefore, the results of operations for the group medical insurance business are still included in our consolidated income from continuing operations. As a result of our decision to exit the group medical insurance business, amounts for our group medical insurance business, which had previously been reported in the Life and Health Insurance segment, are now reported in the Corporate segment and the Life and Health Insurance segment has been renamed the U.S. Insurance Solutions segment. Our segment results for 2009 and 2008 have been restated to conform to the current segment presentation. With the exception of corporate overhead, amounts related to our group medical insurance business previously included in segment operating earnings have been removed from operating earnings for all periods presented and are reported as other after tax adjustments. The operating revenues associated with our exited group medical insurance business were $1,403.9 million, $1,610.6 million and $1,762.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The other after tax adjustments associated with the after tax earnings of our exited group medical insurance business were $24.0 million, $70.5 million and $96.3 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Brasilprev Seguros e Previdencia S.A. On April 30, 2010, we signed definitive agreements with Banco, including the Shareholders Agreement governing the operations of our pension joint venture, Brasilprev. The agreements result in Brasilprev having, for 23 years, the exclusive right to distribute pension products within the Banco bank network and a reduction in our economic interest from 46% to 25%, which resulted in a $72.1 million after tax net realized capital gain in the second quarter of 2010. Brasilprev will continue to be jointly managed and reported as an equity method investment in our Principal International segment. Due to the reduction in our economic interest, we expect to see a decline in our earnings from this operation in the near term. Senior Note Issuance. On May 18, 2009, we issued $750.0 million of senior notes. We issued a $400.0 million series of notes that bear interest at 7.875% and will mature on May 15, 2014, and a $350.0 million series of notes that bear interest at 8.875% and will mature on May 15, 2019. Interest on the notes is payable semi annually on May 15 and November 15 each year, beginning on November 15, 2009. The proceeds were primarily used to refinance $440.9 million of notes that matured on August 15, 2009, with the remaining proceeds being used for general corporate purposes. Common Stock Issuance. On May 11, 2009, we issued 58.2 million shares of common stock at a price of $19.75 per share. Net proceeds from the issuance were $1,109.1 million. The proceeds from this offering will be used for general corporate purposes. Commercial Mortgage Securities Issuance Operation. During the third quarter of 2008, we made a decision to terminate our commercial mortgage securities issuance operation. This termination does not qualify for discontinued operations 40 Table of Contents treatment under U.S. GAAP. Therefore, the results of the terminated commercial mortgage securities issuance operation are still included in our consolidated income from continuing operations. As a result of our decision to terminate our commercial mortgage securities issuance operation, amounts previously included in our Principal Global Investors segment operating earnings related to our commercial mortgage securities issuance operation have been removed from operating earnings for all periods presented and are reported as other after tax adjustments. Our commercial mortgage securities issuance operation had operating revenues of $(0.8) million, $(0.5) million and $(32.2) million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, and after tax operating losses of $0.5 million, $0.7 million and $28.1 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. Fluctuations in Foreign Currency to U.S. Dollar Exchange Rates Fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates for countries in which we have operations can affect reported financial results. In years when foreign currencies weaken against the U.S. dollar, translating foreign currencies into U.S. dollars results in fewer U.S. dollars to be reported. When foreign currencies strengthen, translating foreign currencies into U.S. dollars results in more U.S. dollars to be reported. Foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations create variances in our financial statement line items but have not had a material impact on our consolidated financial results. The Principal International segments operating earnings were positively impacted $15.2 million, negatively impacted $19.6 million and positively impacted $6.0 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, as a result of fluctuations in foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates for our foreign operations. For a discussion of our approaches to foreign currency exchange rate risk, see Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Foreign Currency Risk." Effects of Inflation The impact of inflation has not had a material effect on our annual consolidated results of operations over the past three years. However, we may be materially affected by inflation in the future. For further discussion on inflation, see Item 1A. "Risk Factors Continued difficult conditions in the global capital markets and the economy generally may materially and adversely affect our business and results of operations." Stock Based Compensation Plans For information related to our stock based compensation plans, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 17, Stock Based Compensation Plans." Defined Benefit Pension Expense The 2010 annual defined benefit pension expense for substantially all of our employees and certain agents was $109.5 million pre tax, which was a $48.1 million decrease from the 2009 pre tax pension expense of $157.6 million. This decrease is primarily due to actual asset returns in 2009 that were greater than expected, resulting in an actuarial gain and higher than expected plan assets as of December 31, 2009. The higher asset value increased the expected return on plan assets in 2010 and the actuarial gain reduced the previous actuarial loss and its amortization in 2010. The expected long term return on plan assets and the discount rate used to develop the 2010 expense remained at the same 8.0% and 6.0% rates, respectively, used to develop the 2009 expense. The 2011 annual defined benefit pension expense for substantially all of our employees and certain agents is expected to be $90.9 million pre tax, which is an $18.6 million decrease from the 2010 pre tax pension expense of $109.5 million. This decrease is primarily due to actual asset returns in 2010 that were higher than expected asset returns. The expected long term return on plan assets used to develop the 2011 expense remained at the same 8.0% as was used to develop the 2010 expense, while the discount rate declined from 6.0% to 5.65%. Due to the exit of the group medical insurance business, the expense will be re measured quarterly during 2011, with updated asset values and potentially different discount rates. The final expense for 2011 could be greater or less than $90.9 million. Healthcare Reform During the first quarter of 2010, federal legislation was enacted that reformed the healthcare system. Among the many changes, the newly enacted healthcare legislation eliminates the tax deductibility of retiree prescription drug expenses incurred after 2012, up to the Medicare Part D subsidy amount, which had been allowed to encourage employers to offer retiree drug coverage. We recognized a $7.8 million negative impact to net income for the year ended December 31, 2010, associated with the release of the portion of our deferred tax asset on accrued retiree prescription drug expenses related to our employees that will no longer be tax deductible after December 31, 2012. For additional healthcare reform information, see Item 1A. "Risk Factors Changes in laws, regulations or accounting standards may reduce our profitability." Recent Accounting Changes For recent accounting changes, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 1, Nature of Operations and Significant Accounting Policies." 41 Table of Contents Results of Operations The following table presents summary consolidated financial information for the years indicated: Increase (decrease) For the year ended December 31, 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Revenues: Premiums and other considerations $ 3,555.5 $ 3,750.6 $ 4,209.2 $ (195.1 ) $ (458.6 ) Fees and other revenues 2,298.1 2,096.0 2,426.5 202.1 (330.5 ) Net investment income 3,496.5 3,400.8 3,994.3 95.7 (593.5 ) Net realized capital gains (losses), excluding impairment losses on available for sale securities 48.7 54.9 (214.8 ) (6.2 ) 269.7 Total other than temporary impairment losses on available for sale securities (296.3 ) (714.1 ) (479.3 ) 417.8 (234.8 ) Portion of impairment losses on fixed maturities, available for sale recognized in other comprehensive income 56.1 260.9 (204.8 ) 260.9 Net impairment losses on available for sale securities (240.2 ) (453.2 ) (479.3 ) 213.0 26.1 Net realized capital losses (191.5 ) (398.3 ) (694.1 ) 206.8 295.8 Total revenues 9,158.6 8,849.1 9,935.9 309.5 (1,086.8 ) Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses 5,338.4 5,334.5 6,219.9 3.9 (885.4 ) Dividends to policyholders 219.9 242.2 267.3 (22.3 ) (25.1 ) Operating expenses 2,759.0 2,526.6 2,987.4 232.4 (460.8 ) Total expenses 8,317.3 8,103.3 9,474.6 214.0 (1,371.3 ) Income before income taxes 841.3 745.8 461.3 95.5 284.5 Income taxes (benefits) 124.1 100.1 (4.5 ) 24.0 104.6 Net income 717.2 645.7 465.8 71.5 179.9 Net income attributable to noncontrolling interest 17.9 23.0 7.7 (5.1 ) 15.3 Net income attributable to Principal Financial Group, Inc. 699.3 622.7 458.1 76.6 164.6 Preferred stock dividends 33.0 33.0 33.0 Net income available to common stockholders $ 666.3 $ 589.7 $ 425.1 $ 76.6 $ 164.6 Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 Net Income Available to Common Stockholders Net income available to common stockholders increased primarily due to higher fees in our Retirement and Investor Services segment stemming from an increase in average account values, which resulted from continuing equity market improvement since the latter half of 2009. Our Principal Global Investors segment also had higher profitability due to higher fee revenues driven by an increase in average AUM, which resulted from continuing market improvement, as well as higher borrower fees from our real estate business resulting from higher transaction volumes and higher servicing fees. In addition, our Principal International segment had higher profitability primarily due to the strengthening of the Latin American currencies against the U.S. dollar, higher investment returns on assets not backing segment insurance products as a result of inflation in Chile during 2010 compared to deflation in 2009, and higher fee revenues driven by higher average AUM as a result of net customer cash flows and market performance. These increases in net income available to common stockholders were partially offset by an impairment of goodwill and severance accruals in the Corporate segment in the third quarter of 2010 associated with our decision to exit the group medical insurance business. The reduction in net realized capital losses was mostly offset by a corresponding increase in related DPAC amortization expense. Higher net realized capital losses in 2009 within our full service accumulation and individual annuities businesses resulted in lower DPAC amortization expense in 2009. Total Revenues Premiums decreased $205.3 million for the Corporate segment primarily due to a reduction in average covered medical members in our exited group medical insurance business. In addition, U.S. Insurance Solutions segment premiums decreased $90.9 million primarily due to a decrease in membership in our specialty benefits insurance business and the expected continued decline from the decreasing block of traditional life insurance business. Partially offsetting these decreases was an $85.0 million increase in Retirement and Investor Services segment premiums primarily due to an increase in sales of annuities with life contingencies within our individual annuities and full service payout businesses. Fees increased $115.5 million for our Retirement and Investor Services segment primarily due to higher fee income stemming from an increase in average account values as a result of continuing equity market improvement since the latter half of 2009. Fees also increased $37.9 million for our Principal Global Investors segment primarily due to higher fee revenues driven by an increase in average AUM as well as higher borrower fees from our real estate business resulting from higher transaction volumes and higher servicing fees. In addition, fees increased $31.7 million for our Principal 42 Table of Contents International segment primarily due to higher investment management fees driven by higher average AUM as a result of local market performance and net customer cash flows coupled with the strengthening of the Latin American currencies against the U.S. dollar. Net investment income increased primarily due to higher inflation based investment returns on average invested assets and cash as a result of inflation in Chile during 2010 compared to deflation in 2009. This increase was partially offset by a decrease in average invested assets and cash, excluding the fair value adjustment associated with fixed maturities and equity securities, primarily due to our decision to scale back our investment only business. For additional information, see "Investments Investment Results." Net realized capital gains (losses) can be volatile due to other than temporary impairments of invested assets, mark to market adjustments of certain invested assets and our decision to sell invested assets. Net realized capital losses decreased primarily due to lower impairments, net of noncredit losses recognized in other comprehensive income and recoveries from sales, on fixed maturities, available for sale; a gain associated with the second quarter 2010 signing of our Shareholders Agreement with Banco pertaining to our Brasilprev joint venture and lower losses on commercial mortgage loans. These items were partially offset by an increase in the residential mortgage loan loss provision for our Bank and Trust Services business in 2010, which primarily related to the home equity portfolio. For additional information, see "Investments Investment Results." Total Expenses Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $169.2 million for the Principal International segment, primarily due to higher inflation based interest crediting rates to customers in Chile and the strengthening of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar. Benefits, claims and settlement expenses also increased $89.4 million for the U.S. Insurance Solutions segment primarily due to higher gross claims and larger increases in reserves. Partially offsetting these increases was a $192.4 million decrease for the Corporate segment primarily due to a reduction in average covered medical members in our exited group medical insurance business. In addition, Retirement and Investor Services segment benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $62.3 million primarily due to a decrease in cost of interest credited stemming from lower variable crediting rates and a decline in average account values in our investment only business, which primarily resulted from our decision to scale back this business. Retirement and Investor Services operating expenses increased $177.8 million, primarily due to an increase in DPAC amortization expense resulting from more favorable DPAC unlocking in 2009 and, to a lesser extent, higher commission and distribution expenses resulting from an increase in sales and average account values. Operating expenses also increased $51.0 million for the Corporate segment primarily due to an impairment of goodwill and severance accruals associated with our decision to exit the group medical insurance business. Income Taxes The effective income tax rates were 15% and 13% for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The effective income tax rates were lower than the U.S. corporate income tax rate of 35% ("U.S. statutory rate") primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received, taxes on our share of earnings generated from equity method investments, which are reflected in net investment income, and the interest exclusion from taxable income. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 Net Income Available to Common Stockholders Due to the challenging economic environment, our revenues decreased while our employee defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit costs increased relative to 2008. In order to minimize the impact to net income available to common stockholders, we undertook extensive company wide expense savings initiatives to better align our expenses with the declining revenue base. Net income available to common stockholders increased primarily due to a $211.5 million after tax decrease in net realized capital losses. The change in net realized capital losses was primarily driven by mark to market gains versus losses on fixed maturities and equity securities classified as trading and higher gains on sales of fixed maturities. Partially offsetting this increase were lower earnings in our Principal Global Investors segment primarily due to the severe downturn in the global financial markets in 2008, which led to a significant reduction in AUM and revenues. Total Revenues Retirement and Investor Services segment premiums decreased $276.0 million primarily due to a decrease in sales of annuities with life contingencies within our individual annuities and full service payout businesses. In addition, premiums decreased $127.9 million for the Corporate segment primarily due to a reduction in average covered medical members in our exited group medical insurance business. Fees decreased $208.8 million for our Retirement and Investor Services segment resulting from an equity market driven decrease in average account values in 2009 compared to 2008. Fees also decreased $153.6 million for our Principal Global Investors segment due to a decrease in AUM as a result of declining market conditions as well as the 2009 sale of certain asset management contracts within Post Advisory Group, LLC. 43 Table of Contents Net investment income decreased primarily due to lower inflation based investment returns related to deflation in Chile during 2009, lower yields on floating rate investments supporting floating rate liabilities, and a decrease in average invested assets. For additional information, see "Investments Investment Results." Net realized capital gains (losses) can be volatile due to mark to market adjustments of certain invested assets, other than temporary impairments of invested assets and our decision to sell invested assets. Net realized capital losses decreased primarily due to mark to market gains versus losses on fixed maturities and equity securities classified as trading and higher gains on sales of fixed maturities. For additional information, see "Investments Investment Results." Total Expenses Benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $538.1 million for our Retirement and Investor Services segment, primarily due to a decrease in our investment only business resulting from our decision to scale back this business and lower variable crediting rates. Also contributing to the decline within the segment was a decrease in the change in reserves resulting from lower sales of annuities with life contingencies in our full service payout and individual annuities businesses. In addition, benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $257.4 million for our Principal International segment, primarily due to lower interest crediting rates to customers in Chile, which were impacted by deflation, and the weakening of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar. Despite a $177.0 million increase in employee defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit costs, operating expenses (excluding the impacts of DPAC and commissions) for our organization decreased as a result of company wide expense savings initiatives. Retirement and Investor Services operating expenses decreased $358.5 million, primarily due to a decrease in DPAC amortization related to favorable true up impacts from equity markets in 2009 compared to unfavorable true up impacts from equity markets in 2008. In addition, lower commission expense and fees paid to advisors stemming from a decrease in average account values in our Principal Funds business contributed to a decline in segment operating expenses. Furthermore, operating expenses decreased $115.6 million for the U.S. Insurance Solutions segment, primarily due to lower DPAC amortization and lower non deferred sales related expenses in our individual life insurance business. Income Taxes The effective income tax rates were 13% and 1% for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2009, was lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received, taxes on our share of earnings generated from equity method investments reflected in net investment income and the interest exclusion from taxable income. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2008, was lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received, interest exclusion from taxable income and additional U.S. foreign tax credits resulting from the second quarter 2008 enactment of legislation to increase the Brazilian tax rate. The effective income tax rate increased to 13% from 1% for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively, primarily due to a decrease in our net realized capital losses with no proportionate change in permanent items and additional U.S. foreign tax credits reflected in 2008 resulting from the Brazilian tax rate increase. The net increase in deferred tax liabilities associated with the 2008 enacted Brazilian income tax rate is reflected in net investment income because the equity method of accounting is applied to our Brazilian operations; however, the benefit from additional U.S. foreign tax credits is reflected in income tax expense. Results of Operations by Segment For results of operations by segment see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 16, Segment Information." Retirement and Investor Services Segment Retirement and Investor Services Trends Account values are a key indicator of earnings growth for the segment, as account values are the base by which the segment generates its fee and spread based profits. Net cash flow and market performance are the two main drivers of account value growth. Net cash flow reflects the segments ability to attract and retain client deposits. Market performance reflects not only the equity market performance, but also the investment performance of fixed income investments supporting our spread business. The percentage growth in earnings of the segment should generally track the percentage growth in account values. This trend may vary due to changes in business and or product mix. The following table presents the Retirement and Investor Services account value rollforward for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in billions) Account values, beginning of period $ 163.9 $ 146.1 $ 180.8 Net cash flow (1) (2.1 ) (3.4 ) 5.0 Credited investment performance 17.1 22.3 (37.6 ) Other (0.6 ) (1.1 ) (2.1 ) Account values, end of period $ 178.3 $ 163.9 $ 146.1 (1)Includes net cash flow of $(3.7) and $(5.2) billion for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, resulting from the decision to scale back our investment only business. 44  Table of Contents Retirement and Investor Services Segment Summary Financial Data The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the Retirement and Investor Services segment for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, Increase (decrease) 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Operating revenues: Premiums and other considerations $ 332.2 $ 247.2 $ 523.2 $ 85.0 $ (276.0 ) Fees and other revenues 1,361.3 1,243.9 1,455.1 117.4 (211.2 ) Net investment income 2,430.9 2,550.4 2,820.1 (119.5 ) (269.7 ) Total operating revenues 4,124.4 4,041.5 4,798.4 82.9 (756.9 ) Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses, including dividends to policyholders 2,128.7 2,217.5 2,711.5 (88.8 ) (494.0 ) Operating expenses 1,240.8 1,169.4 1,417.2 71.4 (247.8 ) Total expenses 3,369.5 3,386.9 4,128.7 (17.4 ) (741.8 ) Operating earnings before income taxes 754.9 654.6 669.7 100.3 (15.1 ) Income taxes 170.5 144.2 138.2 26.3 6.0 Operating earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest 0.2 (0.2 ) Operating earnings $ 584.4 $ 510.4 $ 531.3 $ 74.0 $ (20.9 ) Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 Operating Earnings Operating earnings increased $48.9 million and $16.2 million in our full service accumulation and Principal Funds businesses, respectively, primarily due to higher fees stemming from an increase in average account values, which resulted from continuing equity market improvement since the latter half of 2009. In addition, operating earnings increased in our Principal Fund business due to strong cash flows into the Global Diversified Income Fund, Preferred Securities Fund and High Yield Fund. Furthermore, operating earnings increased $17.8 million in our individual annuities business due to an increase in average account values, which resulted from continuing equity market improvement since the latter half of 2009 and growth in this block of business. Partially offsetting the increase in operating earnings was an $18.5 million decrease in our investment only business primarily due to an opportunistic early extinguishment of medium term notes in 2009 with limited corresponding activity in 2010. Operating Revenues Premiums increased $49.0 million in our full service payout business primarily due to an increase in sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies. The single premium product, which is typically used to fund defined benefit plan terminations, can generate large premiums from very few customers and therefore tends to vary from period to period. In addition, premiums increased $36.0 million in our individual annuities business primarily due to an increase in sales of annuities with life contingencies. Fees increased $73.0 million and $16.6 million in our full service accumulation and individual annuities businesses, respectively, primarily due to higher fee income stemming from an increase in average account values as a result of continuing equity market improvement since the latter half of 2009. In addition, fees increased $51.6 million in our Principal Funds business primarily due to an increase in management fee income and distribution income stemming from an increase in sales and average account values, which primarily resulted from continuing equity market improvement since the latter half of 2009. Partially offsetting the increase in fees was a $26.8 million decrease in our investment only business primarily due to fees received in 2009 relating to an opportunistic early extinguishment of medium term notes with limited corresponding activity in 2010. Net investment income decreased primarily due to a decrease in average invested assets, excluding the fair value adjustment associated with fixed maturities and equity securities, resulting from our decision to scale back our investment only business. Total Expenses Benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $123.1 million in our investment only business primarily due to a decrease in cost of interest credited stemming from lower variable crediting rates and a decline in average account values, which primarily resulted from our decision to scale back this business. In addition, benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $41.4 million in our full service accumulation business primarily due to a decrease in cost of interest credited stemming from lower variable crediting rates. Partially offsetting the decrease in benefits, claims and settlement expenses was a $45.4 million increase in our full service payout business primarily due to an increase in change of reserves resulting from an increase in sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies. Furthermore, benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $31.6 million in our individual annuities business primarily due to an increase in 45 Table of Contents change of reserves resulting from higher sales of annuities with life contingencies and continued growth in the block of business. Operating expenses in our full service accumulation business increased $34.7 million primarily due to an increase in DPAC amortization expense resulting from more favorable DPAC unlocking in 2009. In addition, operating expenses increased $24.1 million in our Principal Funds business primarily due to higher distribution expenses resulting from an increase in sales and average account values. Furthermore, operating expenses in our individual annuities business increased $16.7 million primarily due to an increase in DPAC amortization expense resulting from continued growth in the block of business. Income Taxes The effective income tax rates for the segment were 23% and 22% for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The effective income tax rates were lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily as a result of income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received and the interest exclusion from taxable income. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 Operating Earnings Operating earnings in our investment only and full service payout businesses decreased $38.6 million and $18.5 million, respectively, primarily due to a decrease in spread between net investment income and interest credited to policyholders. In addition, operating earnings in our full service accumulation business decreased $13.5 million primarily due to lower fee income resulting from an equity market driven decrease in average account values in 2009 compared to 2008 and an increase in employee defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit costs. The decline in our full service accumulation business was partially offset by a decrease in DPAC amortization related to favorable true up impacts from equity markets in 2009 compared to unfavorable true up impacts from equity markets in 2008. Partially offsetting the decrease in segment operating earnings was a $47.0 million increase in our individual annuities business primarily due to a decrease in DPAC amortization related to favorable true up impacts from equity markets in 2009 compared to unfavorable true up impacts from equity markets in 2008. Operating Revenues Premiums decreased $170.1 million in our individual annuities business primarily due to a decrease in sales of annuities with life contingencies resulting from increasing competition. Premiums in our full service payout business decreased $105.9 million primarily due to a decrease in sales of single premium group annuities with life contingencies. The single premium group annuity product, which is typically used to fund defined benefit plan terminations, can generate large premiums from very few customers and therefore tends to vary from period to period. Fees in our full service accumulation business decreased $106.0 million primarily resulting from an equity market driven decrease in average account values in 2009 compared to 2008 and shifts in the mix of business. Fees in our Principal Funds business decreased $97.7 million primarily due to a decline in distribution income and management fee income resulting from an equity market driven decrease in average account values in 2009 compared to 2008. Net investment income decreased primarily due to lower investment returns on invested assets and cash related to our more liquid investment strategy for the segment. Total Expenses Benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $282.3 million in our investment only business primarily due to our decision to scale back this business and lower variable crediting rates. In addition, our full service payout business benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $106.1 million primarily due to a decrease in the change in reserves resulting from lower sales of annuities with life contingencies. Furthermore, benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $96.9 million in our individual annuities business primarily due to a decrease in the change in reserves resulting from lower sales of annuities with life contingencies, partially offset by an increase in interest credited and an increase in benefit expense related to a growing block of fixed annuities. Operating expenses in our full service accumulation business decreased $104.2 million primarily due to a decrease in DPAC amortization related to favorable true up impacts from equity markets in 2009 compared to unfavorable true up impacts from equity markets in 2008, which was partially offset by an increase in employee defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit costs. To a lesser extent, a decrease in expenses due to expense savings initiatives and lower fees paid to advisors, which resulted from a decrease in average account values, contributed to the decline in operating expenses in our full service accumulation business. In addition, operating expenses within Principal Funds decreased $87.5 million primarily due to lower commission expense and fees paid to advisors resulting from a decrease in average account values. Furthermore, operating expenses in our individual annuities business decreased $46.3 million primarily due to a decrease in DPAC amortization related to favorable true up impacts from equity markets in 2009 compared to unfavorable true up impacts from equity markets in 2008. Also, to a lesser extent, a decrease in non deferred commission expense resulting from a decline in sales of annuities with life contingencies contributed to the decrease in operating expenses within our individual annuities business. 46 Table of Contents Income Taxes The effective income tax rates for the segment were 22% and 21% for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The effective income tax rates were lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily as a result of income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received and the interest exclusion from taxable income. Principal Global Investors Segment Principal Global Investors Trends Our overall AUM increased $14.8 billion in 2010 primarily due to improved market performance. While we have continued to experience success in winning institutional asset management mandates and other client deposits, we have also continued to see client withdrawals driven by portfolio rebalancing and asset allocation strategies and client mergers. The following table provides a summary of Principal Global Investors affiliated and third party AUM as of the periods indicated: Principal Global Investors As of Affiliated AUM Third party AUM Total AUM (in billions) December 31, 2010 $ 141.4 $ 78.7 $ 220.1 December 31, 2009 131.5 73.8 205.3 December 31, 2008 119.7 70.3 190.0 Principal Global Investors Segment Summary Financial Data AUM is a key indicator of earnings growth for our Principal Global Investors segment, as AUM is the base by which we generate revenues. Net cash flow and market performance are the two main drivers of AUM growth. Net cash flow reflects our ability to attract and retain client deposits. Market performance reflects equity, fixed income and real estate market performance. The percentage growth in earnings of the segment will generally track with the percentage growth in AUM. This trend may vary due to changes in business and or product mix. The following table presents the AUM rollforward for assets managed by Principal Global Investors for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in billions) AUM, beginning of period $ 205.3 $ 190.0 $ 236.0 Net cash flow (1) (7.0 ) (7.7 ) 3.3 Investment performance 22.3 28.5 (46.0 ) Operations disposed (2) (3.8 ) Other (0.5 ) (1.7 ) (3.3 ) AUM, end of period $ 220.1 $ 205.3 $ 190.0 (1)Includes net cash flow of $(3.7) billion and $(5.2) billion for the year ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, resulting from the Retirement and Investor Services segments decision to scale back its investment only business. (2)Includes disposition of certain asset management contracts within Post Advisory Group, LLC in 2009. The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the Principal Global Investors segment for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, Increase (decrease) 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Operating revenues: Fees and other revenues $ 467.2 $ 429.2 $ 577.3 $ 38.0 $ (148.1 ) Net investment income 14.2 10.2 21.2 4.0 (11.0 ) Total operating revenues 481.4 439.4 598.5 42.0 (159.1 ) Expenses: Total expenses 384.2 375.6 442.9 8.6 (67.3 ) Operating earnings before income taxes 97.2 63.8 155.6 33.4 (91.8 ) Income taxes 33.7 21.0 50.9 12.7 (29.9 ) Operating earnings attributable to noncontrolling interest 5.0 4.6 10.3 0.4 (5.7 ) Operating earnings $ 58.5 $ 38.2 $ 94.4 $ 20.3 $ (56.2 ) 47 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 Operating Earnings Operating earnings increased primarily due to higher fee revenues driven by an increase in average AUM as a result of continued market improvement since the latter half of 2009. In addition, operating earnings increased due to higher borrower fees from our real estate business resulting from higher transaction volumes and higher servicing fees. Operating Revenues Fees increased primarily due to an increase in average AUM as well as higher borrower fees from our real estate business. Net investment income increased primarily due to losses in our equity method investment in 2009 with very little activity in 2010. Total Expenses Total expenses increased primarily due to higher staff related costs resulting from higher compensation expense, which was partially offset by lower intangible amortization expense as certain intangibles were fully amortized as of December 31, 2009. Income Taxes The effective income tax rates for the segment were 35% and 33% for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The effective income tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate for the year ended December 31, 2009, primarily due to inclusion of income attributable to noncontrolling interest in pre tax operating earnings with no corresponding change in income taxes reported by us as the controlling interest. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 Operating Earnings Operating earnings decreased primarily due to a decline in performance fee revenues. In addition, the severe downturn in global financial markets in the latter half of 2008 led to a significant reduction in our AUM and revenues relative to early 2008 levels and thus a reduction in 2009 operating earnings. Additionally, we sold certain asset management contracts to a non affiliated entity in the first quarter of 2009, resulting in lower fee revenues. These declines were offset in part by a series of expense management initiatives, which had been undertaken in response to the market downturn. Operating Revenues Fees decreased primarily due to a decrease in AUM as well as the 2009 sale of certain asset management contracts within Post Advisory Group, LLC. In addition, a performance fee was earned in the fourth quarter of 2008 related to performance delivered over the previous five years, with no corresponding fee earned in 2009. Borrower fees and real estate transaction fees decreased due to a decline in real estate activity. Net investment income decreased as a result of lower investment income earned on our loan portfolio and a decline in the interest rate environment. Total Expenses Total expenses decreased due to lower staff related costs resulting from lower head count, lower incentive compensation paid on performance fees due to a decrease in fees received in 2009 compared to 2008 and other expense management initiatives. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate for the segment was 33% for both the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. The effective income tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate, primarily due to inclusion of income attributable to noncontrolling interest in pre tax operating earnings with no corresponding change in income taxes reported by us as the controlling interest. Principal International Segment Principal International Trends Our Principal International businesses focus on countries with favorable demographics and growing long term savings and defined contribution markets. With variations depending upon the specific country, we have targeted these markets for sales of retirement and related products and services, including defined contribution pension plans, annuities and mutual funds to businesses and individuals. In some of our international markets, we complement our sales of these products with institutional asset management and life insurance accumulation products. We have pursued our international strategy through a combination of start ups, acquisitions and joint ventures, which require infusions of capital consistent with our strategy of long term growth and profitability. 48  Table of Contents Principal International Segment Summary Financial Data AUM is a key indicator of earnings growth for the segment, as AUM is the base by which we can generate local currency profits. Net customer cash flow and market performance are the two main drivers of local currency AUM growth. Net customer cash flow reflects our ability to attract and retain client deposits. Market performance reflects the investment returns on our underlying AUM. The percentage growth or decline in the earnings of our Principal International segment will generally track with the percentage growth or decline in AUM. This trend may vary due to changes in business and or product mix. Our financial results are also impacted by fluctuations of the foreign currency to U.S. dollar exchange rates for the countries in which we have business. AUM of our foreign subsidiaries is translated into U.S. dollar equivalents at the end of the reporting period using the spot foreign exchange rates. Revenue and expenses for our foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollar equivalents at the average foreign exchange rates for the reporting period. The following table presents the Principal International segment AUM rollforward for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in billions) AUM, beginning of period $ 34.6 $ 23.1 $ 28.7 Net cash flow 4.7 3.2 1.0 Investment performance 4.1 4.0 (1.6 ) Effect of exchange rates 1.9 4.5 (5.0 ) Other 0.5 (0.2 ) AUM, end of period $ 45.8 $ 34.6 $ 23.1 The following table presents certain summary financial data of the Principal International segment for the years indicated: Increase (decrease) For the year ended December 31, 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Operating revenues: Premiums and other considerations $ 255.2 $ 239.1 $ 204.1 $ 16.1 $ 35.0 Fees and other revenues 147.7 116.0 123.1 31.7 (7.1 ) Net investment income 377.0 207.0 521.8 170.0 (314.8 ) Total operating revenues 779.9 562.1 849.0 217.8 (286.9 ) Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses 497.2 327.6 586.6 169.6 (259.0 ) Operating expenses 145.1 115.2 152.5 29.9 (37.3 ) Total expenses 642.3 442.8 739.1 199.5 (296.3 ) Operating earnings before income taxes 137.6 119.3 109.9 18.3 9.4 Income taxes (benefits) (0.4 ) 0.5 (14.5 ) (0.9 ) 15.0 Operating earnings (losses) attributable to noncontrolling interest 1.1 (0.1 ) (1.9 ) 1.2 1.8 Operating earnings $ 136.9 $ 118.9 $ 126.3 $ 18.0 $ (7.4 ) Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 Operating Earnings Operating earnings increased primarily due to the strengthening of the Latin America currencies against the U.S. dollar, higher investment returns on assets not backing segment insurance products as a result of inflation in Chile during 2010 compared to deflation in 2009 and higher fee revenues driven by higher average AUM as a result of net customer cash flows and market performance. These increases were partially offset by 2009 expense savings initiatives to align with 2009 revenues and lower earnings in our equity method investment in Brazil as a result of the reduction in our economic interest. Operating Revenues Premiums in Chile increased $15.7 million primarily due to the strengthening of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar, which was partially offset by lower sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies. Fees and other revenues in Mexico and Chile collectively increased $25.5 million primarily due to higher investment management fees driven by higher average AUM as a result of local market performance and net customer cash flows. In addition, fees and other revenues increased due to the strengthening of the Latin American currencies against the U.S. dollar. 49 Table of Contents Net investment income in Chile increased $169.8 primarily due to higher inflation based investment returns on average invested assets and cash as a result of inflation in 2010 compared to deflation in 2009 and the strengthening of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar. Total Expenses Benefits, claims and settlement expenses in Chile increased $166.8 million primarily due to higher inflation based interest crediting rates to customers and the strengthening of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar. Operating expenses increased primarily due to 2009 expense savings initiatives to align with 2009 revenues, higher DPAC amortization resulting from net unlocking and true up adjustments in Mexico and the strengthening of the Latin America currencies against the U.S. dollar. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate for the segment was 0% for both the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. The effective income tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to taxes on our share of earnings generated from our equity method investments. Specifically, our share of earnings generated from equity method investments, net of foreign taxes incurred, are reported within net investment income whereas any residual U.S. tax expense or benefit related to equity method investments is reported in income taxes. Lower tax rates of foreign jurisdictions also contributed to the lower effective income tax rate. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 Operating Earnings Operating earnings decreased primarily due to lower investment returns on assets not backing segment insurance products as a result of deflation in Chile during 2009 coupled with weakening currencies in Latin America. These decreases were partially offset by increased earnings in our equity method investment in Brazil as a result of higher fee revenues and realized investment gains coupled with expense savings initiatives for the segment in 2009. Operating Revenues Premiums in Chile increased $35.3 million primarily due to higher sales of single premium annuities with life contingencies in the first half of 2009, which was partially offset by the weakening of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar. Fees and other revenues in Mexico decreased $8.2 million primarily due to the weakening of the Mexican peso against the U.S. dollar, which was partially offset by higher investment management fees driven by higher AUM. Net investment income decreased in Chile primarily due to lower inflation based investment returns on average invested assets and cash as a result of deflation in 2009 and the weakening of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar. Total Expenses Benefits, claims and settlement expenses decreased $247.3 million in Chile, primarily due to lower inflation based interest crediting rates to customers, and the weakening of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar. Operating expenses decreased primarily due to expense savings efforts in 2009, the weakening of the Latin America currencies against the U.S. dollar, a reduction in fund expenses passed to our asset management company in India and lower PVFP and DPAC amortization resulting from net unlocking and true up adjustments in Mexico. Income Taxes The effective income tax rates for the segment were 0% and 13% for the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2009, was lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to taxes on our share of earnings generated from our equity method investments that are included in net investment income and the lower tax rates of foreign jurisdictions. The effective income tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2008, was lower than the U.S. statutory rate primarily due to additional U.S. foreign tax credits resulting from the second quarter 2008 enactment of legislation to increase the Brazilian tax rate, taxes on our share of earnings generated from our equity method investments being reflected in net investment income and the lower tax rates of foreign jurisdictions. The net increase in deferred tax liabilities associated with the 2008 enacted Brazilian income tax rate is reflected in net investment income because the equity method of accounting is applied to our Brazilian operations; however, the benefit from additional U.S. foreign tax credits is reflected in income tax expense, the result of which was a decrease to the effective income tax rate. 50 Table of Contents U.S. Insurance Solutions Segment Individual Life Insurance Trends Our life insurance premiums are influenced by both economic and industry trends. In addition, we continue to shift our marketing emphasis to universal life insurance products from traditional life insurance products. Due to this shift in marketing emphasis, premiums related to our traditional life insurance products have declined, while fee revenues from our universal and variable universal life insurance products have grown. The following table provides a summary of our individual universal and variable universal life insurance fee revenues and our individual traditional life insurance premiums for the years indicated: Universal and variable universal life insurance Traditional life insurance For the year ended Fee revenues Premiums (in millions) December 31, 2010 $ 382.5 $ 517.9 December 31, 2009 354.4 557.3 December 31, 2008 338.8 591.7 Specialty Benefits Insurance Trends Premium and fee growth for the individual disability line of our specialty benefits insurance business was driven by solid sales and retention. The group lines, however, experienced a decline between 2009 and 2010 due to decreases in membership of existing employer customers, as well as slightly lower sales as we maintained pricing discipline in a very competitive environment. The following table provides a summary of our specialty benefits insurance premium and fees for the years indicated: Premium and fees For the year ended Group dental and vision insurance Group life insurance Group disability insurance Individual disability insurance (in millions) December 31, 2010 $ 518.9 $ 315.0 $ 265.6 $ 196.5 December 31, 2009 539.9 333.2 290.8 181.6 December 31, 2008 557.3 348.2 303.5 172.6 U.S. Insurance Solutions Segment Summary Financial Data There are several key indicators for earnings growth in our U.S. Insurance Solutions business. The ability of our distribution channels to generate new sales and retain existing business drives growth in our block of business, premium revenue and fee revenues. Our earnings growth also depends on our ability to price our products at a level that enables us to earn a margin over the cost of providing benefits and the expense of acquiring and administering those products. Factors impacting pricing decisions include competitive conditions, persistency, our ability to assess and manage trends in mortality and morbidity and our ability to manage operating expenses. The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the U.S. Insurance Solutions segment for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, Increase (decrease) 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Operating revenues: Premiums and other considerations $ 1,685.7 $ 1,776.6 $ 1,866.3 $ (90.9 ) $ (89.7 ) Fees and other revenues 422.7 399.2 382.5 23.5 16.7 Net investment income 666.7 636.8 644.8 29.9 (8.0 ) Total operating revenues 2,775.1 2,812.6 2,893.6 (37.5 ) (81.0 ) Expenses: Benefits, claims and settlement expenses 1,718.0 1,651.2 1,635.8 66.8 15.4 Dividends to policyholders 218.4 239.4 265.7 (21.0 ) (26.3 ) Operating expenses 553.5 620.1 684.5 (66.6 ) (64.4 ) Total expenses 2,489.9 2,510.7 2,586.0 (20.8 ) (75.3 ) Operating earnings before income taxes 285.2 301.9 307.6 (16.7 ) (5.7 ) Income taxes 91.5 97.8 99.6 (6.3 ) (1.8 ) Operating earnings $ 193.7 $ 204.1 $ 208.0 $ (10.4 ) $ (3.9 ) 51 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 Operating Earnings Operating earnings in our U.S. Insurance Solutions segment decreased primarily due to lowering our long term interest rate assumptions, which impacted reserves, DPAC and other actuarial balances in our individual life insurance business. Operating Revenues Premiums decreased $47.3 million in our specialty benefits insurance business due to a decrease in membership driven by lapses exceeding sales during the first half of the year and a slight decline in existing case covered lives. Premiums decreased $43.6 million in our individual life insurance business primarily due to the expected continued decline from the decreasing block of traditional life insurance business. Fees and other revenues increased $25.7 million in our individual life insurance business due to growth in the universal life and variable universal life lines of business. Net investment income increased primarily due to an increase in average annualized investment yields and, to a lesser extent, an increase in average invested assets. Total Expenses Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $96.2 million in our individual life insurance business as a result of higher gross claims and larger increases in reserves. While a substantial amount of the higher gross claims are offset by the benefit of reinsurance, under U.S. GAAP we defer much of the benefit of reinsurance, which causes an increase in reported net benefits in the current period and lower DPAC amortization. Partially offsetting this increase in benefits, claims and settlement expenses was a decrease of $29.4 million in our specialty benefits insurance business due to a decrease in membership. Dividends to policyholders decreased $21.0 million, primarily from updating the policyholder dividend scale to reflect the experience of the Closed Block. Operating expenses decreased $55.4 million in our individual life insurance business primarily related to lower DPAC amortization, which was offset by a corresponding increase in gross claims. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate for the segment was 32% for both the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009. The effective income tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate as a result of the interest exclusion from taxable income and income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 Operating Earnings Operating earnings in our specialty benefits insurance business decreased $19.9 million, primarily due to an increase in employee defined benefit pension and other postretirement benefit costs and the adverse impacts of the economic environment on investment income and premium growth. In addition, this decrease was due to a favorable change in reserve assumptions related to our individual disability business in 2008, with no comparable change in 2009. The decrease in operating earnings for our specialty benefits insurance business was partially offset by a $16.0 million increase in our individual life insurance business due to lower DPAC amortization related to favorable true up impacts from equity markets in 2009 compared to unfavorable true up impacts from equity markets in 2008 and lower non deferred sales related expenses. Operating Revenues Premiums decreased $54.7 million in our individual life insurance business primarily due to the expected continued decline from the decreasing block of traditional life insurance business and an increase in reinsurance ceded on growing blocks of universal life and variable universal life insurance lines of business. Premiums decreased $35.0 million in our specialty benefits insurance business due to an increase in lapse rates in the first half of 2009, a decline in employment levels of our existing employer customers and a slight decrease in sales. Fees and other revenues increased $17.8 million in our individual life insurance business due to growth in the universal life and variable universal life lines of business. Net investment income decreased primarily due to lower investment returns on invested assets and cash related to our more liquid investment strategy for the segment. 52 Table of Contents Total Expenses Benefits, claims and settlement expenses increased $26.9 million in our individual life insurance business due to higher cost of interest credited related to growth in the universal life and variable universal life insurance lines of business and an increase in death benefit costs net of reinsurance. Partially offsetting this increase in benefits, claims and settlement expenses was an $11.5 million decrease in our specialty benefits insurance business due to a decrease in membership. Dividends to policyholders decreased $26.3 million, primarily from updating the policyholder dividend scale to reflect the experience of the Closed Block. Operating expenses decreased $60.3 million in our individual life insurance business primarily related to lower DPAC amortization and lower non deferred sales related expenses. Income Taxes The effective income tax rate for the segment was 32% for both the years ended December 31, 2009 and 2008. The effective income tax rate was lower than the U.S. statutory rate as a result of the interest exclusion from taxable income and income tax deductions allowed for corporate dividends received. Corporate Segment Corporate Segment Summary Financial Data The following table presents certain summary financial data relating to the Corporate segment for the years indicated: For the year ended December 31, Increase (decrease) 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Operating revenues: Total operating revenues $ (118.9 ) $ (143.4 ) $ (176.8 ) $ 24.5 $ 33.4 Expenses: Total expenses 38.0 33.4 (32.1 ) 4.6 65.5 Operating losses before income taxes and preferred stock dividends (156.9 ) (176.8 ) (144.7 ) 19.9 (32.1 ) Income tax benefits (61.4 ) (71.4 ) (62.3 ) 10.0 (9.1 ) Preferred stock dividends 33.0 33.0 33.0 Operating earnings (losses) attributable to noncontrolling interest 0.2 (0.1 ) 0.3 (0.1 ) Operating losses $ (128.7 ) $ (138.3 ) $ (115.4 ) $ 9.6 $ (22.9 ) Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 Operating Losses Operating losses decreased due to an increase in earnings on average invested assets for the segment, representing capital that has not been allocated to any other segment. This decrease was partially offset by higher interest expense on corporate debt. Income Taxes Income tax benefits decreased due to a decrease in operating loss before income taxes. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 Operating Losses Operating losses increased due to higher interest expense on corporate debt as a result of the issuance of debt in May 2009, which was partially offset by the maturity of corporate debt in August 2009. In addition, operating losses increased due to the release of state deferred income tax liabilities associated with the reorganization of certain subsidiaries in 2008 with no corresponding activity in 2009. Operating Revenues Operating revenues increased due to a decrease in inter segment eliminations included in this segment, which was offset by a corresponding change in total expenses. 53 Table of Contents Total Expenses Total expenses increased due to a decrease in inter segment eliminations included in this segment, which was offset by a corresponding change in operating revenues. In addition, total expenses increased due to higher interest expense on corporate debt as a result of the issuance of debt in May 2009, which was partially offset by the maturity of corporate debt in August 2009. Income Taxes Income tax benefits increased due to an increase in operating loss before income taxes. Partially offsetting the increased income tax benefits was the release of state deferred income tax liabilities associated with the reorganization of certain subsidiaries in 2008 with no corresponding activity in 2009. Liquidity and Capital Resources Liquidity and capital resources represent the overall strength of a company and its ability to generate strong cash flows, borrow funds at a competitive rate and raise new capital to meet operating and growth needs. Our legal entity structure has an impact on our ability to meet cash flow needs as an organization. Following is a simplified organizational structure. Liquidity Our liquidity requirements have been and will continue to be met by funds from consolidated operations as well as the issuance of commercial paper, common stock, debt or other capital securities and borrowings from credit facilities. We believe that cash flows from these sources are sufficient to satisfy the current liquidity requirements of our operations, including reasonably foreseeable contingencies. We maintain a level of cash and securities which, combined with expected cash inflows from investments and operations, is believed to be adequate to meet anticipated short term and long term payment obligations. We will continue our prudent capital management practice of regularly exploring options available to us to maximize capital flexibility, including accessing the capital markets and careful attention to and management of expenses. As of December 31, 2010, approximately $11.7 billion, or 98%, of our institutional guaranteed investment contracts and funding agreements cannot be redeemed by contractholders prior to maturity. Our life insurance and annuity liabilities contain provisions limiting early surrenders. Given market conditions, we maintained a historically high position of cash and cash equivalent holdings through much of 2009. As market conditions improved through 2010 we have been reducing our cash and cash equivalent holdings. Our liquidity is also supported by a portfolio of U.S. government and agency and residential pass through government backed securities, of which we held $4.3 billion as of December 31, 2010, that may be utilized to bolster our liquidity position, as collateral for secured borrowing transactions with various third parties or by disposing of the securities in the open market, if needed. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had short term credit facilities with various financial institutions in an aggregate amount of $719.8 million and $681.9 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, we had $107.9 million and $101.6 million, respectively, of outstanding borrowings related to our credit facilities, with $28.4 million of assets pledged as support as of December 31, 2010. None of these credit arrangements, other than our commercial paper back stop facility, are committed facilities. Due to the financial strength and the strong relationships we have with these providers, as well as the small size of these facilities, we are comfortable that there is a very low risk that the financial institutions would not be able to fund these facilities. As of both December 31, 2010 and 2009, our credit facilities included a $579.0 million commercial paper program, of which $50.0 million and $75.0 million was outstanding as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our commercial paper program has a back stop facility to provide 100% support for our commercial paper program, of which there were no outstanding balances as of December 31, 2010 and 2009. The back stop facility is a five year facility that matures in June 2012. The facility is supported by fourteen banks, most if not all of which have other relationships with us. We have no reason to believe that our current providers would be unable or unwilling to fund the facility if necessary. 54 Table of Contents The Holding Companies: Principal Financial Group, Inc. and Principal Financial Services, Inc. The principal sources of funds available to our parent holding company, PFG, to meet its obligations, including the payments of dividends on common stock, debt service and the repurchase of stock, are dividends from subsidiaries as well as its ability to borrow funds at competitive rates and raise capital to meet operating and growth needs. Dividends from Principal Life, our primary subsidiary, are limited by Iowa law. Under Iowa laws, Principal Life may pay dividends only from the earned surplus arising from its business and must receive the prior approval of the Insurance Commissioner of the State of Iowa ("the Commissioner") to pay stockholder dividends or make any other distribution if such distributions would exceed certain statutory limitations. Iowa law gives the Commissioner discretion to disapprove requests for distributions in excess of these limits. In general, the current statutory limitations are the greater of (i) 10% of Principal Lifes statutory policyholder surplus as of the previous year end or (ii) the statutory net gain from operations from the previous calendar year. Based on these limitations, Principal Life could distribute approximately $509.7 million in 2011. Principal Life could have paid approximately $608.7 million in statutory dividends in 2010 based on its 2009 statutory financial results without being subject to the limitations on payment of stockholder dividends. No dividends were paid as of December 31, 2010; however, on June 21, 2010, Principal Life distributed paid in and contributed surplus in the amount of $300.0 million to its parent company. Principal Life could have paid approximately $651.3 million in statutory dividends in 2009 based on its 2008 statutory financial results without being subject to the limitations on payment of stockholder dividends. On March 27, 2009, a $645.0 million ordinary dividend was paid by Principal Life to its parent company from internal sources of liquidity. Following our second quarter issuance of debt and equity, on May 20, 2009, a $500.0 million capital contribution was made to Principal Life from its parent company. An additional $300.0 million capital contribution was made to Principal Life from its parent company on December 31, 2009. Principal Life could have paid approximately $686.5 million in statutory dividends in 2008 based on its 2007 statutory financial results without being subject to the limitations on payment of stockholder dividends. Total stockholder dividends paid by Principal Life to its parent company in 2008 were $5.5 million, which consisted of a non cash dividend of an equity method investment. Operations. Our primary consolidated cash flow sources are premiums from insurance products, pension and annuity deposits, asset management fee revenues, administrative services fee revenues, income from investments and proceeds from the sales or maturity of investments. Cash outflows consist primarily of payment of benefits to policyholders and beneficiaries, income and other taxes, current operating expenses, payment of dividends to policyholders, payments in connection with investments acquired, payments made to acquire subsidiaries, payments relating to policy and contract surrenders, withdrawals, policy loans, interest expense and repayment of short term debt and long term debt. Our investment strategies are generally intended to provide adequate funds to pay benefits without forced sales of investments. For a discussion of our investment objectives, strategies and a discussion of duration matching, see "Investments" as well as Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate Risk." Cash Flows. Activity, as reported in our consolidated statements of cash flows, provides relevant information regarding our sources and uses of cash. The following discussion of our operating, investing and financing portions of the cash flows excludes cash flows attributable to the separate accounts. Net cash provided by operating activities was $ 2,791.7 million, $2,243.0 million and $2,224.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. As an insurance business, we typically generate positive cash flows from operating activities, as premiums collected from our insurance products and income received from our investments exceed policy acquisition costs, benefits paid, redemptions and operating expenses. These positive cash flows are then invested to support the obligations of our insurance products and required capital supporting these products. Our cash flows from operating activities are affected by the timing of premiums, fees, and investment income received and expenses paid. The increase in cash provided by operating activities in 2010 compared to 2009 was the result of increased cash flows from trading securities as well as an increase in fees and other revenue received. The increase in cash provided by operating activities in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily the result of fluctuations in receivables and payables associated with the timing of settlement, offset by a decline in premium, fees and other revenue received. Net cash provided by investing activities was $27.5 million and $1,026.8 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, compared to net cash used by investing activities of $2,917.2 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease in cash provided by investing activities in 2010 compared to 2009 was primarily due to an increase in net purchases of investments. The increase in cash provided by investing activities in 2009 compared to 2008 was primarily the result of an increase in net sales and maturities of investments as we were holding higher cash balances to cover potential near term obligations, given the challenging economic conditions that existed. Net cash used in financing activities was $3,182.2 million and $3,637.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, compared to net cash provided by financing activities of $1,956.0 million for the year ended December 31, 2008. The decrease in cash used in financing activities in 2010 compared to 2009 is primarily due to a decrease in net withdrawals of Principal Life general account investment contracts; net withdrawals were higher in 2009 primarily due to our decision to scale back our investment only business. Also contributing to the decrease in cash used in financing activities was net proceeds from short term debt in 2010 compared to net repayments of short term debt in 55 Table of Contents 2009. These increases were partially offset by cash received from the issuance of common stock and long term debt in 2009 with no corresponding activity in 2010. The increase in cash used in financing activities in 2009 compared to 2008 is primarily due to an increase in net withdrawals of Principal Life general account investment contracts, partially due to our decision to scale back our investment only business, as well as payments of short term debt in 2009, compared to proceeds from short term debt in 2008. This increase in cash used in financing activities was partially offset by the issuance of common stock and long term debt in 2009. Shelf Registration. We currently have an effective shelf registration which allows us the ability to issue, in unlimited amounts, unsecured senior debt securities or subordinated debt securities, junior subordinated debt, preferred stock, common stock, warrants, depository shares, stock purchase contracts and stock purchase units of PFG, trust preferred securities of three subsidiary trusts and guarantees by PFG of these trust preferred securities. Our wholly owned subsidiary, PFS, may guarantee, fully and unconditionally or otherwise, our obligations with respect to any non convertible securities, other than common stock, described in the shelf registration. In May 2009, we issued common stock and senior debt securities under the shelf registration. For information on senior notes issued from our shelf registration, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 9, Debt." Short Term Debt and Long Term Debt. For debt information, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 9, Debt." Stockholders Equity. Proceeds from the issuance of our common stock were $20.6 million, $1,123.0 million and $36.4 million in 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively. The following table summarizes our return of capital to common stockholders. For the year ended December 31, 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Dividends to stockholders $ 176.2 $ 159.5 $ 116.7 Repurchase of common stock 2.6 4.1 6.4 Total cash returned to stockholders $ 178.8 $ 163.6 $ 123.1 Number of shares repurchased 0.1 0.3 1.0 For additional stockholders equity information, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 13, Stockholders Equity." Capitalization The following table summarizes our capital structure. December 31, 2010 2009 (in millions) Debt: Short term debt $ 107.9 $ 101.6 Long term debt 1,583.7 1,584.6 Total debt 1,691.6 1,686.2 Stockholders equity: Equity excluding accumulated other comprehensive income 9,455.4 8,935.5 Total capitalization excluding accumulated other comprehensive income $ 11,147.0 $ 10,621.7 Debt to equity excluding accumulated other comprehensive income 18 % 19 % Debt to capitalization excluding accumulated other comprehensive income 15 % 16 % As of December 31, 2010, we had $821.6 million of excess capital, consisting of cash and highly liquid assets in the holding companies available for debt maturities, interest and preferred dividend expenses and other holding company obligations. We continue to maintain sufficient capital levels in Principal Life based on our current financial strength ratings. 56  Table of Contents Contractual Obligations The following table presents payments due by period for long term contractual obligations as of December 31, 2010. Payments due in year ending Contractual Obligations (1) Total Payments 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 and thereafter (in millions) Contractholder funds (2) $ 53,890.1 $ 6,656.3 $ 11,733.2 $ 7,506.6 $ 27,994.0 Future policy benefits and claims (3) 35,807.8 2,078.6 3,570.6 3,392.8 26,765.8 Long term debt (4) 1,583.7 5.4 12.5 508.9 1,056.9 Certificates of deposit (5) 984.4 626.9 289.1 68.1 0.3 Other long term liabilities (6) 1,945.2 1,792.4 44.8 31.0 77.0 Capital leases 4.4 3.0 1.4 Long term debt interest 1,635.4 115.1 229.3 174.2 1,116.8 Operating leases (7) 219.8 48.1 65.8 37.8 68.1 Purchase obligations (8) 145.3 130.2 9.8 5.3 Total contractual obligations $ 96,216.1 $ 11,456.0 $ 15,956.5 $ 11,724.7 $ 57,078.9 (1)Excludes short term liabilities, other policyholder funds, taxes and short term debt as these are not long term and or not contractual in nature. Also excludes obligations under our pension and other postretirement benefit plans as we do not anticipate contributions will be needed to satisfy the minimum funding requirements of ERISA for our qualified pension plan. In addition, separate account liabilities are excluded. Separate account liabilities represent the fair market value of funds that are separately administered by us. Generally, the separate account contract owner, rather than us, bears the investment risk of these funds. The separate account liabilities are legally segregated and are not subject to claims that arise out of any other business of ours. Net deposits, net investment income and realized and unrealized capital gains and losses on the separate accounts are not reflected in the consolidated statements of operations. The separate account obligations will be fully funded by cash flows from the separate account assets. (2)Includes GICs, funding agreements, individual fixed annuities, universal life insurance and other investment type contracts. See Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 8, Insurance Liabilities" for additional information. Amounts included in the contractholder funds line item reflect estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders. The sum of the cash outflows shown for all years in the table exceeds the corresponding liability amount included in our consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2010. The liability amount in our consolidated statements of financial position reflects either the account value (in the case of individual fixed annuities, universal life insurance and GICs) or the par value plus accrued interest and other adjustments (in the case of funding agreements and other investment contracts). (3)Amounts included in the future policy benefits and claims line item reflect estimated cash payments to be made to policyholders. The sum of the cash outflows shown for all years in the table exceeds the corresponding liability amount included in our consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2010. The liability amount in our consolidated statements of financial position reflects estimated cash payments to policyholders, reductions for expected future premiums, assumptions with regard to the timing of cash payments and discounting for interest. (4)For long term debt information, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 9, Debt." (5)Amounts included in the certificates of deposit line item reflect estimated cash payments to be made, including expected interest payments. Certificates of deposit are reported as other liabilities on our consolidated statements of financial position. (6)Other long term liabilities include other liabilities reflected in the consolidated statements of financial position that are contractual, non cancelable and long term in nature. The total payments primarily relate to checking and savings deposits as well as premium associated with purchased option contracts where payments are made over the life of the contract. This line item excludes accruals, short term items and items not contractual in nature. (7)As a lessee, we lease office space, data processing equipment and office furniture and equipment under various operating leases. (8)Purchase obligations include material contracts where we have a non cancelable commitment to purchase goods and services in addition to commitments to originate loans and purchase investments. Pension and Other Postretirement Plan Funding We have defined benefit pension plans covering substantially all of our U.S. employees and certain agents. See Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 11, Employee and Agent Benefits" for a complete discussion of these plans and their effect on the consolidated financial statements. We report the net funded status of our pension and other postretirement plans in the consolidated statements of financial position. The net funded status represents the differences between the fair value of plan assets and the projected benefit obligation for pension plans and other postretirement plans. The measurement of the net funded status can vary based upon the fluctuations in the fair value of the plan assets and the actuarial assumptions used for the plans as discussed below. The net underfunded status of the pension and other postretirement benefit obligation at December 31, 2010, was $207.0 million pre tax, an improvement of $278.7 million from a net underfunded status of $485.7 million pre tax at December 31, 2009. Nonqualified pension plan assets are not included as part of the funding status mentioned above. The nonqualified pension plan assets are held in Rabbi trusts for the benefit of all nonqualified plan participants. The assets held in a Rabbi trust are available to satisfy the claims of general creditors only in the event of bankruptcy. 57 Table of Contents Therefore, these assets are fully consolidated in our consolidated statements of financial position and are not reflected in our funded status as they do not qualify as plan assets under U.S. GAAP. The market value of assets held in these trusts was $265.3 million and $245.1 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Our funding policy for the qualified pension plan is to fund the plan annually in an amount at least equal to the minimum annual contributions required under ERISA and, generally, not greater than the maximum amount that can be deducted for federal income tax purposes. We do not anticipate contributions will be needed to satisfy the minimum funding requirements of ERISA for our qualified pension plan. At this time, it is too early to estimate the amount that may be contributed, but it is possible that we may fund the plans in 2011 in the range of $60 $90 million. This includes funding for both our qualified and nonqualified pension plans. We may contribute to our other postretirement benefit plans in 2011 pending further analysis. Contractual Commitments In connection with our banking business, we make additional commitments to extend credit, which are agreements to lend to a customer as long as there is no violation of any conditions established in the contract. Commitments generally have fixed expiration dates or other termination clauses and may require payment of a fee. A majority of these commitments are lines of credit and are expected to expire without being drawn upon. Therefore, the total commitment amounts do not necessarily represent future cash funding requirements. We evaluate each customers creditworthiness on a case by case basis. The total commitments to fund loans were $55.5 million as of December 31, 2010. We have made commitments to fund certain limited partnerships in which we are a limited partner. As of December 31, 2010, the amount of unfunded commitments was $50.3 million. We are only required to fund additional equity under these commitments when called upon to do so by the general partner; therefore, these commitments are not liabilities on our consolidated statements of financial position. Off Balance Sheet Arrangements Variable Interest Entities. We have relationships with various types of special purpose entities and other entities where we have a variable interest as described in Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 3, Variable Interest Entities." We do not have a direct or contingent obligation related to our unconsolidated variable interest entities ("VIE"). Guarantees and Indemnifications. For guarantee and indemnification information, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 12, Contingencies, Guarantees and Indemnifications" under the caption, "Guarantees and Indemnifications." Financial Strength Rating and Credit Ratings Our ratings are influenced by the relative ratings of our peers/competitors as well as many other factors including our operating and financial performance, asset quality, liquidity, asset/liability management, overall portfolio mix, financial leverage (i.e., debt), risk exposures, operating leverage, ratings and other factors. NRSROs publish financial strength ratings on U.S. life insurance companies that are indicators of an insurance companys ability to meet contractholder and policyholder obligations. NRSROs also assign credit ratings on non life insurance entities, such as PFG and PFS. Credit ratings are indicators of a debt issuers ability to meet the terms of debt obligations in a timely manner, and are important factors in overall funding profile and ability to access external capital. Such ratings are not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities. Ratings are subject to revision or withdrawal at any time by the assigning NRSRO. Each of A.M. Best Company, Inc., Fitch Rating Ltd., Moodys Investors Service and Standard & Poors revised its outlook for the U.S. life insurance sector to negative from stable in mid to late 2008. During 2010, each of the four agencies revised its outlook to stable from negative. Each rating agency indicates there are positive signs for the U.S. life insurance sector, however, they also indicate a belief that the economic recovery will be slow moving, will hamper earnings recovery and will create potential for further credit losses, particularly in the commercial and residential mortgage asset classes. Despite the stable outlook, a lingering result of the challenging economic conditions over the last few years has been changes in benchmarks for capital, liquidity, earnings and other factors used by these NRSROs that are critical to a ratings assignment at a particular rating level. In December 2010, Standard & Poors affirmed Principal Life and Principal National ratings and changed the outlook to positive from stable; A.M. Best affirmed ratings and changed the outlook to stable from negative. In December 2010, Fitch affirmed Principal Life and Principal National ratings, although the outlook remains negative. The rating affirmations and positive outlook changes are reflective of the rating agencies positive view on our financial strength. There is still some concern, as reflected by the continuing negative outlook on our ratings by Fitch, about the potential impact of the economic conditions on our direct commercial and commercial mortgage backed securities ("CMBS") holdings. 58 Table of Contents The following table summarizes our significant financial strength and debt ratings from the major independent rating organizations. The debt ratings shown are indicative ratings. Outstanding issuances are rated the same as indicative ratings unless otherwise noted. Actual ratings can differ from indicative ratings based on contractual terms. A.M. Best Fitch Standard & Poors Moodys Principal Financial Group Senior Unsecured Debt (1) BBB Baa1 Preferred Stock (2) BB+ Baa3 Principal Financial Services Senior Unsecured Debt BBB Commercial Paper F 1 A 2 P 2 Principal Life Insurance Company Insurer Financial Strength A+ AA A Aa3 Enterprise Risk Management Rating Strong Principal National Life Insurance Company Insurer Financial Strength A+ AA A Aa3 (1)Moodys has rated Principal Financial Groups senior debt issuance "A3" (2)S&P has rated Principal Financial Groups preferred stock issuance "BB" Impacts of Income Taxes For income tax information, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 10, Income Taxes." Fair Value Measurement Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (an exit price). The fair value hierarchy prioritizes the inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value into three levels for disclosure purposes. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority (Level 1) to quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities and gives the lowest priority (Level 3) to unobservable inputs. An asset or liabilitys classification within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of significant input to its valuation. See Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 14, Fair Value Measurements" for further details, including a reconciliation of changes in Level 3 fair value measurements. As of December 31, 2010, 43% of our net assets (liabilities) were Level 1, 53% were Level 2 and 4% were Level 3. Excluding separate account assets as of December 31, 2010, 2% of our net assets (liabilities) were Level 1, 96% were Level 2 and 2% were Level 3. As of December 31, 2009, 37% of our net assets (liabilities) were Level 1, 58% were Level 2 and 5% were Level 3. Excluding separate account assets as of December 31, 2009, 3% of our net assets (liabilities) were Level 1, 95% were Level 2 and 2% were Level 3. Changes in Level 3 fair value measurements Net assets (liabilities) measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) as of December 31, 2010, were $4,691.4 million as compared to $5,276.5 million as of December 31, 2009. The decrease is primarily related to fixed maturities, available for sale and separate account assets. The decrease in fixed maturities, available for sale is primarily the result of our obtaining prices from third party pricing vendors versus relying on broker quotes or internal pricing models for certain structured securities, resulting in the transfer of those assets out of Level 3 to Level 2. Another large component of the decrease is the result of sales and settlements of certain corporate and structured securities. Additionally, as a result of our implementation of new authoritative guidance related to the accounting for embedded credit derivatives effective July 1, 2010, within the scope of the guidance we reclassified certain securities previously included in fixed maturities, available for sale, to fixed maturities, trading. The decrease in separate account assets is primarily a result of real estate sales. These decreases are partially offset by a net increase in fair value of Level 3 instruments related to the implementation of new authoritative guidance related to the accounting for VIEs effective January 1, 2010. As a result of the new guidance, certain previously unconsolidated VIEs were consolidated and certain previously consolidated VIEs were deconsolidated. The fair value of Level 3 assets and liabilities of the newly consolidated and deconsolidated VIEs is primarily included in the net change for fixed maturities, trading; other investments; derivative liabilities and other liabilities. Net assets (liabilities) measured at fair value on a recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3) as of December 31, 2009, were $5,276.5 million as compared to $7,002.0 million as of December 31, 2008. The decrease is primarily attributed to separate account assets. The decrease in separate account assets is primarily a result of unrealized losses on real estate. Unrealized losses on separate accounts do not impact net income in the consolidated statements of operations, as the change in value of separate account assets is offset by a change in value of separate account liabilities. 59 Table of Contents Investments We had total consolidated assets as of December 31, 2010, of $145.6 billion, of which $66.0 billion were invested assets. The rest of our total consolidated assets are comprised primarily of separate account assets for which we do not bear investment risk. Because we generally do not bear any investment risk on assets held in separate accounts, the discussion and financial information below does not include such assets. Overall Composition of Invested Assets Invested assets as of December 31, 2010, were predominantly high quality and broadly diversified across asset class, individual credit, industry and geographic location. Asset allocation is determined based on cash flow and the risk/return requirements of our products. As shown in the following table, the major categories of invested assets are fixed maturities and commercial mortgage loans. The remainder is invested in residential mortgage loans, real estate, equity securities and other assets. In addition, policy loans are included in our invested assets. December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Carrying amount % of total Carrying amount % of total ($ in millions) Fixed maturities: Public $ 35,426.8 54 % $ 33,719.6 53 % Private 14,329.8 22 13,533.4 21 Equity securities 486.8 1 435.5 1 Mortgage loans: Commercial 9,609.0 14 10,129.3 16 Residential 1,516.1 2 1,716.3 2 Real estate held for sale 51.9 35.4 Real estate held for investment 1,011.6 2 999.2 2 Policy loans 903.9 1 902.5 1 Other investments 2,641.6 4 2,465.3 4 Total invested assets 65,977.5 100 % 63,936.5 100 % Cash and cash equivalents 1,877.4 2,240.4 Total invested assets and cash $ 67,854.9 $ 66,176.9 Investment Results Net Investment Income The following table presents the yield and investment income, excluding net realized capital gains and losses, for our invested assets for the years indicated. We calculate annualized yields using a simple average of asset classes at the beginning and end of the reporting period. The yields for fixed maturities and equity securities are calculated using amortized cost and cost, respectively. All other yields are calculated using carrying amounts. For the year ended December 31, Increase (decrease) 2010 2009 2008 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount Yield Amount ($ in millions) Fixed maturities 5.7 % $ 2,794.7 5.6 % $ 2,717.2 6.5 % $ 3,105.8 0.1 % $ 77.5 (0.9 )% $ (388.6 ) Equity securities 3.0 14.2 4.2 19.3 3.6 18.9 (1.2 ) (5.1 ) 0.6 0.4 Mortgage loans commercial 6.0 589.1 5.8 617.7 6.1 666.8 0.2 (28.6 ) (0.3 ) (49.1 ) Mortgage loans residential 5.2 84.2 4.0 71.2 8.3 154.8 1.2 13.0 (4.3 ) (83.6 ) Real estate 5.5 57.5 3.7 35.9 6.1 54.6 1.8 21.6 (2.4 ) (18.7 ) Policy loans 6.7 60.9 6.9 62.0 6.6 58.3 (0.2 ) (1.1 ) 0.3 3.7 Cash and cash equivalents 0.4 7.2 0.5 13.0 2.9 57.0 (0.1 ) (5.8 ) (2.4 ) (44.0 ) Other investments (0.9 ) (21.8 ) (0.9 ) (24.0 ) 0.9 21.8 2.2 (1.8 ) (45.8 ) Total before investment expenses 5.3 3,586.0 5.1 3,512.3 6.1 4,138.0 0.2 73.7 (1.0 ) (625.7 ) Investment expenses (0.1 ) (89.5 ) (0.1 ) (111.5 ) (0.2 ) (143.7 ) 22.0 0.1 32.2 Net investment income 5.2 % $ 3,496.5 5.0 % $ 3,400.8 5.9 % $ 3,994.3 0.2 % $ 95.7 (0.9 )% $ (593.5 ) Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 Net investment income increased primarily due to higher inflation based investment returns on average invested assets, most notably fixed maturities, related to inflation in Chile during 2010 versus deflation during 2009 and the strengthening of the Chilean peso against the U.S. dollar. In addition, net investment income increased due to gains on sales of equity real estate. These increases were partially offset by a decrease in average invested assets due to our decision to scale back our investment only business. 60 Table of Contents Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 Net investment income on fixed maturities decreased primarily due to lower inflation based investment returns related to deflation in Chile during 2009, lower yields on floating rate investments supporting floating rate liabilities and a decrease in average invested assets. In addition, net investment income on mortgage loans residential decreased primarily due to deflation in Chile during 2009. Net Realized Capital Gains (Losses) The following table presents the contributors to net realized capital gains and losses for our invested assets for the years indicated. Increase (decrease) For the year ended December 31, 2010 vs. 2009 2009 vs. 2008 2010 2009 2008 (in millions) Fixed maturities, available for sale credit impairments (1) $ (229.0 ) $ (372.6 ) $ (411.0 ) $ 143.6 $ 38.4 Fixed maturities, available for sale other 8.9 52.9 23.1 (44.0 ) 29.8 Fixed maturities, trading 17.5 49.3 (61.7 ) (31.8 ) 111.0 Equity securities credit impairments 3.7 (20.5 ) (47.3 ) 24.2 26.8 Derivatives and related hedge activities (2) 30.8 (11.5 ) (36.1 ) 42.3 24.6 Commercial mortgages (53.0 ) (120.1 ) (44.3 ) 67.1 (75.8 ) Other gains (losses) 29.6 24.2 (116.8 ) 5.4 141.0 Net realized capital gains (losses) $ (191.5 ) $ (398.3 ) $ (694.1 ) $ 206.8 $ 295.8 (1)Includes credit impairments as well as losses on sales of fixed maturities to reduce credit risk, net of realized credit recoveries on the sale of previously impaired securities. Credit gains on sales, excluding associated foreign currency fluctuations that are included in derivatives and related hedge activities, were a net gain of $15.0 million and $57.3 for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. There were no credit gains on sales for the year ended December 31, 2008. (2)Includes fixed maturities, available for sale impairment related net gains of $0.1 million and net losses of $2.8 million and $21.0 million for 2010, 2009 and 2008, respectively, which were hedged by derivatives reflected in this line. Year Ended December 31, 2010 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2009 Net realized capital losses on fixed maturities, available for sale credit impairments decreased primarily due to lower impairments on corporate securities as a result of improved market conditions and lower net credit losses on sales in 2010 relative to 2009 due to our decision to reduce exposure to BBB rated securities in 2009, partially offset by increased impairments on commercial mortgage backed securities. Net realized capital gains on fixed maturities, available for sale other decreased due to lower gains on sales in 2010. Net realized capital gains on fixed maturities, trading decreased due to lower mark to market gains on these securities resulting from market liquidity impacts and larger credit spread tightening in 2009 compared to 2010. Net realized capital gains on derivatives and related hedge activities increased due to decreased losses on the GMWB embedded derivatives resulting from changes in the spread reflecting our own creditworthiness. These decreased losses were partially offset by lower gains from fair value hedge ineffectiveness, decreased gains on credit default swaps due to changes in credit spreads and increased mark to market losses on interest rate swaps due to changes in interest rates. Net realized capital losses on commercial mortgages decreased due to a lower valuation allowance provision in 2010 than in 2009. For additional information, see "Commercial Mortgage Loan Valuation Allowance." Other net realized capital gains included an $80.1 million gain in the second quarter of 2010 resulting from the signing of our Shareholders Agreement with Banco pertaining to our Brasilprev joint venture. This gain was offset by a $64.7 million increase in our residential mortgage loan loss provision for our Bank and Trust Services business, which primarily related to the continued deterioration in our home equity portfolio resulting from sustained economic stress. Year Ended December 31, 2009 Compared to Year Ended December 31, 2008 Net realized capital losses on fixed maturities, available for sale credit impairments decreased and net realized capital gains on fixed maturities, available for sale other increased as a result of actions to reduce asset ratings drift risk by selling and tendering certain securities. Net realized capital gains on fixed maturities, trading increased due to mark to market gains versus losses on these securities, resulting from narrowing credit spreads and improvement in market liquidity during the second, third and fourth quarters of 2009. Net realized capital losses on derivatives and related hedge activities decreased due to gains versus losses from credit default swaps due to changes in credit spreads, fair value hedge ineffectiveness and mark to market adjustments on derivatives in our Principal International segment primarily due to changes in foreign currency. These decreased losses 61 Table of Contents were offset by net losses versus gains on the GMWB embedded derivative and associated hedging instruments primarily resulting from changes in the spread reflecting our own creditworthiness. Net realized capital losses on commercial mortgages increased primarily due to increases in the valuation allowance, reflecting a continued decline in the real estate market. Other net realized capital gains increased due to gains versus losses on the mark to market of equity securities classified as trading and certain seed money investments due to improvement in the equity market in 2009. U.S. Investment Operations Of our invested assets, $60.6 billion were held by our U.S. operations as of December 31, 2010. Our U.S. invested assets are managed primarily by our Principal Global Investors segment. Our primary investment objective is to maximize after tax returns consistent with acceptable risk parameters. We seek to protect policyholders benefits by optimizing the risk/return relationship on an ongoing basis, through asset/liability matching, reducing the credit risk, avoiding high levels of investments that may be redeemed by the issuer, maintaining sufficiently liquid investments and avoiding undue asset concentrations through diversification. We are exposed to three primary sources of investment risk: credit risk, relating to the uncertainty associated with the continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments of principal and interest; interest rate risk, relating to the market price and or cash flow variability associated with changes in market yield curves and equity risk, relating to adverse fluctuations in a particular common stock, which we have limited exposure to in our portfolio. Our ability to manage credit risk is essential to our business and our profitability. We devote considerable resources to the credit analysis of each new investment. We manage credit risk through industry, issuer and asset class diversification. Our Investment Committee, appointed by our Board of Directors, is responsible for establishing all investment policies and approving or authorizing all investments, except the Executive Committee of the Board must approve any investment transaction exceeding $500.0 million. As of December 31, 2010, there are nine members on the Investment Committee, one of whom is a member of our Board of Directors. The remaining members are senior management members representing various areas of our company. We also seek to reduce call or prepayment risk arising from changes in interest rates in individual investments. We limit our exposure to investments that are prepayable without penalty prior to maturity at the option of the issuer and we require additional yield on these investments to compensate for the risk that the issuer will exercise such option. We assess option risk in all investments we make and, when we take that risk, we price for it accordingly. Our Fixed Income Securities Committee, consisting of fixed income securities senior management members, approves the credit rating for the fixed maturities we purchase. Teams of security analysts, organized by industry, analyze and monitor these investments. In addition, we have teams who specialize in residential mortgage backed securities ("RMBS"), CMBS, asset backed securities ("ABS") and below investment grade securities. Our analysts monitor issuers held in the portfolio on a continuous basis with a formal review documented annually or more frequently if material events affect the issuer. The analysis includes both fundamental and technical factors. The fundamental analysis encompasses both quantitative and qualitative analysis of the issuer. The qualitative analysis includes an assessment of both accounting and management aggressiveness of the issuer. In addition, technical indicators such as stock price volatility and credit default swap levels are monitored. Our Fixed Income Securities Committee also reviews private transactions on a continuous basis to assess the quality ratings of our privately placed investments. We regularly review our investments to determine whether we should re rate them, employing the following criteria: material declines in the issuers revenues or margins; significant management or organizational changes; significant uncertainty regarding the issuers industry; debt service coverage or cash flow ratios that fall below industry specific thresholds; violation of financial covenants and other business factors that relate to the issuer. A dedicated risk management team is responsible for centralized monitoring of the commercial mortgage loan portfolio. We apply a variety of strategies to minimize credit risk in our commercial mortgage loan portfolio. When considering the origination of new commercial mortgage loans, we review the cash flow fundamentals of the property, make a physical assessment of the underlying security, conduct a comprehensive market analysis and compare against industry lending practices. We use a proprietary risk rating model to evaluate all new and substantially all existing loans within the portfolio. The proprietary risk model is designed to stress projected cash flows under simulated economic and 62 Table of Contents market downturns. Our lending guidelines are typically 65% or less loan to value ratios and a debt service coverage ratio of at least 1.5 times. We analyze investments outside of these guidelines based on cash flow quality, tenancy and other factors. The weighted average loan to value ratio at origination for new brick and mortar commercial mortgages, excluding Principal Global Investors segment mortgages, in our portfolio was 44% and 52% as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The debt service coverage ratio at loan inception for new brick and mortar commercial mortgages, excluding Principal Global Investors segment mortgages, in our portfolio was 3.5 and 2.0 times as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The weighted average loan to value ratio for loans held in our brick and mortar commercial mortgage portfolio, excluding Principal Global Investors segment mortgages, was 66% and 69% as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The debt service coverage ratio for loans held in our brick and mortar commercial mortgage portfolio, excluding Principal Global Investors segment mortgages, was 1.8 times as of both December 31, 2010 and 2009. Our investment decisions and objectives are a function of the underlying risks and product profiles of each primary business operation. In addition, we diversify our product portfolio offerings to include products that contain features that will protect us against fluctuations in interest rates. Those features include adjustable crediting rates, policy surrender charges and market value adjustments on liquidations. For further information on our management of interest rate risk, see Item 7A. "Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Interest Rate Risk." Overall Composition of U.S. Invested Assets As shown in the following table, the major categories of U.S. invested assets are fixed maturities and commercial mortgage loans. The remainder is invested in other investments, real estate, residential mortgage loans and equity securities. In addition, policy loans are included in our invested assets. The following discussion analyzes the composition of U.S. invested assets, but excludes invested assets of the separate accounts. December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Carrying amount % of total Carrying amount % of total ($ in millions) Fixed maturities: Public $ 31,956.6 53 % $ 30,952.5 52 % Private 14,329.8 24 13,533.4 23 Equity securities 424.1 1 388.8 1 Mortgage loans: Commercial 9,599.6 16 10,121.8 17 Residential 877.5 1 1,128.7 2 Real estate held for sale 41.6 23.8 Real estate held for investment 1,010.7 2 998.4 2 Policy loans 879.7 1 881.3 1 Other investments 1,486.3 2 1,480.2 2 Total invested assets 60,605.9 100 % 59,508.9 100 % Cash and cash equivalents 1,817.2 2,192.3 Total invested assets and cash $ 62,423.1 $ 61,701.2 Fixed Maturities Fixed maturities consist of publicly traded and privately placed bonds, asset backed securities, redeemable preferred stock and certain nonredeemable preferred stock. Included in the privately placed category as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, were $8.7 billion and $7.4 billion, respectively, of securities subject to certain holding periods and resale restrictions pursuant to Rule 144A of the Securities Act of 1933. Fixed maturities include trading portfolios that support investment strategies that involve the active and frequent purchase and sale of fixed maturities. We held $274.9 million and $348.1 million of these trading securities as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Fixed maturities were diversified by category of issuer, as shown in the following table for the periods indicated. December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Carrying amount % of total Carrying amount % of total ($ in millions) U.S. government and agencies $ 929.1 2 % $ 781.9 2 % States and political subdivisions 2,826.9 6 2,218.2 5 Non U.S. governments 424.2 1 462.4 1 Corporate public 19,201.2 41 19,182.8 43 Corporate private 12,065.1 26 11,604.7 26 Residential pass through securities 3,379.5 7 3,367.7 7 Commercial mortgage backed securities 3,847.3 9 3,602.9 8 Residential collateralized mortgage obligations 1,435.4 3 1,172.4 3 Asset backed securities 2,177.7 5 2,092.9 5 Total fixed maturities $ 46,286.4 100 % $ 44,485.9 100 % 63 Table of Contents We believe that it is desirable to hold residential mortgage backed pass through securities due to their credit quality and liquidity as well as portfolio diversification characteristics. Our portfolio is comprised of Government National Mortgage Association, Federal National Mortgage Association and Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation pass through securities. In addition, our residential collateralized mortgage obligation portfolio offers structural features that allow cash flows to be matched to our liabilities. CMBS provide varying levels of credit protection, diversification and reduced event risk depending on the securities owned and composition of the loan pool. CMBS are predominantly comprised of large pool securitizations that are diverse by property type, borrower and geographic dispersion. The risks to any CMBS deal are determined by the credit quality of the underlying loans and how those loans perform over time. Another key risk is the vintage of the underlying loans and the state of the markets during a particular vintage. In the CMBS market, there is a material difference in the outlook for the performance of loans originated in 2005 and earlier relative to loans originated in 2006 through 2008. For loans originated prior to 2006, underwriting assumptions were more conservative regarding required debt service coverage and loan to value ratios. For the 2006 through 2008 vintages, real estate values peaked and the underwriting expectations were that values would continue to increase, which makes those loan values more sensitive to market declines. We purchase ABS to diversify the overall credit risks of the fixed maturities portfolio and to provide attractive returns. The principal risks in holding ABS are structural and credit risks. Structural risks include the securitys priority in the issuers capital structure, the adequacy of and ability to realize proceeds from the collateral and the potential for prepayments. Credit risks involve issuer/servicer risk where collateral values can become impaired in the event of servicer credit deterioration. Our ABS portfolio is diversified both by type of asset and by issuer. We actively monitor holdings of ABS to ensure that the risk profile of each security improves or remains consistent. Prepayments in the ABS portfolio are, in general, insensitive to changes in interest rates or are insulated from such changes by call protection features. In the event that we are subject to prepayment risk, we monitor the factors that impact the level of prepayment and prepayment speed for those ABS. In addition, we diversify the risks of ABS by holding a diverse class of securities, which limits our exposure to any one security. The international exposure held in our U.S. operations fixed maturities portfolio was 24% of total fixed maturities as of both December 31, 2010 and 2009. It is comprised of corporate and foreign government fixed maturities. The following table presents the carrying amount of our international exposure for our U.S. operations fixed maturities portfolio for the periods indicated. December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 (in millions) European Union $ 3,336.6 $ 3,594.4 United Kingdom 2,304.3 2,290.5 Australia 1,279.4 1,152.0 Asia 892.2 955.6 South America 522.2 412.0 Other countries (1) 2,571.6 2,141.1 Total $ 10,906.3 $ 10,545.6 (1)Includes exposure from 24 countries as of both December 31, 2010 and 2009. All international fixed maturities held by our U.S. operations are either denominated in U.S. dollars or have been swapped into U.S. dollar equivalents. Our international investments are analyzed internally by country and industry credit investment professionals. We control concentrations using issuer and country level exposure benchmarks, which are based on the credit quality of the issuer and the country. Our investment policy limits total international fixed maturities investments and we are within those internal limits. Exposure to Canada is not included in our international exposure. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, our investments in Canada totaled $1,680.3 million and $1,623.5 million, respectively. Fixed Maturities Credit Concentrations. One aspect of managing credit risk is through industry, issuer and asset class diversification. Our credit concentrations are managed to established limits. The exposure attributed to monoline bond and mortgage insurers from investments that are guaranteed by them is not included in the evaluation of our top ten 64 Table of Contents exposures. We are not relying on said guarantors and are directly evaluating exposure to these investments. The following table presents our top ten exposures as of December 31, 2010. Amortized cost (in millions) Bank of America Corp. $ 247.0 JP Morgan Chase & Co. 238.8 General Electric Co. 233.6 Wells Fargo & Co. (1) 231.9 Berkshire Hathaway Inc. 221.3 AT&T Inc. 207.3 Export Import Bank of U.S. 203.8 Credit Suisse Group AG (1) 159.7 Prudential Financial Inc. 151.2 Westpac Banking Corp. 149.7 Total top ten exposures $ 2,044.3 (1)Includes actual counterparty exposure. We had exposure to monoline bond and mortgage insurers with an amortized cost of $667.8 million and a carrying amount of $668.6 million as of December 31, 2010. The $667.8 million includes wrapped guarantees on $641.7 million of underlying municipal bonds, corporate credit or ABS. Our direct exposure to these insurers was $26.1 million. Of the $641.7 million in wrapped guarantees, 44% was investment grade municipal bonds; 39% was investment grade bank perpetual preferred securities; 10% was ABS backed by sub prime or Alt A first lien mortgages, of which 30% was investment grade; and 7% was corporate fixed maturities, of which 93% was investment grade. Fixed Maturities Valuation and Credit Quality. Valuation techniques for the fixed maturities portfolio vary by security type and the availability of market data. The use of different pricing techniques and their assumptions could produce different financial results. See Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 14, Fair Value Measurements" for further details regarding our pricing methodology. Once prices are determined, they are reviewed by pricing analysts for reasonableness based on asset class and observable market data. In addition, investment analysts who are familiar with specific securities review prices for reasonableness through direct interaction with external sources, review of recent trade activity or use of internal models. All fixed maturities placed on the "watch list" are periodically analyzed by investment analysts or analysts that focus on troubled securities ("Workout Group"). This group then meets with the Chief Investment Officer and the Portfolio Managers to determine reasonableness of prices. The valuation of impaired bonds for which there is no quoted price is typically based on the present value of the future cash flows expected to be received. Although we believe these values reasonably reflect the fair value of those securities, the key assumptions about risk premiums, performance of underlying collateral (if any) and other market factors involve qualitative and unobservable inputs. The Securities Valuation Office ("SVO") of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners ("NAIC") monitors the bond investments of insurers for regulatory reporting purposes and, when required, assigns securities to one of six investment categories. For corporate bonds, the NAIC designations closely mirror the NRSROs credit ratings for marketable bonds. NAIC designations 1 and 2 include bonds considered investment grade by such rating organizations. Bonds are considered investment grade when rated "Baa3" or higher by Moodys, or "BBB " or higher by Standard & Poors. NAIC designations 3 through 6 are referred to as below investment grade. Bonds are considered below investment grade when rated "Ba1" or lower by Moodys, or "BB+" or lower by Standard & Poors. However, for loan backed and structured securities, as defined by the NAIC, the NAIC rating is not always equivalent to an NRSRO rating. In 2009, the NAIC approved an initiative to create a new modeling and assessment process for non agency residential mortgage backed securities effective December 31, 2009. The NAIC retained PIMCO Advisors to undertake the modeling and assignment of the NAIC ratings for these securities. The NAIC has agreed to continue its relationship with PIMCO Advisors with respect to RMBS designations for year end 2010. Also in 2010, the NAIC extended its initiative to include CMBS and retained Blackrock Solutions to undertake the modeling and assignment of the NAIC ratings of CMBS holdings effective December 31, 2010. Additionally in 2010, for all other loan backed and structured securities, as defined by the NAIC, the designations are based on current NRSRO ratings within the last twelve months which are then modified based on the carrying value on the insurers books. This may result in a final designation being higher or lower than the NRSRO credit rating. For those other loan backed and structured securities without a current rating, a NAIC 6 rating is assigned. 65  Table of Contents The following table presents our total fixed maturities by NAIC designation and the equivalent ratings of the NRSROs as of the periods indicated as well as the percentage, based on fair value, that each designation comprises. December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 NAIC rating Rating agency equivalent Amortized cost Carrying amount % of total carrying amount Amortized cost Carrying amount % of total carrying amount ($ in millions) 1 AAA/AA/A $ 26,765.7 $ 27,433.1 59 % $ 25,527.2 $ 25,341.5 57 % 2 BBB 14,445.7 15,027.8 33 15,885.1 15,726.8 35 3 BB 2,599.5 2,460.0 5 2,824.1 2,259.4 5 4 B 883.6 739.1 2 982.8 701.3 2 5 CCC and lower 567.1 451.5 1 376.1 253.0 1 6 In or near default 329.0 174.9 349.4 203.9 Total fixed maturities $ 45,590.6 $ 46,286.4 100 % $ 45,944.7 $ 44,485.9 100 % Fixed maturities include 15 securities with an amortized cost of $111.2 million, gross gains of $0.6 million, gross losses of $3.7 million and a carrying amount of $108.1 million as of December 31, 2010, that are still pending a review and assignment of a rating by the SVO. Due to the timing of when fixed maturities are purchased, legal documents are filed and the review by the SVO is completed, there will always be securities in our portfolio that are unrated over a reporting period. In these instances, an equivalent rating is assigned based on our fixed income analysts assessment. Commercial Mortgage Backed Securities and Home Equity Asset Backed Securities Portfolios. As of December 31, 2010, based on amortized cost, 58% of our CMBS portfolio had ratings of A or higher and 49% was issued in 2005 or before and 37% of our ABS home equity portfolio had ratings of A or higher and 85% was issued in 2005 or before. The following tables present our exposure by credit quality and year of issuance ("vintage") for our CMBS portfolio as of the periods indicated. December 31, 2010 AAA AA A BBB BB+ and Below Total Amortized cost Carrying amount Amortized cost Carrying amount Amortized cost Carrying amount Amortized cost Carrying amount Amortized cost Carrying amount Amortized cost Carrying amount (in millions) 2003 & Prior $ 372.4 $ 368.5 $ 119.9 $ 120.8 $ 140.6 $ 136.5 $ 149.1 $ 138.9 $ 118.4 $ 77.3 $ 900.4 $ 842.0 2004 262.6 270.5 58.4 58.3 52.1 46.3 50.3 33.6 71.5 51.9 494.9 460.6 2005 411.0 439.3 28.6 30.8 25.3 20.4 92.8 75.3 214.2 120.4 771.9 686.2 2006 216.3 216.7 9.0 11.0 75.0 78.6 19.1 19.7 171.2 81.1 490.6 407.1 2007 376.8 374.2 65.7 70.3 179.8 191.4 278.4 280.2 648.1 317.5 1,548.8 1,233.6 2008 15.0 15.7 32.9 35.8 11.8 9.6 31.2 19.3 90.9 80.4 2009 91.3 95.0 91.3 95.0 2010 37.9 39.0 3.3 3.4 41.2 42.4 Total $ 1,768.3 $ 1,803.2 $ 299.9 $ 310.3 $ 505.7 $ 509.0 $ 601.5 $ 557.3 $ 1,254.6 $ 667.5 $ 4,430.0 $ 3,847.3 December 31, 2009 AAA AA A BBB BB+ and Below Total Amortized cost Carrying amount Amortized cost Carrying amount Amortized cost Carrying amount Amortized cost Carrying amount Amortized cost Carrying amount Amortized cost Carrying amount (in millions) 2003 & Prior $ 727.8 $ 722.2 $ 178.1 $ 170.6 $ 173.9 $ 151.2 $ 163.9 $ 135.8 $ 96.9 $ 36.8 $ 1,340.6 $ 1,216.6 2004 296.8 291.4 60.9 50.5 81.7 46.4 43.2 18.3 50.7 24.6 533.3 431.2 2005 451.9 446.4 59.5 41.7 88.5 47.1 106.4 46.0 127.1 43.2 833.4 624.4 2006 215.2 196.0 14.9 13.8 70.8 57.2 76.3 42.1 148.5 27.1 525.7 336.2 2007 355.4 326.4 48.5 42.2 176.6 147.2 282.8 196.6 680.1 191.3 1,543.4 903.7 2008 4.6 3.9 15.1 13.1 24.2 21.9 11.5 4.6 35.4 13.7 90.8 57.2 2009 34.0 33.6 34.0 33.6 Total $ 2,085.7 $ 2,019.9 $ 377.0 $ 331.9 $ 615.7 $ 471.0 $ 684.1 $ 443.4 $ 1,138.7 $ 336.7 $ 4,901.2 $ 3,602.9 66 Table of Contents The following tables present our exposure by credit quality and vintage for our ABS home equity portfolio supported by subprime first lien mortgages as of the periods indicated. December 31, 2010 AAA AA A BBB BB and below Total Amortized cost Carrying amount Amortized cost Carrying amount Amortized cost Carrying amount Amortized cost Carrying amount Amortized cost Carrying amount Amortized cost Carrying amount (in millions) 2003 & prior $ 34.2 $ 33.7 $ 55.1 $ 50.5 $ 8.2 $ 7.4 $ 52.8 $ 45.0 $ 64.8 $ 48.0 $ 215.1 $ 184.6 2004 27.7 26.0 4.3 4.2 25.5 21.8 11.9 11.0 5.2 4.5 74.6 67.5 2005 3.1 3.2 2.0 1.4 74.1 54.6 79.2 59.2 2006 15.7 11.0 15.7 11.0 2007 47.5 37.9 47.5 37.9 Total $ 61.9 $ 59.7 $ 62.5 $ 57.9 $ 33.7 $ 29.2 $ 66.7 $ 57.4 $ 207.3 $ 156.0 $ 432.1 $ 360.2 December 31, 2009 AAA AA A BBB BB and below Total Amortized cost Carrying amount Amortized cost Carrying amount Amortized cost Carrying amount Amortized cost Carrying amount Amortized cost Carrying amount Amortized cost Carrying amount (in millions) 2003 & prior $ 72.5 $ 62.3 $ 75.3 $ 55.6 $ 5.0 $ 3.3 $ 40.9 $ 25.7 $ 44.9 $ 23.0 $ 238.6 $ 169.9 2004 49.6 37.7 13.1 8.3 9.4 7.7 10.6 7.8 82.7 61.5 2005 8.1 4.7 10.1 4.2 2.0 1.3 75.1 34.0 95.3 44.2 2006 16.7 7.8 16.7 7.8 2007 53.8 30.6 53.8 30.6 Total $ 130.2 $ 104.7 $ 98.5 $ 68.1 $ 16.4 $ 12.3 $ 51.5 $ 33.5 $ 190.5 $ 95.4 $ 487.1 $ 314.0 Fixed Maturities Watch List. We monitor any decline in the credit quality of fixed maturities through the designation of "problem securities," "potential problem securities" and "restructured securities". We define problem securities in our fixed maturity portfolio as securities: (i) as to which principal and or interest payments are in default or where default is perceived to be imminent in the near term, or (ii) issued by a company that went into bankruptcy subsequent to the acquisition of such securities. We define potential problem securities in our fixed maturity portfolio as securities included on an internal "watch list" for which management has concerns as to the ability of the issuer to comply with the present debt payment terms and which may result in the security becoming a problem or being restructured. The decision whether to classify a performing fixed maturity security as a potential problem involves significant subjective judgments by our management as to the likely future industry conditions and developments with respect to the issuer. We define restructured securities in our fixed maturity portfolio as securities where a concession has been granted to the borrower related to the borrowers financial difficulties that would not have otherwise been considered. We determine that restructures should occur in those instances where greater economic value will be realized under the new terms than through liquidation or other disposition and may involve a change in contractual cash flows. If the present value of the restructured cash flows is less than the current cost of the asset being restructured, a realized capital loss is recorded in net income and a new cost basis is established. The following table presents the total carrying amount of our fixed maturities portfolio, as well as its problem and potential problem fixed maturities for the periods indicated. December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 ($ in millions) Total fixed maturities (public and private) $ 46,286.4 $ 44,485.9 Problem fixed maturities (1) $ 378.7 $ 237.3 Potential problem fixed maturities 237.6 315.9 Restructured problem fixed maturities 17.4 Total problem, potential problem and restructured fixed maturities $ 633.7 $ 553.2 Total problem, potential problem and restructured fixed maturities as a percent of total fixed maturities 1.37 % 1.24 % (1)The problem fixed maturities carrying amount is net of other than temporary impairment losses. Fixed Maturities Impairments. We have a process in place to identify securities that could potentially have a credit impairment that is other than temporary. This process involves monitoring market events that could impact issuers credit ratings, business climate, management changes, litigation and government actions and other similar factors. This process also involves monitoring late payments, pricing levels, downgrades by rating agencies, key financial ratios, financial statements, revenue forecasts and cash flow projections as indicators of credit issues. Each reporting period, a group of individuals including the Chief Investment Officer, our Portfolio Managers, members of our Workout Group and representatives from Investment Accounting review all securities to determine whether an other than temporary decline in value exists and whether losses should be recognized. The analysis focuses on 67 Table of Contents each issuers ability to service its debts in a timely fashion. Formal documentation of the analysis and our decision is prepared and approved by management. We consider relevant facts and circumstances in evaluating whether a credit or interest rate related impairment of a security is other than temporary. Relevant facts and circumstances considered include: (1) the extent and length of time the fair value has been below cost; (2) the reasons for the decline in value; (3) the financial position and access to capital of the issuer, including the current and future impact of any specific events; (4) for structured securities, the adequacy of the expected cash flows and (5) our intent to sell the security or whether it is more likely than not we will be required to sell the security before recovery of its amortized cost which, in some cases, may extend to maturity. To the extent we determine that a security is deemed to be other than temporarily impaired, an impairment loss is recognized. For additional details, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 4, Investments." When it is not our intent to sell a security with unrealized losses, it is not more likely than not that we would be required to sell the security before recovery of the amortized cost, which may be maturity, and we expect to recover the amortized cost basis, we would not consider the security to be other than temporarily impaired. However, we do sell bonds under certain circumstances, such as when we have evidence of a significant deterioration in the issuers creditworthiness, when a change in regulatory requirements modifies what constitutes a permissible investment or the maximum level of investments held or when there is an increase in capital requirements or a change in risk weights of debt securities. Sales generate both gains and losses. There are a number of significant risks and uncertainties inherent in the process of monitoring credit impairments and determining if an impairment is other than temporary. These risks and uncertainties include: (1) the risk that our assessment of an issuers ability to meet all of its contractual obligations will change based on changes in the credit characteristics of that issuer, (2) the risk that the economic outlook will be worse than expected or have more of an impact on the issuer than anticipated, (3) the risk that our investment professionals are making decisions based on fraudulent or misstated information in the financial statements provided by issuers and (4) the risk that new information obtained by us or changes in other facts and circumstances lead us to change our intent to not sell the security prior to recovery of its amortized cost. Any of these situations could result in a charge to net income in a future period. The net realized loss relating to other than temporary credit impairments of fixed maturities was $244.7 million, $428.5 million and $409.4 million for the years ended December 31, 2010, 2009, and 2008, respectively. 68  Table of Contents Fixed Maturities Available for Sale The following tables present our fixed maturities available for sale by industry category and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses, including other than temporary impairment losses reported in AOCI, as of the periods indicated. December 31, 2010 Amortized cost Gross unrealized gains Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount (in millions) Finance Banking $ 4,598.3 $ 110.2 $ 279.2 $ 4,429.3 Finance Brokerage 418.4 16.8 2.6 432.6 Finance Finance Companies 267.3 11.2 4.5 274.0 Finance Financial Other 446.6 36.1 2.3 480.4 Finance Insurance 2,723.4 109.7 73.3 2,759.8 Finance REITS 1,210.6 33.7 27.8 1,216.5 Industrial Basic Industry 1,750.4 107.7 5.1 1,853.0 Industrial Capital Goods 2,262.3 137.8 7.3 2,392.8 Industrial Communications 2,184.4 163.4 11.9 2,335.9 Industrial Consumer Cyclical 1,616.3 109.9 10.9 1,715.3 Industrial Consumer Non Cyclical 3,147.4 240.0 20.4 3,367.0 Industrial Energy 2,069.5 166.7 5.0 2,231.2 Industrial Other 657.6 36.6 5.5 688.7 Industrial Technology 793.8 42.0 5.8 830.0 Industrial Transportation 679.7 39.9 11.3 708.3 Utility Electric 2,608.4 169.3 19.5 2,758.2 Utility Natural Gas 1,073.2 75.1 3.4 1,144.9 Utility Other 156.6 15.5 172.1 FDIC guaranteed 95.6 2.0 97.6 Government guaranteed 1,158.0 101.6 5.9 1,253.7 Total corporate securities 29,917.8 1,725.2 501.7 31,141.3 Residential pass through securities 3,047.8 122.1 5.9 3,164.0 Commercial mortgage backed securities 4,424.9 118.0 700.7 3,842.2 Residential collateralized mortgage obligations (1) 1,427.7 28.6 50.8 1,405.5 Asset backed securities Home equity (2) 432.1 0.6 72.5 360.2 Asset backed securities All other 1,325.1 24.5 1.2 1,348.4 Collateralized debt obligations Credit 90.8 36.4 54.4 Collateralized debt obligations CMBS 113.8 0.4 36.8 77.4 Collateralized debt obligations Loans 141.2 0.8 6.6 135.4 Collateralized debt obligations ABS (3) 34.7 0.5 9.4 25.8 Total mortgage backed and other asset backed securities 11,038.1 295.5 920.3 10,413.3 U.S. government and agencies 748.5 21.0 0.2 769.3 States and political subdivisions 2,615.0 64.7 23.3 2,656.4 Non U.S. governments 389.3 34.9 424.2 Total fixed maturities, available for sale $ 44,708.7 $ 2,141.3 $ 1,445.5 $ 45,404.5 (1)Includes exposure to Alt a mortgage loans with an amortized cost of $54.9 million, gross unrealized gains of $0.2 million, gross unrealized losses of $5.5 million and a carrying amount of $49.6 million. The Alt a portfolio has a weighted average rating of A and 63% are 2005 and prior vintages. (2)This exposure is all related to sub prime mortgage loans. (3)Includes exposure to sub prime mortgage loans with an amortized cost of $19.7 million, gross unrealized gains of $0.5 million, gross unrealized losses of $8.9 million and a carrying amount of $11.3 million. 69 Table of Contents December 31, 2009 Amortized cost Gross unrealized gains Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount (in millions) Finance Banking $ 4,288.5 $ 68.2 $ 480.4 $ 3,876.3 Finance Brokerage 428.6 11.0 6.4 433.2 Finance Finance Companies 265.2 9.0 18.7 255.5 Finance Financial Other 535.6 26.0 8.6 553.0 Finance Insurance 2,714.9 36.5 207.9 2,543.5 Finance REITS 1,327.1 14.6 80.0 1,261.7 Industrial Basic Industry 1,921.4 74.9 19.1 1,977.2 Industrial Capital Goods 2,364.0 99.1 33.0 2,430.1 Industrial Communications 2,761.6 174.3 21.8 2,914.1 Industrial Consumer Cyclical 1,597.0 69.4 32.0 1,634.4 Industrial Consumer Non Cyclical 3,149.6 172.0 27.4 3,294.2 Industrial Energy 1,933.3 108.3 19.2 2,022.4 Industrial Other 700.0 22.8 20.0 702.8 Industrial Technology 765.0 31.6 11.2 785.4 Industrial Transportation 934.9 41.7 18.4 958.2 Utility Electric 2,518.6 115.6 18.6 2,615.6 Utility Natural Gas 1,086.2 66.0 7.4 1,144.8 Utility Other 122.8 3.2 0.6 125.4 FDIC guaranteed 96.1 1.4 97.5 Government guaranteed 1,102.8 76.3 16.9 1,162.2 Total corporate securities 30,613.2 1,221.9 1,047.6 30,787.5 Residential pass through securities 3,019.1 86.0 3.8 3,101.3 Commercial mortgage backed securities 4,898.0 20.9 1,319.2 3,599.7 Residential collateralized mortgage obligations (1) 1,198.9 13.5 114.9 1,097.5 Asset backed securities Home equity (2) 487.1 173.1 314.0 Asset backed securities All other 1,308.1 21.1 15.5 1,313.7 Collateralized debt obligations Credit 197.2 1.5 67.0 131.7 Collateralized debt obligations CMBS 257.0 129.4 127.6 Collateralized debt obligations Loans 101.4 21.4 80.0 Collateralized debt obligations ABS (3) 51.9 0.3 21.9 30.3 Total mortgage backed and other asset backed securities 11,518.7 143.3 1,866.2 9,795.8 U.S. government and agencies 550.1 9.1 0.5 558.7 States and political subdivisions 2,008.7 53.4 13.5 2,048.6 Non U.S. governments 421.1 42.4 1.1 462.4 Total fixed maturities, available for sale $ 45,111.8 $ 1,470.1 $ 2,928.9 $ 43,653.0 (1)Includes exposure to Alt a mortgage loans with an amortized cost of $59.6 million, gross unrealized losses of $18.2 million and a carrying amount of $41.4 million. The Alt a portfolio has a weighted average rating of BBB and 66% are 2005 and prior vintages. (2)This exposure is all related to sub prime mortgage loans. (3)Includes exposure to sub prime mortgage loans with an amortized cost of $27.4 million, gross unrealized gains of $0.3 million, gross unrealized losses of $17.9 million and a carrying amount of $9.8 million. Of the $1,445.5 million in gross unrealized losses as of December 31, 2010, there were $1.8 million in losses attributed to securities scheduled to mature in one year or less, $50.5 million attributed to securities scheduled to mature between one to five years, $86.0 million attributed to securities scheduled to mature between five to ten years, $386.9 million attributed to securities scheduled to mature after ten years and $920.3 million related to mortgage backed and other ABS that are not classified by maturity year. As of December 31, 2010, we were in a $695.8 million net unrealized gain position as compared to a $1,458.8 million net unrealized loss position as of December 31, 2009. Of the $2,154.6 million increase in net unrealized gains for the year ended December 31, 2010, an approximate $1.0 billion net unrealized gain can be attributed to an approximate 57 basis points decrease in interest rates and the remaining net unrealized gains related to other market factors. Credit Disruption. The credit disruption in the market that began in the last half of 2007 from concerns in the sub prime markets, and continued into 2008 and 2009 with concerns in the leveraged finance markets led to reduced liquidity and wider credit spreads. These credit concerns led to widespread forced selling into a very thinly traded market, which further strained market liquidity. This market disruption lowered valuations and, as a result, we saw an increase in net unrealized losses in our securities portfolio through the first quarter of 2009. The losses were more pronounced in the Finance sectors and in structured products such as collateralized debt obligations, ABS and CMBS. The decline in value in large part reflected the illiquid markets. We concluded the prices of the securities in our securities portfolio were temporarily depressed due to (1) the issuers continued satisfaction of the securities obligations in accordance with their contractual terms, (2) the expectation the issuers will continue to satisfy their obligations given the evaluation of the fundamentals of the issuers financial condition and other objective evidence and (3) management not having the intent to sell these securities and as it is not more likely than not that we would be required to sell these securities before the 70 Table of Contents recovery of the amortized cost. During the second quarter of 2009 and continuing through the end of 2009, a narrowing of credit spreads and improvement in liquidity resulted in a decrease in the net unrealized losses in our securities portfolio. During the year ended December 31, 2010, gross unrealized losses continued to decrease relative to year end 2009, primarily due to a decline in interest rates and gross unrealized gains grew such that the securities portfolio is now in a net unrealized gain position. Future changes in the fair value of these securities will be dependent on continued improvement in market liquidity and changes in general market conditions, including interest rates and credit spread movements. Fixed Maturities Available for Sale Unrealized Losses. We believe that our long term fixed maturities portfolio is well diversified among industry types and between publicly traded and privately placed securities. Each year, we direct the majority of our net cash inflows into investment grade fixed maturities. The net cash inflows into investment grade fixed maturities are less than prior years due to us investing in more liquid investments. Our current policy is to limit the percentage of cash flow invested in below investment grade assets to 10% of cash flow. During 2010, we did not actively increase our investment in available for sale below investment grade assets. While Principal Lifes general account investment returns have improved due to the below investment grade asset class, we manage its growth strategically by limiting it to no more than 10% of the total fixed maturities portfolios. We invest in privately placed fixed maturities to enhance the overall value of the portfolio, increase diversification and obtain higher yields than are possible with comparable quality public market securities. Generally, private placements provide broader access to management information, strengthened negotiated protective covenants, call protection features and, where applicable, a higher level of collateral. They are, however, generally not freely tradable because of restrictions imposed by federal and state securities laws and illiquid trading markets. The following table presents our fixed maturities available for sale by investment grade and below investment grade and the associated gross unrealized gains and losses, including other than temporary impairment losses reported in OCI, as of the periods indicated. December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Amortized cost Gross unrealized gains Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Amortized cost Gross unrealized gains Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount (in millions) Investment grade: Public $ 28,496.5 $ 1,429.0 $ 394.5 $ 29,531.0 $ 28,439.8 $ 990.9 $ 1,015.0 $ 28,415.7 Private 12,071.9 621.4 406.4 12,286.9 12,159.7 423.3 743.2 11,839.8 Below investment grade: Public 2,087.8 39.1 305.3 1,821.6 2,233.8 14.4 468.5 1,779.7 Private 2,052.5 51.8 339.3 1,765.0 2,278.5 41.5 702.2 1,617.8 Total fixed maturities, available for sale $ 44,708.7 $ 2,141.3 $ 1,445.5 $ 45,404.5 $ 45,111.8 $ 1,470.1 $ 2,928.9 $ 43,653.0 The following tables present the carrying amount and the gross unrealized losses, including other than temporary impairment losses reported in OCI, on investment grade fixed maturities available for sale by aging category as of the periods indicated. December 31, 2010 Public Private Total Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses (in millions) Three months or less $ 2,534.3 $ 45.9 $ 999.8 $ 21.9 $ 3,534.1 $ 67.8 Greater than three to six months 157.9 6.8 59.3 1.4 217.2 8.2 Greater than six to nine months 186.3 5.5 65.1 2.1 251.4 7.6 Greater than nine to twelve months 103.3 3.4 5.1 0.1 108.4 3.5 Greater than twelve to twenty four months 92.0 19.6 81.7 10.7 173.7 30.3 Greater than twenty four to thirty six months 541.6 86.1 437.0 89.4 978.6 175.5 Greater than thirty six months 1,440.9 227.2 1,485.5 280.8 2,926.4 508.0 Total fixed maturities, available for sale $ 5,056.3 $ 394.5 $ 3,133.5 $ 406.4 $ 8,189.8 $ 800.9 71 Table of Contents December 31, 2009 Public Private Total Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses (in millions) Three months or less $ 2,367.4 $ 34.5 $ 927.7 $ 21.2 $ 3,295.1 $ 55.7 Greater than three to six months 139.0 9.7 39.2 1.0 178.2 10.7 Greater than six to nine months 24.0 0.2 22.3 5.1 46.3 5.3 Greater than nine to twelve months 75.6 14.9 50.4 6.9 126.0 21.8 Greater than twelve to twenty four months 2,169.7 361.2 1,596.0 207.6 3,765.7 568.8 Greater than twenty four to thirty six months 1,846.6 415.0 1,650.2 346.2 3,496.8 761.2 Greater than thirty six months 1,256.7 179.5 659.4 155.2 1,916.1 334.7 Total fixed maturities, available for sale $ 7,879.0 $ 1,015.0 $ 4,945.2 $ 743.2 $ 12,824.2 $ 1,758.2 The following tables present the carrying amount and the gross unrealized losses, including other than temporary impairment losses reported in OCI, on below investment grade fixed maturities available for sale by aging category as of the periods indicated. December 31, 2010 Public Private Total Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses (in millions) Three months or less $ 70.1 $ 1.0 $ 70.9 $ 4.6 $ 141.0 $ 5.6 Greater than three to six months 15.1 0.3 8.9 0.1 24.0 0.4 Greater than six to nine months 7.2 1.1 7.2 1.1 Greater than nine to twelve months 32.0 1.2 11.5 0.6 43.5 1.8 Greater than twelve to twenty four months 5.9 1.9 0.2 0.1 6.1 2.0 Greater than twenty four to thirty six months 233.9 43.9 175.1 89.0 409.0 132.9 Greater than thirty six months 807.4 255.9 495.8 244.9 1,303.2 500.8 Total fixed maturities, available for sale $ 1,171.6 $ 305.3 $ 762.4 $ 339.3 $ 1,934.0 $ 644.6 December 31, 2009 Public Private Total Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses (in millions) Three months or less $ 55.7 $ 3.3 $ 52.8 $ 1.2 $ 108.5 $ 4.5 Greater than three to six months 3.4 14.8 18.2 Greater than six to nine months 12.7 0.2 0.1 0.1 12.8 0.3 Greater than nine to twelve months 32.8 11.2 1.0 1.8 33.8 13.0 Greater than twelve to twenty four months 441.3 112.2 365.6 186.7 806.9 298.9 Greater than twenty four to thirty six months 609.0 314.8 403.5 435.8 1,012.5 750.6 Greater than thirty six months 113.8 26.8 84.6 76.6 198.4 103.4 Total fixed maturities, available for sale $ 1,268.7 $ 468.5 $ 922.4 $ 702.2 $ 2,191.1 $ 1,170.7 The following tables present the carrying amount and the gross unrealized losses, including other than temporary impairment losses reported in OCI, on fixed maturities available for sale where the estimated fair value had declined and remained below amortized cost by 20% or more as of the periods indicated. December 31, 2010 Problem, potential problem, and restructured All other fixed maturity securities Total Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses (in millions) Three months or less $ 39.6 $ 11.1 $ 57.7 $ 16.5 $ 97.3 $ 27.6 Greater than three to six months 0.9 1.1 15.1 4.9 16.0 6.0 Greater than six to nine months 0.1 113.8 33.3 113.9 33.3 Greater than nine to twelve months Greater than twelve months 251.4 403.6 792.8 529.4 1,044.2 933.0 Total fixed maturities, available for sale $ 292.0 $ 415.8 $ 979.4 $ 584.1 $ 1,271.4 $ 999.9 72  Table of Contents December 31, 2009 Problem, potential problem, and restructured All other fixed maturity securities Total Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses Carrying amount Gross unrealized losses (in millions) Three months or less $ 6.1 $ 2.0 $ 243.8 $ 77.4 $ 249.9 $ 79.4 Greater than three to six months 31.8 9.2 31.8 9.2 Greater than six to nine months 0.1 0.1 46.0 22.5 46.1 22.6 Greater than nine to twelve months 28.8 24.8 49.9 25.4 78.7 50.2 Greater than twelve months 276.8 438.3 1,812.8 1,578.5 2,089.6 2,016.8 Total fixed maturities, available for sale $ 311.8 $ 465.2 $ 2,184.3 $ 1,713.0 $ 2,496.1 $ 2,178.2 Mortgage Loans Mortgage loans consist of commercial mortgage loans on real estate and residential mortgage loans. The carrying amount of our commercial mortgage loan portfolio was $9,599.6 million and $10,121.8 million as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. The carrying amount of our residential mortgage loan portfolio was $877.5 million and $1,128.7 million as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, respectively. Commercial Mortgage Loans. We generally report commercial mortgage loans on real estate at cost adjusted for amortization of premiums and accrual of discounts, computed using the interest method and net of valuation allowances. Commercial mortgage loans play an important role in our investment strategy by: providing strong risk adjusted relative value in comparison to other investment alternatives; enhancing total returns and providing strategic portfolio diversification. As a result, we have focused on constructing a solid, high quality portfolio of mortgages. Our portfolio is generally comprised of mortgages originated with conservative loan to value ratios, high debt service coverages and general purpose property types with a strong credit tenancy. Our commercial mortgage loan portfolio consists of primarily non recourse, fixed rate mortgages on fully or near fully leased properties. The mortgage portfolio is comprised primarily of credit oriented retail properties, office properties and general purpose industrial properties. Our commercial mortgage loan portfolio is diversified by geography and specific collateral property type. Commercial mortgage lending in the state of California accounted for 22% and 20% of our commercial mortgage loan portfolio as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We are, therefore, exposed to potential losses resulting from the risk of catastrophes, such as earthquakes, that may affect the region. Like other lenders, we generally do not require earthquake insurance for properties on which we make commercial mortgage loans. With respect to California properties, however, we obtain an engineering report specific to each property. The report assesses the buildings design specifications, whether it has been upgraded to meet seismic building codes and the maximum loss that is likely to result from a variety of different seismic events. We also obtain a report that assesses, by building and geographic fault lines, the amount of loss our commercial mortgage loan portfolio might suffer under a variety of seismic events. The typical borrower in our commercial loan portfolio is a single purpose entity or single asset entity. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, 30% and 31%, respectively, of the commercial mortgage loan portfolio was comprised of mortgage loans with principal balances of less than $10.0 million. The total number of commercial mortgage loans outstanding was 1,033 and 1,101 as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The average loan size of our commercial mortgage portfolio was $9.4 million and $9.3 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Commercial Mortgage Loan Credit Monitoring. For further details on monitoring and management of our commercial mortgage loan portfolio, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 4, Investments Mortgage Loan Credit Monitoring." We categorize loans that are 60 days or more delinquent, loans in process of foreclosure and loans with borrowers or credit tenants in bankruptcy that are delinquent as "problem" loans. Valuation allowances or charge offs have been recognized on most problem loans. We categorize loans that are delinquent less than 60 days where the default is expected to be cured and loans with borrowers or credit tenants in bankruptcy that are current as "potential problem" loans. The decision whether to classify a loan delinquent less than 60 days as a potential problem involves significant subjective judgments by management as to the likely future economic conditions and developments with respect to the borrower. We categorize loans for which the original note rate has been reduced below market and loans for which the principal has been reduced as "restructured" loans. We also consider loans that are refinanced more than one year beyond the original maturity or call date at below market rates as restructured. 73 Table of Contents The decrease in the level of problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages during 2010 reflects loan write downs, payoffs, loan sales and the internal refinance of several others at market terms. There was a significant increase in the level of problem, potential problem, and restructured commercial mortgages during 2009 due to the impact of the U.S. recession on commercial real estate. The job losses and record foreclosures in housing have negatively impacted property vacancy rates and rental rates. Areas significantly impacted by the recession include the South Atlantic, Mountain and Pacific regions, which account for the majority of the problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009. Apartment and retail properties in those regions, which accounted for nearly half of the problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages as of December 31, 2010 and December 31, 2009, have been hit the hardest by the falling rents and occupancies. Many of the loans sold and refinanced during 2010 were apartments in the South Atlantic and Mountain regions. The following table presents the carrying amounts of problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages relative to the carrying amount of all commercial mortgages for the periods indicated. December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 ($ in millions) Total commercial mortgages $ 9,599.6 $ 10,121.8 Problem commercial mortgages (1) $ 35.7 $ 96.5 Potential problem commercial mortgages 317.7 521.0 Restructured commercial mortgages 7.5 10.3 Total problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages $ 360.9 $ 627.8 Total problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages as a percent of total commercial mortgages 3.76 % 6.20 % (1)Includes $13.5 million of commercial mortgage loans in foreclosure as of December 31, 2010. Commercial Mortgage Loan Valuation Allowance. The valuation allowance for commercial mortgage loans includes loan specific reserves for loans that are deemed to be impaired as well as reserves for pools of loans with similar characteristics where a property risk or market specific risk has not been identified but for which we expect to incur a loss. For further details on the commercial mortgage valuation allowance, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 4, Investments Mortgage Loan Valuation Allowance." The valuation allowance for PFG decreased $51.9 million for the year ended December 31, 2010, and increased $75.5 million for the year ended December 31, 2009. The decrease in the level of valuation allowance during 2010 is primarily related to loan write downs, payoffs and loan sales and the related release of valuation allowance, which is partially offset by current period provisions. The increase in the level of valuation allowance during 2009 was related to the same market factors as those causing the increase in the level of problem, potential problem and restructured commercial mortgages during 2009. The South Atlantic region accounts for the highest level of reserves at December 31, 2010. The South Atlantic and Mountain regions account for the highest level of reserves at December 31, 2009. The following table represents our commercial mortgage valuation allowance for the periods indicated. December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 ($ in millions) Balance, beginning of period $ 132.5 $ 57.0 Provision 54.1 115.4 Charge offs (106.0 ) (39.9 ) Balance, end of period $ 80.6 $ 132.5 Valuation allowance as % of carrying value before reserves 0.83 % 1.29 % Residential Mortgage Loans. The residential mortgage loan portfolio is composed of home equity mortgages of $719.3 million and $912.2 million and first lien mortgages of $195.9 million and $245.2 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, primarily held by our Bank and Trust Services business. The home equity loans are generally second lien mortgages made up of closed end loans and lines of credit. Non performing residential mortgage loans, which PFG defines as loans 90 days or greater delinquent plus non accrual loans, totaled $24.0 million and $66.8 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We establish the residential mortgage loan valuation allowance at levels considered adequate to absorb probable losses within the portfolio based on managements evaluation of the size and current risk characteristics of the portfolio. Such evaluation considers numerous factors, including, but not limited to net charge off trends, loss forecasts, collateral values, geographic location, borrower credit scores, delinquency rates, industry condition and economic trends. The changes in the valuation allowance are reported in net realized capital gains (losses) on our consolidated statements of operations. Our residential mortgage loan portfolio, and in particular our home equity loan portfolio, has experienced an increase in loss severity from sustained elevated levels of unemployment along with continued depressed collateral 74 Table of Contents values. The deterioration has resulted in an increase in delinquencies. The following table represents our residential mortgage valuation allowance for the periods indicated. December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 ($ in millions) Balance, beginning of period $ 28.7 $ 12.1 Provision 97.6 32.9 Charge offs/recoveries (88.6 ) (16.3 ) Balance, end of period $ 37.7 $ 28.7 Valuation allowance as % of carrying value before reserves 4.1 % 2.5 % Real Estate Real estate consists primarily of commercial equity real estate. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the carrying amount of our equity real estate investment was $1,052.3 million, or 2%, and $1,022.2 million, or 2%, of U.S. invested assets, respectively. Our commercial equity real estate is held in the form of wholly owned real estate, real estate acquired upon foreclosure of commercial mortgage loans and majority owned interests in real estate joint ventures. Equity real estate is categorized as either "real estate held for investment" or "real estate held for sale." Real estate held for investment totaled $1,010.7 million and $998.4 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The carrying value of real estate held for investment is generally adjusted for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. Such impairment adjustments are recorded as net realized losses and, accordingly, are reflected in our consolidated results of operations. For the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, there were no such impairment adjustments. The carrying amount of real estate held for sale was $41.6 million and $23.8 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. There were no valuation allowances as of December 31, 2010 or 2009. Once we identify a real estate property to be sold and commence a plan for marketing the property, we classify the property as held for sale. We establish a valuation allowance subject to periodic revisions, if necessary, to adjust the carrying value of the property to reflect the lower of its current carrying value or the fair value, less associated selling costs. We use research, both internal and external, to recommend appropriate product and geographic allocations and changes to the equity real estate portfolio. We monitor product, geographic and industry diversification separately and together to determine the most appropriate mix. Equity real estate is distributed across geographic regions of the country with larger concentrations in the South Atlantic and West South Central regions of the United States as of December 31, 2010. By property type, there is a concentration in office, industrial, retail, and apartments that represented approximately 92% of the equity real estate portfolio as of December 31, 2010. Other Investments Our other investments totaled $1,486.3 million as of December 31, 2010, compared to $1,480.2 million as of December 31, 2009. Derivative assets accounted for $1,058.5 million and $1,212.7 million in other investments as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The remaining invested assets include equity method investments, which include real estate properties owned jointly with venture partners and operated by the partners. International Investment Operations Of our invested assets, $5.4 billion were held by our Principal International segment as of December 31, 2010. The assets are managed by either our Principal Global Investors segment or by the local Principal International affiliate. Due to the regulatory constraints in each country, each company maintains its own investment policies. As shown in the following table, the major categories of international invested assets as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, were fixed 75 Table of Contents maturities, other investments and residential mortgage loans. The following table excludes invested assets of the separate accounts. December 31, 2010 December 31, 2009 Carrying amount % of total Carrying amount % of total ($ in millions) Fixed maturities Public $ 3,470.2 65 % $ 2,767.1 62 % Equity securities 62.7 1 46.7 1 Mortgage loans Commercial 9.4 7.5 Mortgage loans Residential 638.6 12 587.6 14 Real estate 11.2 12.4 Policy loans 24.2 21.2 1 Other investments 1,155.3 22 985.1 22 Total invested assets 5,371.6 100 % 4,427.6 100 % Cash and cash equivalents 60.2 48.1 Total invested assets and cash $ 5,431.8 $ 4,475.7 Investments in equity method subsidiaries and direct financing leases accounted for $667.0 million and $443.1 million, respectively, of other investments as of December 31, 2010. Investments in equity method subsidiaries and direct financing leases accounted for $578.7 million and $375.2 million, respectively, of other investments as of December 31, 2009. The remaining other investments as of both December 31, 2010 and 2009, are primarily related to derivative assets and other short term investments. 76  Table of Contents  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk Market Risk Exposures and Risk Management Market risk is the risk that we will incur losses due to adverse fluctuations in market rates and prices. Our primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates, although we also have exposures to changes in equity prices and foreign currency exchange rates. We enter into market sensitive instruments primarily for purposes other than trading. The active management of market risk is an integral part of our operations. We manage our overall market risk exposure within established risk tolerance ranges by using the following approaches: rebalance our existing asset or liability portfolios; control the risk structure of newly acquired assets and liabilities or use derivative instruments to modify the market risk characteristics of existing assets or liabilities or assets expected to be purchased. Interest Rate Risk Interest rate risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse changes in interest rates. One source of interest rate risk is the inherent difficulty in obtaining assets that mature or have their rate reset at the exact same time as the liabilities they support. Assets may have to be reinvested or sold in the future to meet the liability cash flows in unknown interest rate environments. Secondly, there may be timing differences between when new liabilities are priced and when assets are purchased or procured that can cause fluctuations in profitability if interest rates move materially in the interim. A third source of interest rate risk is the prepayment options embedded within asset and liability contracts that can alter the cash flow profiles from what was originally expected. One of the measures we use to quantify our exposure to interest rate risk is duration. To calculate duration, we project asset and liability cash flows. These cash flows are discounted to a net present value basis using a spot yield curve, which is a blend of the spot yield curves for each of the asset types in the portfolio. Duration is calculated by re calculating these cash flows, re determining the net present value based upon an alternative level of interest rates, and determining the percentage change in fair value. We manage interest rate risks in a number of ways. Differences in durations between assets and liabilities are measured and kept within acceptable tolerances. Derivatives are also commonly used to mitigate interest rate risk due to cash flow mismatches and timing differences. Prepayment risk is controlled by limiting our exposure to investments that are prepayable without penalty prior to maturity at the option of the issuer. We also require additional yield on these investments to compensate for the risk the issuer will exercise such option. Prepayment risk is also controlled by limiting the sales of liabilities with features such as puts or other options that can be exercised against the company at inopportune times. For example, as of December 31, 2010, approximately $11.7 billion, or 98%, of our institutional GICs and funding agreements cannot be redeemed by contractholders prior to maturity. We are also exposed to interest rate risk based upon the discount rate assumption used for purposes of valuing our pension and other post retirement benefit obligations. For further discussion of interest rate risk associated with these obligations, see Item 7. "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Benefit Plans." Duration Managed. Our exposure to interest rate risk stems largely from our substantial holdings of guaranteed fixed rate liabilities in our Retirement and Investor Services segment. We actively manage the duration of assets and liabilities in these products by minimizing the difference between the two. As of December 31, 2010, the difference between the asset and liability durations on our primary duration managed portfolio was 0.28, as compared to 0.12 as of December 31, 2009. This duration gap indicates that, as of December 31, 2010, the sensitivity of the fair value of our assets to interest rate movements is less than that of the fair value of our liabilities. Our goal is to minimize the duration gap. Currently, our guidelines indicate that total duration gaps between the asset and liability portfolios should be within +/ 0.25. As of December 31, 2010, the mismatch is slightly outside of our duration gap guideline due to temporary asset and liability spread mismatches. However, our cash flow studies reflect our general practice to hold assets and liabilities to maturity and indicate that the interest rate risk is sufficiently managed. The value of the assets in this portfolio was $26,601.9 million and $28,377.1 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Duration Monitored. For products such as whole life insurance and term life insurance that are less sensitive to interest rate risk, and for other products such as individual fixed deferred annuities, we manage interest rate risk based on a modeling process that considers the target average life, maturities, crediting rates and assumptions of policyholder behavior. As of December 31, 2010, the weighted average difference between the asset and liability durations on these portfolios was 1.54, as compared to 0.16 as of December 31, 2009. This duration gap indicates that, as of December 31, 2010, the sensitivity of the fair value of our assets to interest rate movements is less than that of the fair value of our liabilities. We attempt to monitor this duration gap consistent with our overall risk/reward tolerances. The 77 Table of Contents value of the assets in these portfolios was $24,720.0 million and $22,497.1 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Non Duration Managed. We also have a block of participating general account pension business that passes most of the actual investment performance of the assets to the customer. The investment strategy of this block is to maximize investment return to the customer on a "best efforts" basis, and there is little or no attempt to manage the duration of this portfolio since there is little or no interest rate risk. The value of the assets in these portfolios was $5,167.8 million and $5,745.5 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Using the assumptions and data in effect as of December 31, 2010, we estimate that a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase in interest rates increases the net fair value of our portfolio by approximately $455.4 million, compared with an estimated $71.1 million increase as of December 31, 2009. The following table details the estimated changes by risk management strategy. The table also gives the weighted average duration of the asset portfolio for each category, and the net duration gap (i.e., the weighted average difference between the asset and liability durations). December 31, 2010 Risk Management Strategy Value of total assets Duration of assets Net duration gap Net fair value change (in millions) (in millions) Primary duration managed $ 26,601.9 3.53 (0.28 ) $ 74.5 Duration monitored 24,720.0 4.18 (1.54 ) 380.9 Non duration managed 5,167.8 3.86 N/A N/A Total $ 56,489.7 $ 455.4 Our selection of a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase or decrease in interest rates is a hypothetical rate scenario we use to demonstrate potential risk. While a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase does not represent our view of future market changes, it is a near term reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. While these fair value measurements provide a representation of interest rate sensitivity, they are based on our portfolio exposures at a point in time and may not be representative of future market results. These exposures will change as a result of ongoing portfolio transactions in response to new business, managements assessment of changing market conditions and available investment opportunities. See Item 7. "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Valuation and Impairment of Fixed Income Investments" for additional discussion of the impact interest rate increases would have on fixed maturities, available for sale. Debt Issued and Outstanding. The primary risk for our long term borrowings is interest rate risk at the time of maturity or early redemption, when we may be required to refinance these obligations. We continue to monitor the interest rate environment and to evaluate refinancing opportunities as maturity dates approach. The aggregate fair value of long term debt, excluding accrued interest, was $1,756.3 million and $1,608.4 million, as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, a 100 basis point immediate, parallel decrease in interest rates would increase the fair value of debt by approximately $143.1 million, as compared to an estimated $132.6 million increase as of December 31, 2009. As of December 31, 2010, a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase in interest rates would decrease the fair value of debt by approximately $128.4 million, as compared to an estimated $114.3 million decrease as of December 31, 2009. Debt is not recorded at fair value on the consolidated statements of financial position. Our selection of a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase or decrease in interest rates is a hypothetical rate scenario we use to demonstrate potential risk. While a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase or decrease does not represent our view of future market changes, it is a near term reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. While these fair value measurements provide a representation of interest rate sensitivity, they are based on our long term debt obligations at a point in time and may not be representative of future obligations. These exposures will change as a result of ongoing changes to our outstanding long term debt obligations. For additional information regarding our debt, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 9, Debt." Use of Derivatives to Manage Interest Rate Risk. We use or have previously used various derivative financial instruments to manage our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates, including interest rate swaps, interest rate collars, swaptions, futures and options. We use interest rate swaps and futures contracts to hedge changes in interest rates subsequent to the issuance of an insurance liability, such as a guaranteed investment contract, but prior to the purchase of a supporting asset, or during periods of holding assets in anticipation of near term liability sales. We use interest rate swaps primarily to more closely match the interest rate characteristics of assets and liabilities. They can be used to change the sensitivity to the interest rate of specific assets and liabilities as well as an entire portfolio. We use interest rate collars to manage interest rate risk related to guaranteed minimum interest rate liabilities in our individual annuities contracts. 78 Table of Contents We purchase swaptions to offset existing exposures. Occasionally, we have sold a callable investment type agreement and used written interest rate swaptions to transform the callable liability into a fixed term liability. Derivatives in our portfolio with interest rate sensitivity were in a net liability position with a fair value of $309.9 million and $130.7 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The following table shows the interest rate sensitivity of our derivatives measured in terms of fair value. These exposures will change as a result of ongoing portfolio and risk management activities. December 31, 2010 Fair value (no accrued interest) Notional amount Weighted average term (years) (1) 100 basis point change No change +100 basis point change ($ in millions) Interest rate swaps $ 19,803.0 5.35 $ (361.8 ) $ (311.7 ) $ (255.7 ) Interest rate collars 500.0 12.15 15.3 1.7 (8.4 ) Swaptions 68.5 1.16 0.1 0.5 Futures (2) 0.8 0.24 Total $ 20,372.3 $ (346.5 ) $ (309.9 ) $ (263.6 ) (1)Based on maturity date. (2)We use U.S. Treasury futures to manage our over/under commitment position, and our position in these contracts changes daily. Our selection of a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase or decrease in interest rates is a hypothetical rate scenario we use to determine potential risk. While a 100 basis point immediate, parallel increase or decrease does not represent our view of future market changes, it is a near term reasonably possible hypothetical change that illustrates the potential impact of such events. While these fair value measurements provide a representation of interest rate sensitivity, they are based on our derivative portfolio exposures at a point in time and may not be representative of future market results. These exposures will change as a result of ongoing derivative transactions. Foreign Currency Risk Foreign currency risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. This risk arises from foreign currency denominated funding agreements issued to nonqualified institutional investors in the international market, foreign currency denominated fixed maturities and our international operations. We estimate that as of December 31, 2010, a 10% immediate unfavorable change in each of the foreign currency exchange rates to which we are exposed would result in no material change to the net fair value of our foreign currency denominated instruments identified above because we effectively hedge foreign currency denominated instruments to minimize exchange rate impacts, which is consistent with our estimate as of December 31, 2009. However, fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates do affect the translation of operating earnings and equity of our international operations into our consolidated financial statements. For our Principal International segment, we estimate that a 10% immediate unfavorable change in each of the foreign currency exchange rates to which we were exposed would have resulted in a $161.6 million, or 10%, reduction in the total equity excluding noncontrolling interests of our international operations as of December 31, 2010, as compared to an estimated $135.7 million, or 10%, reduction as of December 31, 2009. We estimate that a 10% unfavorable change in the average foreign currency exchange rates to which we were exposed through our international operations would have resulted in a $14.8 million, or 11%, reduction in the operating earnings of our international operations for the year ended December 31, 2010, as compared to an estimated $12.8 million, or 11%, reduction for the year ended December 31, 2009. The selection of a 10% immediate unfavorable change in all currency exchange rates should not be construed as a prediction by us of future market events, but rather as an illustration of the potential impact of such an event. These exposures will change as a result of a change in the size and mix of our foreign operations. Use of Derivatives to Manage Foreign Currency Risk. The foreign currency risk on funding agreements and fixed maturities is mitigated by using currency swaps that swap the foreign currency interest and principal payments to our functional currency. The notional amount of our currency swap agreements associated with foreign denominated liabilities was $2,995.4 million and $3,386.0 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. The notional amount of our currency swap agreements associated with foreign denominated fixed maturities was $1,558.5 million and $1,867.2 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. With regard to our international operations, we attempt to do as much of our business as possible in the functional currency of the country of operation. At times, however, we are unable to do so, and in these cases, we use foreign exchange derivatives to economically hedge the resulting risks. Our operations in Chile had currency swaps with a notional amount of $61.3 million and $31.2 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, which were used to swap cash flows on U.S. dollar denominated bonds to a local currency. Chile also utilized currency forwards with a 79 Table of Contents notional amount of $72.3 million and $91.5 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, in order to mitigate currency exposure related to bonds denominated in currencies other than Chilean pesos. Additionally, from time to time we take measures to hedge our net equity investments in our foreign subsidiaries from currency risks. There were no outstanding net equity investment hedges in 2010 or 2009. Equity Risk Equity risk is the risk that we will incur economic losses due to adverse fluctuations in a particular common stock. As of December 31, 2010 and 2009, the fair value of our equity securities was $486.8 million and $435.5 million, respectively. As of December 31, 2010, a 10% decline in the value of the equity securities would result in an unrealized loss of $48.7 million, as compared to an estimated unrealized loss of $43.6 million as of December 31, 2009. We are also exposed to the risk that asset based fees decrease as a result of declines in assets under management due to change in investment prices and the risk that asset management fees calculated by reference to performance could be lower. We estimate that an immediate 10% decline in the Standard & Poors index, followed by a 2% per quarter increase would reduce our annual operating earnings by approximately four to six percent. The risk of decreased asset based and asset management fees could also impact our estimates of total gross profits used as a basis for amortizing deferred policy acquisition costs and other actuarial balances. For further discussion, see Item 7. "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Deferred Policy Acquisition Costs and Other Actuarial Balances." The selection of a 10% unfavorable change in the equity markets should not be construed as a prediction by us of future market events, but rather as an illustration of the potential impact of such an event. Our exposure will change as a result of changes in our mix of business. We also have equity risk associated with (1) fixed deferred annuity contracts that credit interest to customers based on changes in an external equity index; (2) variable annuity contracts that have a GMWB rider that allows the customer to receive at least the principal deposit back through withdrawals of a specified annual amount, even if the account value is reduced to zero; (3) variable annuity contacts that have a GMDB that allows the death benefit to be paid, even if the account value has fallen below the GMDB amount; (4) investment type contracts in which the return is tied to an external equity index and (5) investment type contracts in which the return is subject to minimum contractual guarantees. We are also subject to equity risk based upon the assets that support our benefit plans. For further discussion of equity risk associated with these plans, see Item 7. "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates Benefit Plans." Use of Derivatives to Manage Equity Risk. We economically hedge the fixed deferred annuity product, where the interest credited is linked to an external equity index, by purchasing options that match the products profile. We economically hedge the GMWB exposure, which includes interest rate risk and equity risk, using futures, options and interest rate swaps. We economically hedge the investment contract exposure to an external equity index using equity call options. The fair value of both the GMWB embedded derivative and associated hedging instruments are sensitive to financial market conditions and the variance related to the change in fair value of these items for a given period is largely dependent on market conditions at the end of the period. We recognized a pre tax gain (loss) on the derivatives used to economically hedge our GMWB market risk of $(21.2) million and $(191.7) million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We recognized a pre tax gain (loss) on the change in fair value of the GMWB embedded derivative that is primarily related to market risk impacts, of $16.2 million and $197.5 million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Additionally, we recognized a pre tax gain (loss) on the change in value of the GMWB liability, including the embedded derivative, of $(13.7) million and $(196.9) million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, primarily related to incorporating a spread reflecting our own creditworthiness. We reflect the actual and expected changes in value of the GMWB embedded derivative and the associated hedging instruments in our estimated gross profits, which resulted in a pre tax increase (decrease) in DPAC amortization of $9.4 million and $(78.6) million for the years ended December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Credit Risk Credit risk relates to the uncertainty associated with the continued ability of a given obligor to make timely payments of principal and interest. Our ability to manage credit risk is essential to our business and our profitability. See Item 7. "Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations Investments" for additional information about credit risk. Use of Derivatives to Diversify or Hedge Credit Risk. We purchase credit default swaps to hedge credit exposures in our investment portfolio. We sell credit default swaps to offer credit protection to investors. When selling credit protection, if there is an event of default by the referenced name, we are obligated to pay the counterparty the referenced amount of the contract and receive in return the referenced security. For further information on credit derivatives sold, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 5, Derivative Financial Instruments" under the caption, "Credit Derivatives Sold." 80 Table of Contents We economically hedged credit exposure in our portfolio by purchasing credit default swaps with a notional amount of $374.5 million and $448.5 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. We had credit exposure through credit default swaps with a notional amount of $140.0 million and $15.0 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively, by investing in various tranches of synthetic collateralized debt obligations. In addition, we sold credit default swaps creating replicated assets with a notional amount of $967.9 million and $1,122.9 million as of December 31, 2010 and 2009, respectively. Derivative Counterparty Risk In conjunction with our use of derivatives, we are exposed to counterparty risk, or the risk that the counterparty fails to perform the terms of the derivative contract. We actively manage this risk by: obtaining approval of all new counterparties by the Investment Committee; establishing exposure limits that take into account non derivative exposure we have with the counterparty as well as derivative exposure; performing similar credit analysis prior to approval on each derivatives counterparty that we do when lending money on a long term basis; diversifying our risk across numerous approved counterparties; implementing credit support annex (collateral) agreements ("CSAs") with majority of counterparties to further limit counterparty exposures, which provide for netting of exposures; limiting exposure to A+ credit or better for counterparties without CSAs; conducting stress test analysis to determine the maximum exposure created during the life of a prospective transaction and daily monitoring of counterparty credit ratings, exposures and associated collateral levels. We believe the risk of incurring losses due to nonperformance by our counterparties is manageable. For further information on derivatives, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 5, Derivative Financial Instruments." Based on our accounting policy, our disclosed exposure measures the fair value of derivatives that have become favorable to us and, therefore, is a combined credit exposure if all of the involved counterparties failed to fulfill their obligations. In the hypothetical scenario where all of our counterparties fail to fulfill their obligations, our exposure would be $1,177.0 million; however, including collateral received our exposure would be reduced to $927.8 million at December 31, 2010. For further information on derivative exposure, see Item 8. "Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, Note 5, Derivative Financial Instruments" under the caption, "Exposure." We manage our exposure on a net basis, whereby we net positive and negative exposures for each counterparty with agreements in place. Netting positive and negative exposures would yield an exposure of $315.3 million, which is reduced to $66.1 million with pledged collateral at December 31, 2010. As of December 31, 2010, we held total collateral of $249.2 million in the form of cash and securities and we posted $376.8 million in cash and securities as collateral to our counterparties. We have not incurred any material losses on derivative financial instruments due to counterparty nonperformance. As a result of our management of our counterparty risk and the collateralization of our derivative portfolio, any deterioration in our derivative counterparties credit would not materially impact our financial statements as of December 31, 2010. 81 Table of Contents  
 
