FILE:LUV/LUV-8K-20071004165006.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Table of Contents
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
Table of Contents
Item 1.01 Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement.
On October 3, 2007, Southwest Airlines Co. ("Southwest") and Wilmington Trust Company ("Wilmington"), as subordination agent and pass through trustee under two pass through trusts newly formed by Southwest (the "Trustee"), entered into 16 separate but substantially identical Participation Agreements, dated as of October 3, 2007 (each a "Participation Agreement" and together the "Participation Agreements"). The Participation Agreements provide for the issuance by Southwest of equipment notes (the "Equipment Notes") in the aggregate principal amount of $500,000,000, secured by 16 aircraft (the "Aircraft") owned by Southwest. Pursuant to the Participation Agreements, the Trustee for each pass through trust agreed to purchase Equipment Notes issued under a Trust Indenture and Mortgage between Southwest and Wilmington as mortgagee (each an "Indenture" and, collectively, the "Indentures") with respect to each Aircraft.
Each Indenture contemplates the issuance of Equipment Notes in two series: Series A, bearing interest at the rate of 6.15% per annum, and Series B, bearing interest at the rate of 6.65% per annum, in the aggregate principal amount equal to $412,100,000, in the case of Series A Equipment Notes, and $87,900,000, in the case of Series B Equipment Notes. The Equipment Notes were issued by the Trustee for each pass through trust using the proceeds from the sale of Pass Through Certificates, Series 2007-1A, and Pass Through Certificates, Series 2007-1B (collectively, the "Certificates").
The interest on the Equipment Notes is payable semiannually on each February 1 and August 1, beginning on February 1, 2008. The principal payments on Equipment Notes are scheduled on February 1 and August 1 in certain years, beginning on February 1, 2008. The final payments on the Equipment Notes are expected to occur on August 1, 2022. Maturity of the Equipment Notes may be accelerated upon the occurrence of Events of Default, including failure by Southwest to make payments under the applicable Indenture when due or to comply with certain covenants, as well as certain bankruptcy events involving Southwest. The Equipment Notes issued with respect to each Aircraft are secured by a lien on such Aircraft and also cross-collateralized by the other Aircraft.
certain
The Certificates were registered for offer and sale pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the "Securities Act"), under Southwest's shelf registration on Form S-3 (File No. 333-126738)(the "Registration Statement"). For a more detailed description of the agreements and instruments entered into by Southwest with respect to the Certificates, see the disclosure under the captions "Description of the Certificates," "Description of the Liquidity Facility for Class A Certificates," "Description of the Intercreditor Agreement," "Description of the Equipment Notes," and "Underwriting," contained in Southwest's final Prospectus Supplement, dated September 19, 2007 (the "Prospectus Supplement"), to the Prospectus, dated September 26, 2005 (the "Prospectus"), filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September  20, 2007, pursuant to Rule 424(b) under the Securities Act, which disclosure is hereby incorporated herein by reference.
This Current Report is also being filed for the purpose of filing as exhibits to the Registration Statement the documents listed in Item 9.01 below.
Item 2.03 Creation of Direct Financial Obligation.
See Item 1.01
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits. The Exhibit Index attached to this Current Report is hereby incorporated by reference. The documents listed on the Exhibit Index are filed as Exhibits with reference to the Registration Statement. The Registration Statement and the Prospectus Supplement to the Prospectus relate to the offering of the Certificates.
Table of Contents
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
Table of Contents
 

 
Exhibit 4.3
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
          This Trust Supplement No. 2007-1A, dated as of October 3, 2007 (herein called the ""), between Southwest Airlines Co., a Texas corporation (the ""), and Wilmington Trust Company (the ""), to the Pass Through Trust Agreement, dated as of July 1, 2005, between the Company and the Trustee (the "").
Trust Supplement
Company
Trustee
Basic Agreement
          WHEREAS, the Basic Agreement, unlimited as to the aggregate principal amount of Certificates (unless otherwise specified herein, capitalized terms used herein without definition having the respective meanings specified in the Basic Agreement) which may be issued thereunder, has heretofore been executed and delivered;
          WHEREAS, pursuant to each Indenture, the Company proposes to issue, on a recourse basis, Equipment Notes each secured by one of sixteen aircraft (each, an "Aircraft") owned by the Company;
          WHEREAS, the Trustee hereby declares the creation of this Southwest Airlines Pass Through Trust 2007-1A (the "") for the benefit of the Applicable Certificateholders, and the initial Applicable Certificateholders as the grantors of the Applicable Trust, by their respective acceptances of the Applicable Certificates, join in the creation of the Applicable Trust with the Trustee;
Applicable Trust
          WHEREAS, all Certificates to be issued by the Applicable Trust will evidence fractional undivided interests in the Applicable Trust and will convey no rights, benefits or interests in respect of any property other than the Trust Property;
          WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Basic Agreement as supplemented by this Trust Supplement (the "") and each Participation Agreement, the Trustee on behalf of the Applicable Trust (using a portion of the proceeds from the sale of the Applicable Certificates, shall purchase one or more Equipment Notes having the same interest rate as, and final maturity date not later than the final Regular Distribution Date of, the Applicable Certificates issued hereunder and shall hold such Equipment Notes in trust for the benefit of the Applicable Certificateholders;
Agreement
          WHEREAS, all of the conditions and requirements necessary to make this Trust Supplement, when duly executed and delivered, a valid, binding and legal instrument in accordance with its terms and for the purposes herein expressed, have been done, performed and fulfilled, and the execution and delivery of this Trust Supplement in the form and with the terms hereof have been in all respects duly authorized;
          WHEREAS, this Trust Supplement is subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and shall, to the extent applicable, be governed by such provisions;
          NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises herein, it is agreed between the Company and the Trustee as follows:
 
          Section 1.01. . There is hereby created a series of certificates to be issued, under the Agreement to be known as "Southwest Airlines Pass Through Certificates, Series 2007-1A" (hereinafter defined as the "Applicable Certificates"). Each Applicable Certificate represents a fractional undivided interest in the Applicable Trust created hereby. The Applicable Certificates shall be the only instruments evidencing a fractional undivided interest in the Applicable Trust.
The Certificates
          The terms and conditions applicable to the Applicable Certificates are as follows:
     (a) The aggregate principal amount of the Applicable Certificates that shall be authenticated under the Agreement is $412,100,000 and subject to Section 5.01 of this Trust Supplement and except for Applicable Certificates authenticated and delivered under Sections 3.03, 3.04, 3.05 and 3.06 of the Basic Agreement, no Applicable Certificates shall be authenticated under the Agreement.
     (b) The Regular Distribution Dates with respect to any payment of Scheduled Payments means February 1 and August 1 of each year, commencing on February 1, 2008, until payment of all of the Scheduled Payments to be made under the Equipment Notes has been made.
     (c) The Special Distribution Dates with respect to the Applicable Certificates means any Business Day on which a Special Payment is to be distributed pursuant to the Agreement.
     (d) (i) The Applicable Certificates shall be in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by the Agreement or as the Trustee may deem appropriate to reflect the fact that the Applicable Certifications are being issued under this Trust Supplement. Any Person acquiring or accepting an Applicable Certificate or an interest therein will, by such acquisition or acceptance, be deemed to represent and warrant to and for the benefit of the Company that either (i) the assets of an employee benefit plan subject to Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"), or of a plan subject to Section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), have not been used to purchase or hold Applicable Certificates or an interest therein or (ii) the purchase and holding of Applicable Certificates or an interest therein are exempt from the prohibited transaction restrictions of ERISA and the Code pursuant to one or more prohibited transaction statutory or administrative exemptions.
     (ii) The Applicable Certificates shall be Book-Entry Certificates and shall be subject to the conditions set forth in the Blanket Issuer Letter of Representations dated September 16, 2004 between the Company and the Clearing Agency.
 
     (e) The "Participation Agreements" as defined in this Trust Supplement are the "Note Purchase Agreements" referred to in the Basic Agreement.
     (f) The Applicable Certificates are subject to the Intercreditor Agreement.
     (g) The Applicable Certificates are entitled to the benefits of the Liquidity Facility.
     (h) The Responsible Party is the Company.
     (i) The date referred to in clause (i) of the definition of the term "PTC Event of Default" in the Basic Agreement is the Final Maturity Date.
     (j) The "particular sections of the Note Purchase Agreement", for purposes of clause (3) of Section 7.07 of the Basic Agreement, are Section 8.1 of each Participation Agreement.
     (k) The Equipment Notes to be acquired and held in the Applicable Trust, and the related Aircraft and Note Documents, are described in the related Participation Agreement.
          Section 2.01. . For all purposes of the Basic Agreement as supplemented by this Trust Supplement, the following capitalized terms have the following meanings (any term used herein which is defined in both this Trust Supplement and the Basic Agreement shall have the meaning assigned thereto in this Trust Supplement for purposes of the Basic Agreement as supplemented by this Trust Supplement):
Definitions
     : Means the Basic Agreement, as supplemented by this Trust Supplement.
Agreement
     : Means each of the Aircraft in respect of which a Participation Agreement is entered into on the date hereof (or any substitute aircraft, including engines therefor, owned by the Company and securing one or more Equipment Notes).
Aircraft
     : Has the meaning specified in Section 1.01 of this Trust Supplement and includes any Certificate issued in exchange therefor or replacement thereof pursuant to the Agreement.
Applicable Certificate
     : Means the Person in whose name an Applicable Certificate is registered on the Register for the Applicable Certificates.
Applicable Certificateholder
 
     : Has the meaning specified in Section 5.01(b) of this Trust Supplement.
Applicable Participation Agreement
     : Has the meaning specified in the recitals hereto.
Applicable Trust
     : Has the meaning specified in the first paragraph of this Trust Supplement.
Basic Agreement
     : Means The Boeing Company.
Boeing
     : Means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which commercial banks are required or authorized to close in Dallas, Texas, New York, New York, or, so long as any Applicable Certificate is Outstanding, the city and state in which the Trustee, the Subordination Agent or any Loan Trustee maintains its Corporate Trust Office or receives and disburses funds.
Business Day
     : Has the meaning specified in the Intercreditor Agreement.
Certificate
     : Means that a Southwest Bankruptcy Event has occurred and is continuing and the following events have occurred: (A) (i) the 60-day period specified in Section 1110(a)(2)(A) of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (the "60-Day Period") has expired and (ii) Southwest has not entered into one or more agreements under Section 1110(a)(2)(A) of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code to perform all of its obligations under all of the Indentures or, if it has entered into such agreements, has at any time failed to cure any default under any of the Indentures in accordance with Section 1110(a)(2)(B) of the Bankruptcy Code; or (B) if prior to the expiry of the 60-Day Period, Southwest shall have abandoned any Aircraft.
Certificate Buyout Event
     : Has the meaning specified in the Intercreditor Agreement.
Class
     : Has the meaning specified in the first paragraph of this Trust Supplement.
Company
     : Has the meaning specified in the Intercreditor Agreement.
Controlling Party
     : Means the earlier of (a) October 18, 2007 and (b) the date on which a Triggering Event occurs.
Cut-off Date
     : Means any Regular Distribution Date or Special Distribution Date as the context requires.
Distribution Date
     : Means February 1, 2024.
Final Maturity Date
     : Means each of the separate trust indentures and mortgages relating to the Aircraft, each as specified or described in Schedule I to the Intercreditor Agreement in each case as the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with its terms.
Indenture
 
     : Means the Intercreditor Agreement dated as of October 3, 2007 among the Trustee, the Other Trustees, the Liquidity Provider and Wilmington Trust Company, as Subordination Agent and as trustee thereunder, as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with its terms.
Intercreditor Agreement
     : Means the Underwriters, together with all subsequent beneficial owners of the Applicable Certificates.
Investors
     : Means, initially, the Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of October 3, 2007 relating to the Applicable Certificates, between the Liquidity Provider and Wilmington Trust Company, as Subordination Agent, as agent and trustee for the Applicable Trust, and, from and after the replacement of such agreement pursuant to the Intercreditor Agreement, the replacement liquidity facility therefor, in each case as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with their respective terms.
Liquidity Facility
     : Means, initially, BNP Paribas, a duly established under the laws of France, acting through its New York branch, and any replacements or successors therefor appointed in accordance with the Intercreditor Agreement.
Liquidity Provider
socit anonyme
     : Means the Equipment Notes with respect to the Applicable Certificates and, with respect to any such Equipment Note, the Indenture and the Participation Agreement relating to such Equipment Note.
Note Documents
     : Means (i) the Basic Agreement as supplemented by Trust Supplement No. 2007-1B dated as of the date hereof relating to Southwest Airlines Pass Through Trust 2007-1B, (ii) the Basic Agreement as supplemented by a Trust Supplement relating to any Additional Trust and (iii) the Basic Agreement as supplemented by a Trust Supplement relating to any Refinancing Trust.
Other Agreements
     : Means the trustees under the Other Agreements, and any successor or other trustee appointed as provided therein.
Other Trustees
     : Means the Southwest Airlines Pass Through Trust 2007-1B, an Additional Trust or Trusts, if any, and a Refinancing Trust or Trusts, if any, created by the Other Agreements.
Other Trusts
     : Means, with respect to each Aircraft, each Participation Agreement referred to in the related Indenture, as the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified in accordance with its terms.
Participation Agreement
     : Means, as of any date, (i) the original aggregate face amount of the Applicable Certificates, less (ii) the aggregate amount of all payments made as of such date in respect of such Applicable Certificates other than payments made in respect of interest or premium thereon or reimbursement of any costs or expenses incurred in
Pool Balance
 
connection therewith. The Pool Balance as of any date shall be computed after giving effect to any payment of principal of the Equipment Notes, or payment with respect to other Trust Property and the distribution thereof to be made on that date.
     : Means, as of any Distribution Date, the quotient (rounded to the seventh decimal place) computed by dividing (i) the Pool Balance by (ii) the original aggregate face amount of the Applicable Certificates. The Pool Factor as of any Distribution Date shall be computed after giving effect to any payment of principal of the Equipment Notes, or payment with respect to other Trust Property and the distribution thereof to be made on that date.
Pool Factor
     : Means the final Prospectus Supplement dated September 19, 2007 relating to the offering of the Applicable Certificates and the Class B Certificates issued under the Other Agreements.
Prospectus Supplement
     : Has the meaning specified in the Intercreditor Agreement.
Ratings Confirmation
     : Has the meaning specified in the Intercreditor Agreement.
Southwest Bankruptcy Event
     : Means any payment (other than a Scheduled Payment) in respect of, or any proceeds of, any Equipment Note or Collateral (as defined in each Indenture).
Special Payment
     : Has the meaning assigned to such term in the Intercreditor Agreement.
Triggering Event
     : Means (i) subject to the Intercreditor Agreement, the Equipment Notes held as the property of the Applicable Trust, all monies at any time paid thereon and all monies due and to become due thereunder, (ii) funds from time to time deposited in the Certificate Account and the Special Payments Account and, subject to the Intercreditor Agreement, any proceeds from the sale by the Trustee pursuant to Article VI of the Basic Agreement of any Equipment Note and (iii) all rights of the Applicable Trust and the Trustee, on behalf of the Applicable Trust, under the Intercreditor Agreement the Indentures, the Participation Agreements and the Liquidity Facility, including, without limitation, all rights to receive certain payments thereunder, and all monies paid to the Trustee on behalf of the Applicable Trust pursuant to the Intercreditor Agreement or the Liquidity Facility.
Trust Property
     : Has the meaning specified in the first paragraph of this trust supplement.
Trust Supplement
     : Has the meaning specified in the first paragraph of this Trust Supplement.
Trustee
 
     : Means, collectively, Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Comerica Securities, Inc., SG Americas Securities, LLC and UBS Securities LLC.
Underwriters
     : Means the Underwriting Agreement dated September 19, 2007 among the Underwriters and the Company, as the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with its terms.
Underwriting Agreement
          Section 3.01. . (a) On each Distribution Date, the Trustee will include with each distribution to Applicable Certificateholders of a Scheduled Payment or Special Payment, as the case may be, a statement setting forth the information provided below. Such statement shall set forth (per $1,000 face amount Applicable Certificate as to (ii) and (iii) below) the following information:
Statements to Applicable Certificateholders
     (i) the aggregate amount of funds distributed on such Distribution Date under the Agreement, indicating the amount allocable to each source, including any portion thereof paid by the Liquidity Provider;
     (ii) the amount of such distribution under the Agreement allocable to principal and the amount allocable to premium, if any;
     (iii) the amount of such distribution under the Agreement allocable to interest; and
     (iv) the Pool Balance and the Pool Factor.
          With respect to the Applicable Certificates registered in the name of a Clearing Agency or its nominee, on the Record Date prior to each Distribution Date, the Trustee will request that such Clearing Agency post on its Internet bulletin board a securities position listing setting forth the names of all Clearing Agency Participants reflected on such Clearing Agency's books as holding interests in the Applicable Certificates on such Record Date. On each Distribution Date, the Trustee will mail to each such Clearing Agency Participant the statement described above and will make available additional copies as requested by such Clearing Agency Participant for forwarding to holders of interests in the Applicable Certificates.
          (b) Within a reasonable period of time after the end of each calendar year but not later than the latest date permitted by law, the Trustee shall furnish to each Person who at any time during such calendar year was an Applicable Certificateholder of record a statement containing the sum of the amounts determined pursuant to clauses (a)(i), (a)(ii) and (a)(iii) above for such calendar year or, in the event such Person was an Applicable Certificateholder of record during a portion of such calendar year, for such portion of such year, and such other items as are
 
readily available to the Trustee and which an Applicable Certificateholder shall reasonably request as necessary for the purpose of such Applicable Certificateholder's preparation of its U.S. federal income tax returns. Such statement and such other items shall be prepared on the basis of information supplied to the Trustee by the Clearing Agency Participants and shall be delivered by the Trustee to such Clearing Agency Participants to be available for forwarding by such Clearing Agency Participants to the holders of interests in the Applicable Certificates in the manner described in Section 3.01(a) of this Trust Supplement.
          (c) Promptly following the date of any early redemption or purchase of, or any default in the payment of principal or interest in respect of, any of the Equipment Notes held in the Applicable Trust, the Trustee shall furnish to Applicable Certificateholders of record on such date a statement setting forth (x) the expected Pool Balances for each subsequent Regular Distribution Date, (y) the related Pool Factors for such Regular Distribution Dates and (z) the expected principal distribution schedule of the Equipment Notes, in the aggregate, held as Trust Property at the date of such notice.
          (d) The Trustee shall provide promptly to the Applicable Certificateholders all material non-confidential information received by the Trustee from the Company.
          (e) This Section 3.01 supersedes and replaces Section 4.03 of the Basic Agreement, with respect to the Applicable Trust.
          Section 3.02. . (a) The Trustee shall establish and maintain on behalf of the Applicable Certificateholders a Special Payments Account as one or more accounts, which shall be non-interest bearing except as provided in Section 4.04 of the Basic Agreement. The Trustee shall hold the Special Payments Account in trust for the benefit of the Applicable Certificateholders and shall make or permit withdrawals therefrom only as provided in the Agreement. On each day when one or more Special Payments are made to the Trustee under the Intercreditor Agreement, the Trustee, upon receipt thereof, shall immediately deposit the aggregate amount of such Special Payments in the Special Payments Account.
Special Payments Account
          (b) This Section 3.02 supersedes and replaces Section 4.01(b) of the Basic Agreement in its entirety, with respect to the Applicable Trust.
          Section 3.03. . (a) On each Special Distribution Date with respect to any Special Payment or as soon thereafter as the Trustee has confirmed receipt of any Special Payments due on the Equipment Notes held (subject to the Intercreditor Agreement) in the Applicable Trust or realized upon the sale of such Equipment Notes, the Trustee shall distribute out of the Special Payments Account the entire amount of such Special Payment deposited therein pursuant to Section 3.02(a) of this Trust Supplement. There shall be so distributed to each Applicable Certificateholder of record on the Record Date with respect to such Special Distribution Date (other than as provided in Section 7.01 of this Trust Supplement concerning the final distribution) by check mailed to such Applicable Certificateholder, at the address appearing in the Register, such Applicable Certificateholder's pro rata share (based on the Fractional Undivided Interest in the Applicable Trust held by such Applicable Certificateholder) of the total amount in the Special Payments Account on account of
Distributions from Special Payments Account
 
such Special Payment, except that, with respect to Applicable Certificates registered on the Record Date in the name of a Clearing Agency (or its nominee), such distribution shall be made by wire transfer in immediately available funds to the account designated by such Clearing Agency (or such nominee).
          (b) The Trustee shall, at the expense of the Company, cause notice of each Special Payment to be mailed to each Applicable Certificateholder at his address as it appears in the Register. In the event of redemption or purchase of Equipment Notes held in the Applicable Trust, such notice shall be mailed not less than 15 days prior to the Special Distribution Date for the Special Payment resulting from such redemption or purchase, which Special Distribution Date shall be the date of such redemption or purchase. In the case of any other Special Payments, such notice shall be mailed as soon as practicable after the Trustee has confirmed that it has received funds for such Special Payment, stating the Special Distribution Date for such Special Payment which shall occur not less than 15 days after the date of such notice and as soon as practicable thereafter. Notices mailed by the Trustee shall set forth:
     (i) the Special Distribution Date and the Record Date therefor (except as otherwise provided in Section 7.01 of this Trust Supplement),
     (ii) the amount of the Special Payment for each $1,000 face amount Applicable Certificate and the amount thereof constituting principal, premium, if any, and interest,
     (iii) the reason for the Special Payment, and
     (iv) if the Special Distribution Date is the same date as a Regular Distribution Date, the total amount to be received on such date for each $1,000 face amount Applicable Certificate.
If the amount of premium, if any, payable upon the redemption or purchase of an Equipment Note has not been calculated at the time that the Trustee mails notice of a Special Payment, it shall be sufficient if the notice sets forth the other amounts to be distributed and states that any premium received will also be distributed.
          If any redemption of the Equipment Notes held in the Trust is canceled, the Trustee, as soon as possible after learning thereof, shall cause notice thereof to be mailed to each Applicable Certificateholder at its address as it appears on the Register.
          (b) This Section 3.03 supersedes and replaces Section 4.02(b) and Section 4.02(c) of the Basic Agreement in their entirety, with respect to the Applicable Trust.
          Section 3.04. . Section 3.09 of the Basic Agreement shall be amended, with respect to the Applicable Trust, by deleting the phrase "the Owner Trustees or the Owner Participants" in the second sentence thereof and adding in lieu thereof "the Liquidity Provider".
Limitation of Liability for Payments
 
          Section 4.01. . (a) By acceptance of its Applicable Certificate, each Applicable Certificateholder agrees that at any time after the occurrence and during the continuation of a Certificate Buyout Event:
Purchase Rights of Certificateholders
     (i) each Class B Certificateholder (other than the Company or any of its Affiliates) shall have the right to purchase all, but not less than all, of the Applicable Certificates upon 15 days' written notice to the Trustee and each other Class B Certificateholder, on the third Business Day next following the expiry of such 15-day notice period, that (A) if prior to the end of such 15-day period any other Class B Certificateholder (other than the Company or any of its Affiliates) notifies such purchasing Class B Certificateholder that such other Class B Certificateholder wants to participate in such purchase, then such other Class B Certificateholder (other than the Company or any of its Affiliates) may join with the purchasing Class B Certificateholder to purchase all, but not less than all, of the Applicable Certificates pro rata based on the Fractional Undivided Interest in the Class B Trust held by each such Class B Certificateholder and (B) if prior to the end of such 15-day period any other Class B Certificateholder fails to notify the purchasing Class B Certificateholder of such other Class B Certificateholder's desire to participate in such a purchase, then such other Class B Certificateholder shall lose its right to purchase the Applicable Certificates pursuant to this Section 4.01(a)(i);
provided
     (ii) if any Additional Certificates are issued pursuant to one or more Additional Trusts, each Additional Certificateholder (other than the Company or any of its Affiliates), shall have the right (which shall not expire upon any purchase of the Applicable Certificates pursuant to clause (i) above) to purchase all, but not less than all, of the Applicable Certificates, the Class B Certificates and any Additional Certificates ranked senior to the Additional Certificates held by the purchasing Additional Certificateholders upon 15 days' written notice to the Trustee, the Class B Trustee, any Additional Trustee with respect to Additional Certificates that rank senior to the Additional Certificates held by the purchasing Additional Certificateholders and each other Additional Certificateholder of the same Class, on the third Business Day next following the expiry of such 15-day notice period, that (A) if prior to the end of such 15-day period any other Additional Certificateholder of such Class (other than the Company or any of its Affiliates) notifies such purchasing Additional Certificateholder that such other Additional Certificateholder wants to participate in such purchase, then such other Additional Certificateholder (other than the Company or any of its Affiliates) may join with the purchasing Additional Certificateholder to purchase all, but not less than all, of the Applicable Certificates, the Class B Certificates and such senior Additional Certificates pro rata based on the Fractional Undivided Interest in the applicable Additional Trust held by each such Additional Certificateholder and (B) if prior to the end of such 15-day period any other Additional Certificateholder of such Class fails to notify the purchasing Additional Certificateholder of such other Additional
provided
 
Certificateholder's desire to participate in such a purchase, then such other Additional Certificateholder shall lose its right to purchase the Applicable Certificates, the Class B Certificates and such senior Additional Certificates pursuant to this Section 4.01(a)(ii); and
     (iii) if any Refinancing Certificates are issued, each Refinancing Certificateholder shall have the same right (subject to the same terms and conditions) to purchase Certificates pursuant to this Section 4.01(a) (and to receive notice in connection therewith) as the Certificateholders of the Class that such Refinancing Certificates refinanced.
          The purchase price with respect to the Applicable Certificates shall be equal to the Pool Balance of the Applicable Certificates, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the date of such purchase, without premium, but including any other amounts then due and payable to the Applicable Certificateholders under the Agreement, the Intercreditor Agreement or any Note Document or on or in respect of the Applicable Certificates; , , that no such purchase of Applicable Certificates shall be effective unless the purchaser(s) shall certify to the Trustee that contemporaneously with such purchase, such purchaser(s) is (are) purchasing, pursuant to the terms of the Agreement and the Other Agreements, (A) in the case of any purchase of the Applicable Certificates pursuant to clause (i) above, all of the Applicable Certificates or (B) in all other cases, the Applicable Certificates, the Class B Certificates, and, if applicable, the Additional Certificates that are senior to the securities held by such purchaser(s). Each payment of the purchase price of the Applicable Certificates referred to in the first sentence hereof shall be made to an account or accounts designated by the Trustee and each such purchase shall be subject to the terms of this Section 4.01. Each Applicable Certificateholder agrees by its acceptance of its Applicable Certificate that (at any time after the occurrence of a Certificate Buyout Event) it will, upon payment from such Class B Certificateholder(s), Additional Certificateholder(s) or Refinancing Certificateholders, as the case may be, of the purchase price set forth in the first sentence of this paragraph, (i) forthwith sell, assign, transfer and convey to the purchaser(s) thereof (without recourse, representation or warranty of any kind except for its own acts), all of the right, title, interest and obligation of such Applicable Certificateholder in the Agreement, the Intercreditor Agreement, the Liquidity Facility, the Note Documents and all Applicable Certificates held by such Applicable Certificateholder (excluding all right, title and interest under any of the foregoing to the extent such right, title or interest is with respect to an obligation not then due and payable as respects any action or inaction or state of affairs occurring prior to such sale) (and the purchaser shall assume all of such Applicable Certificateholder's obligations under the Agreement, the Intercreditor Agreement, the Liquidity Facility, the Note Documents and all such Applicable Certificates), and (ii) if such purchase occurs after a Record Date relating to any distribution and prior to or on the related Distribution Date, forthwith turn over to the purchaser(s) of its Applicable Certificate all amounts, if any, received by it on account of such distribution. The Applicable Certificates will be deemed to be purchased on the date payment of the purchase price is made notwithstanding the failure of the Applicable Certificateholders to deliver any Applicable Certificates and, upon such a purchase, (I) the only rights of the Applicable Certificateholders will be to deliver the Applicable Certificates to the purchaser(s) and receive the purchase price for such Applicable Certificates and (II) if the
provided
however
 
purchaser(s) shall so request, such Applicable Certificateholder will comply with all the provisions of Section 3.04 of the Basic Agreement to enable new Applicable Certificates to be issued to the purchaser in such denominations as it shall request. All charges and expenses in connection with the issuance of any such new Applicable Certificates shall be borne by the purchaser thereof.
          As used in this Section 4.01 and elsewhere in this Trust Supplement, the terms "Additional Certificate", "Additional Certificateholder", "Additional Equipment Notes", "Additional Trust", "Additional Trust Agreement", "Additional Trustee", "Class B Certificate", "Class B Certificateholder", "Class B Trust", "Class B Trust Agreement", "Class B Trustee", "Refinancing Certificates", "Refinancing Certificateholder", "Refinancing Equipment Notes" and "Refinancing Trust" shall have the respective meanings assigned to such terms in the Intercreditor Agreement.
          (b) This Section 4.01 supersedes and replaces Section 6.01(b) of the Basic Agreement, with respect to the Applicable Trust.
          Section 4.02. . Section 6.05 of the Basic Agreement shall be amended, with respect to the Applicable Trust, by deleting the phrase "and thereby annul any Direction given by such Certificateholders or the Trustee to such Loan Trustee with respect thereto," set forth in the first sentence thereof.
Amendment of Section 6.05 of the Basic Agreement
          Section 5.01. . (a) The Trustee is hereby directed (i) to execute and deliver the Intercreditor Agreement, each Participation Agreement and each Indenture on or prior to the Issuance Date, each in the form delivered to the Trustee by the Company, and (ii) subject to the respective terms thereof, to perform its obligations thereunder. Upon request of the Company and the satisfaction or waiver of the closing conditions specified in the Underwriting Agreement, the Trustee shall execute, deliver, authenticate, issue and sell Applicable Certificates in authorized denominations equaling in the aggregate the amount set forth, with respect to the Applicable Trust, in Schedule I to the Underwriting Agreement evidencing the entire ownership interest in the Applicable Trust, which amount equals the maximum aggregate principal amount of Equipment Notes which may be purchased by the Trustee pursuant to the Participation Agreements. Except as provided in Sections 3.03, 3.04, 3.05 and 3.06 of the Basic Agreement, the Trustee shall not execute, authenticate or deliver Applicable Certificates in excess of the aggregate amount specified in this paragraph. The provisions of this Section 5.01(a) supersede and replace the first sentence of Section 3.02(a) of the Basic Agreement, with respect to the Applicable Trust.
Delivery of Documents; Delivery Dates
          (b) On the Issuance Date, the Trustee shall, subject to the conditions set forth in Section 4 of each Participation Agreement, perform its obligations under the Participation Agreement (the "") and cause such certificates, documents and legal opinions relating to the Trustee to be duly delivered as required by the Applicable
Applicable Participation Agreement
 
Participation Agreement. Upon satisfaction of the conditions specified in the Applicable Participation Agreement, the Trustee shall purchase the applicable Equipment Notes using a portion of the proceeds of the sale of the Applicable Certificates. The purchase price of such Equipment Notes shall equal the principal amount of such Equipment Notes.
          (c) The Trustee acknowledges its acceptance of all right, title and interest in and to the Trust Property to be acquired pursuant to Section 5.01(b) of this Trust Supplement and each Applicable Participation Agreement, and declares that it holds and will hold such right, title and interest for the benefit of all present and future Applicable Certificateholders, upon the trusts set forth in the Agreement. By its acceptance of an Applicable Certificate, each initial Applicable Certificateholder, as a grantor of the Applicable Trust, joins with the Trustee in the creation of the Applicable Trust. The provisions of this Section 5.01(c) supersede and replace the provisions of Section 2.03 of the Basic Agreement, with respect to the Applicable Trust.
          Section 5.02. [Intentionally Omitted]
          Section 5.03. . (a) Subject to Section 5.04 of this Trust Supplement and Section 7.15 of the Basic Agreement, the Trustee shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or in respect of the validity or sufficiency of this Trust Supplement or the Participation Agreements or the due execution hereof or thereof by the Company or the other parties thereto (other than the Trustee), or for or in respect of the recitals and statements contained herein or therein, all of which recitals and statements are made solely by the Company, except that the Trustee hereby represents and warrants that each of this Trust Supplement, the Basic Agreement, each Applicable Certificate, the Intercreditor Agreement, and the Participation Agreements has been executed and delivered by one of its officers who is duly authorized to execute and deliver such document on its behalf.
The Trustee
          (b) Except as herein otherwise provided and except during the continuation of an Event of Default in respect of the Applicable Trust created hereby, no duties, responsibilities or liabilities are assumed, or shall be construed to be assumed, by the Trustee by reason of this Trust Supplement other than as set forth in the Agreement, and this Trust Supplement is executed and accepted on behalf of the Trustee, subject to all the terms and conditions set forth in the Agreement, as fully to all intents as if the same were herein set forth at length.
          Section 5.04. . The Trustee hereby represents and warrants that:
Representations and Warranties of the Trustee
     (a) the Trustee has full power, authority and legal right to execute, deliver and perform this Trust Supplement, the Intercreditor Agreement and the Note Documents to which it is a party and has taken all necessary action to authorize such execution, delivery and performance by it of this Trust Supplement, the Intercreditor Agreement and the Note Documents to which it is a party;
 
     (b) the execution, delivery and performance by the Trustee of this Trust Supplement, the Intercreditor Agreement and the Note Documents to which it is a party (i) will not violate any provision of any United States federal law or the law of the state of the United States where it is located governing the banking and trust powers of the Trustee or any order, writ, judgment, or decree of any court, arbitrator or governmental authority applicable to the Trustee or any of its assets, (ii) will not violate any provision of the articles of association or by-laws of the Trustee, and (iii) will not violate any provision of, or constitute, with or without notice or lapse of time, a default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien on any properties included in the Trust Property pursuant to the provisions of any mortgage, indenture, contract, agreement or other undertaking to which it is a party, which violation, default or lien could reasonably be expected to have an adverse effect on the Trustee's performance or ability to perform its duties hereunder or thereunder or on the transactions contemplated herein or therein;
     (c) the execution, delivery and performance by the Trustee of this Trust Supplement, the Intercreditor Agreement and the Note Documents to which it is a party will not require the authorization, consent, or approval of, the giving of notice to, the filing or registration with, or the taking of any other action in respect of, any governmental authority or agency of the United States or the state of the United States where it is located regulating the banking and corporate trust activities of the Trustee; and
     (d) this Trust Supplement, the Intercreditor Agreement and the Note Documents to which it is a party have been, or will be, as applicable, duly executed and delivered by the Trustee and constitute, or will constitute, as applicable, the legal, valid and binding agreements of the Trustee, enforceable against it in accordance with their respective terms; , , that enforceability may be limited by (i) applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally and (ii) general principles of equity.
provided
however
          Section 5.05. . The Trustee in its individual capacity agrees, in addition to the agreements contained in Section 7.17 of the Basic Agreement, that it will at its own cost and expense promptly take any action as may be necessary to duly discharge and satisfy in full any Trustee's Liens on or with respect to the Trust Property which is attributable to the Trustee in its individual capacity and which is unrelated to the transactions contemplated by the Intercreditor Agreement or the Participation Agreements.
Trustee Liens
          Section 6.01. [].
Reserved
          Section 6.02. . Without limitation of Section 9.01 of the Basic Agreement, under the terms of, and subject to the limitations contained in, Section 9.01 of the Basic Agreement, the
Supplemental Agreements Without Consent of Applicable Certificateholders
 
Company may (but will not be required to), and the Trustee (subject to Section 9.03 of the Basic Agreement) shall, at the Company's request, at any time and from time to time, (i) enter into one or more agreements supplemental to a Participation Agreement, for any of the purposes set forth in clauses (1) through (9) of such Section 9.01, and (without limitation of the foregoing or Section 9.01 of the Basic Agreement) (a) clauses (2) and (3) of such Section 9.01 shall also be deemed to include the Company's obligations under (in the case of clause (2)), and the Company's rights and powers conferred by (in the case of clause (3)), the Participation Agreements, and (b) references in clauses (4), (6) and (7) of such Section 9.01 to "any Intercreditor Agreement or any Liquidity Facility" shall also be deemed to refer to "the Intercreditor Agreement, the Liquidity Facility or the Participation Agreements", (ii) enter into one or more agreements supplemental to the Agreement, the Intercreditor Agreement or the Participation Agreements to provide for the formation of one or more Additional Trusts, the issuance of Additional Certificates, the purchase by any Additional Trust of applicable Additional Equipment Notes and other matters incidental thereto or otherwise contemplated by Section 2.01(b) of the Basic Agreement, subject to the provisions of Section 9.1 of the Intercreditor Agreement, and (iii) enter into one or more agreements supplemental to the Agreement to provide for the formation of one or more Refinancing Trusts, the issuance of Refinancing Certificates, the purchase by any Refinancing Trust of applicable Refinancing Equipment Notes and other matters incidental thereto or as otherwise contemplated by Section 2.01(b) of the Basic Agreement, subject to the provisions of Section 9.1(c) of the Intercreditor Agreement.
          Section 6.03. . Without limitation of Section 9.02 of the Basic Agreement, the provisions of Section 9.02 of the Basic Agreement shall apply to agreements or amendments for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of a Participation Agreement or modifying in any manner the rights and obligations of the Applicable Certificateholders under a Participation Agreement.
Supplemental Agreements with Consent of Applicable Certificateholders
          Section 7.01. . (a) The respective obligations and responsibilities of the Company and the Trustee with respect to the Applicable Trust shall terminate upon the distribution to all Applicable Certificateholders and the Trustee of all amounts required to be distributed to them pursuant to the Agreement and the disposition of all property held as part of the Trust Property; , , that in no event shall the Applicable Trust continue beyond one hundred ten (110) years following the date of the execution of this Trust Supplement.
Termination of the Applicable Trust
provided
however
          Notice of any termination, specifying the Distribution Date upon which the Applicable Certificateholders may surrender their Applicable Certificates to the Trustee for payment of the final distribution and cancellation, shall be mailed promptly by the Trustee to Applicable Certificateholders not earlier than the 60 day and not later than the 15 day next
th
th
 
preceding such final Distribution Date specifying (A) the Distribution Date upon which the proposed final payment of the Applicable Certificates will be made upon presentation and surrender of Applicable Certificates at the office or agency of the Trustee therein specified, (B) the amount of any such proposed final payment, and (C) that the Record Date otherwise applicable to such Distribution Date is not applicable, payments being made only upon presentation and surrender of the Applicable Certificates at the office or agency of the Trustee therein specified. The Trustee shall give such notice to the Registrar at the time such notice is given to Applicable Certificateholders. Upon presentation and surrender of the Applicable Certificates in accordance with such notice, the Trustee shall cause to be distributed to Applicable Certificateholders such final payments.
          In the event that all of the Applicable Certificateholders shall not surrender their Applicable Certificates for cancellation within six months after the date specified in the above-mentioned written notice, the Trustee shall give a second written notice to the remaining Applicable Certificateholders to surrender their Applicable Certificates for cancellation and receive the final distribution with respect thereto. No additional interest shall accrue on the Applicable Certificates after the Distribution Date specified in the first written notice. In the event that any money held by the Trustee for the payment of distributions on the Applicable Certificates shall remain unclaimed for two years (or such lesser time as the Trustee shall be satisfied, after sixty days' notice from the Company, is one month prior to the escheat period provided under applicable law) after the final distribution date with respect thereto, the Trustee shall pay to each Loan Trustee the appropriate amount of money relating to such Loan Trustee and shall give written notice thereof to the Company.
          (b) The provisions of this Section 7.01 supersede and replace the provisions of Section 11.01 of the Basic Agreement in its entirety, with respect to the Applicable Trust.
          Section 8.01. . Except and so far as herein expressly provided, all of the provisions, terms and conditions of the Basic Agreement are in all respects ratified and confirmed; and the Basic Agreement and this Trust Supplement shall be taken, read and construed as one and the same instrument. All replacements of provisions of, and other modifications of the Basic Agreement set forth in this Trust Supplement are solely with respect to the Applicable Trust.
Basic Agreement Ratified
          .
Section 8.02.
GOVERNING LAW
THE AGREEMENT AND THE APPLICABLE CERTIFICATES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
          Section 8.03. . This Trust Supplement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Execution in Counterparts
 
     Section 8.04. . The parties hereto intend that the Applicable Trust be classified for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a grantor trust under Subpart E, Part I of Subchapter J of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and not as a trust or association taxable as a corporation or as a partnership. Each Applicable Certificateholder and Investor, by its acceptance of its Applicable Certificate or a beneficial interest therein, agrees to treat the Applicable Trust as a grantor trust for all U.S. federal, state and local income tax purposes. The powers granted and obligations undertaken pursuant to the Agreement shall be so construed so as to further such intent.
Intention of Parties
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Trustee have caused this Trust Supplement to be duly executed by their respective officers thereto duly authorized, as of the day and year first written above.
 
Certificate No.
            
          [Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation (""), to Issuer or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or in such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.]
DTC
*
Evidencing A Fractional Undivided Interest In The Southwest Airlines Pass Through Trust 2007-1A, The Property Of Which Shall Include Certain Equipment Notes Each Secured By An Aircraft Owned By Southwest Airlines, Co.
     THIS CERTIFIES THAT , for value received, is the registered owner of a $ ( DOLLARS) Fractional Undivided Interest in the Southwest Airlines Pass Through Trust 2007-1A (the "") created by Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee (the ""), pursuant to a Pass Through Trust Agreement, dated as of July 1, 2005 (the ""), between the Trustee and Southwest Airlines, Co., a Texas corporation (the ""), as supplemented by Trust Supplement No. 2007-1A thereto, dated as of October 3, 2007 (the "" and, together with the Basic Agreement, the ""), between the Trustee and the
                     
                     
                                                                         
Trust
Trustee
Basic Agreement
Company
Trust Supplement
Agreement
 
 
Company, a summary of certain of the pertinent provisions of which is set forth below. To the extent not otherwise defined herein, the capitalized terms used herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Agreement. This Certificate is one of the duly authorized Certificates designated as "Southwest Airlines Pass Through Certificates, Series 2007-1A" (herein called the ""). This Certificate is issued under and is subject to the terms, provisions and conditions of the Agreement. By virtue of its acceptance hereof, the holder of this Certificate (the "" and, together with all other holders of Certificates issued by the Trust, the "") assents to and agrees to be bound by the provisions of the Agreement and the Intercreditor Agreement. The property of the Trust includes certain Equipment Notes and all rights of the Trust to receive payments under the Intercreditor Agreement and the Liquidity Facility (the ""). Each issue of the Equipment Notes is secured by, among other things, a security interest in an Aircraft owned by the Company.
Certificates
Certificateholder
Certificateholders
Trust Property
          The Certificates represent Fractional Undivided Interests in the Trust and the Trust Property and have no rights, benefits or interest in respect of any other separate trust established pursuant to the terms of the Basic Agreement for any other series of certificates issued pursuant thereto.
          Subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Agreement and the Intercreditor Agreement, from funds then available to the Trustee, there will be distributed on February 1 and August 1 of each year (a "") commencing February 1, 2008, to the Person in whose name this Certificate is registered at the close of business on the 15th day preceding the Regular Distribution Date, an amount in respect of the Scheduled Payments on the Equipment Notes due on such Regular Distribution Date, the receipt of which has been confirmed by the Trustee, equal to the product of the percentage interest in the Trust evidenced by this Certificate and an amount equal to the sum of such Scheduled Payments. Subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Agreement and the Intercreditor Agreement, in the event that Special Payments on the Equipment Notes are received by the Trustee, from funds then available to the Trustee, there shall be distributed on the applicable Special Distribution Date, to the Person in whose name this Certificate is registered at the close of business on the 15th day preceding the Special Distribution Date, an amount in respect of such Special Payments on the Equipment Notes, the receipt of which has been confirmed by the Trustee, equal to the product of the percentage interest in the Trust evidenced by this Certificate and an amount equal to the sum of such Special Payments so received. If a Regular Distribution Date or Special Distribution Date is not a Business Day, distribution shall be made on the immediately following Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on such Regular Distribution Date or Special Distribution Date and no interest shall accrue during the intervening period. The Trustee shall mail notice of each Special Payment and the Special Distribution Date therefor to the Certificateholder of this Certificate.
Regular Distribution Date
          Distributions on this Certificate will be made by the Trustee by check mailed to the Person entitled thereto, without presentation or surrender of this Certificate or the making of any notation hereon, except that with respect to Certificates registered on the Record Date in the name of a Clearing Agency (or its nominee), such distribution shall be made by wire transfer. Except as otherwise provided in the Agreement and notwithstanding the above, the final distribution on this Certificate will be made after notice mailed by the Trustee of the pendency of
 
such distribution and only upon presentation and surrender of this Certificate at the office or agency of the Trustee specified in such notice.
          The Certificates do not represent a direct obligation of, or an obligation guaranteed by, or an interest in, the Company or the Trustee or any affiliate thereof. The Certificates are limited in right of payment, all as more specifically set forth on the face hereof and in the Agreement. All payments or distributions made to Certificateholders under the Agreement shall be made only from the Trust Property and only to the extent that the Trustee shall have sufficient income or proceeds from the Trust Property to make such payments in accordance with the terms of the Agreement. Each Certificateholder of this Certificate, by its acceptance hereof, agrees that it will look solely to the income and proceeds from the Trust Property to the extent available for distribution to such Certificateholder as provided in the Agreement. This Certificate does not purport to summarize the Agreement and reference is made to the Agreement for information with respect to the interests, rights, benefits, obligations, privileges, and duties evidenced hereby. A copy of the Agreement may be examined during normal business hours at the principal office of the Trustee, and at such other places, if any, designated by the Trustee, by any Certificateholder upon request.
          The Agreement permits, with certain exceptions therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Certificateholders under the Agreement at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Certificateholders holding Certificates evidencing Fractional Undivided Interests aggregating not less than a majority in interest in the Trust. Any such consent by the Certificateholder of this Certificate shall be conclusive and binding on such Certificateholder and upon all future Certificateholders of this Certificate and of any Certificate issued upon the transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof whether or not notation of such consent is made upon this Certificate. The Agreement also permits the amendment thereof, in certain limited circumstances, without the consent of the Certificateholders of any of the Certificates.
          As provided in the Agreement and subject to certain limitations set forth therein, the transfer of this Certificate is registrable in the Register upon surrender of this Certificate for registration of transfer at the offices or agencies maintained by the Trustee in its capacity as Registrar, or by any successor Registrar, duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Trustee and the Registrar, duly executed by the Certificateholder hereof or such Certificateholder's attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Certificates of authorized denominations evidencing the same aggregate Fractional Undivided Interest in the Trust will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
          The Certificates are issuable only as registered Certificates without coupons in minimum denominations of $1,000 Fractional Undivided Interest and integral multiples thereof, except that one Certificate may be issued in a different denomination. As provided in the Agreement and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the Certificates are exchangeable for new Certificates of authorized denominations evidencing the same aggregate Fractional Undivided Interest in the Trust, as requested by the Certificateholder surrendering the same.
 
          No service charge will be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Trustee shall require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
          Each Certificateholder and Investor, by its acceptance of this Certificate or a beneficial interest herein, agrees to treat the Trust as a grantor trust for all U.S. federal, state and local income tax purposes.
          The Trustee, the Registrar, and any agent of the Trustee or the Registrar may treat the person in whose name this Certificate is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, and neither the Trustee, the Registrar, nor any such agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
          The obligations and responsibilities created by the Agreement and the Trust created thereby shall terminate upon the distribution to Certificateholders of all amounts required to be distributed to them pursuant to the Agreement and the disposition of all property held as part of the Trust Property.
          Any Person acquiring or accepting this Certificate or an interest herein will, by such acquisition or acceptance, be deemed to have represented and warranted to and for the benefit of the Company that either: (i) the assets of an employee benefit plan subject to Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (""), or of a plan subject to Section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), have not been used to purchase or hold this Certificate or an interest herein or (ii) the purchase and holding of this Certificate or an interest herein are exempt from the prohibited transaction restrictions of ERISA and the Code pursuant to one or more prohibited transaction statutory or administrative exemptions.
ERISA
Code
          THIS CERTIFICATE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
          Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee, by manual signature, this Certificate shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Agreement or be valid for any purpose.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Trustee has caused this Certificate to be duly executed.
 
          This is one of the Certificates referred to in the within-mentioned Agreement.

 
Exhibit 4.5
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
          This Trust Supplement No. 2007-1B, dated as of October 3, 2007 (herein called the ""), between Southwest Airlines Co., a Texas corporation (the ""), and Wilmington Trust Company (the ""), to the Pass Through Trust Agreement, dated as of July 1, 2005, between the Company and the Trustee (the "").
Trust Supplement
Company
Trustee
Basic Agreement
          WHEREAS, the Basic Agreement, unlimited as to the aggregate principal amount of Certificates (unless otherwise specified herein, capitalized terms used herein without definition having the respective meanings specified in the Basic Agreement) which may be issued thereunder, has heretofore been executed and delivered;
          WHEREAS, pursuant to each Indenture, the Company proposes to issue, on a recourse basis, Equipment Notes each secured by one of sixteen aircraft (each, an "Aircraft") owned by the Company;
          WHEREAS, the Trustee hereby declares the creation of this Southwest Airlines Pass Through Trust 2007-1B (the "") for the benefit of the Applicable Certificateholders, and the initial Applicable Certificateholders as the grantors of the Applicable Trust, by their respective acceptances of the Applicable Certificates, join in the creation of the Applicable Trust with the Trustee;
Applicable Trust
          WHEREAS, all Certificates to be issued by the Applicable Trust will evidence fractional undivided interests in the Applicable Trust and will convey no rights, benefits or interests in respect of any property other than the Trust Property;
          WHEREAS, pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Basic Agreement as supplemented by this Trust Supplement (the "") and each Participation Agreement, the Trustee on behalf of the Applicable Trust (using a portion of the proceeds from the sale of the Applicable Certificates, shall purchase one or more Equipment Notes having the same interest rate as, and final maturity date not later than the final Regular Distribution Date of, the Applicable Certificates issued hereunder and shall hold such Equipment Notes in trust for the benefit of the Applicable Certificateholders;
Agreement
          WHEREAS, all of the conditions and requirements necessary to make this Trust Supplement, when duly executed and delivered, a valid, binding and legal instrument in accordance with its terms and for the purposes herein expressed, have been done, performed and fulfilled, and the execution and delivery of this Trust Supplement in the form and with the terms hereof have been in all respects duly authorized;
          WHEREAS, this Trust Supplement is subject to the provisions of the Trust Indenture Act of 1939, as amended, and shall, to the extent applicable, be governed by such provisions;
          NOW THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises herein, it is agreed between the Company and the Trustee as follows:
 
          Section 1.01. . There is hereby created a series of certificates to be issued, under the Agreement to be known as "Southwest Airlines Pass Through Certificates, Series 2007-1B" (hereinafter defined as the ""). Each Applicable Certificate represents a fractional undivided interest in the Applicable Trust created hereby. The Applicable Certificates shall be the only instruments evidencing a fractional undivided interest in the Applicable Trust.
The Certificates
Applicable Certificates
          The terms and conditions applicable to the Applicable Certificates are as follows:
     (a) The aggregate principal amount of the Applicable Certificates that shall be authenticated under the Agreement is $87,900,000 and subject to Section 5.01 of this Trust Supplement and except for Applicable Certificates authenticated and delivered under Sections 3.03, 3.04, 3.05 and 3.06 of the Basic Agreement, no Applicable Certificates shall be authenticated under the Agreement.
     (b) The Regular Distribution Dates with respect to any payment of Scheduled Payments means February 1 and August 1 of each year, commencing on February 1, 2008, until payment of all of the Scheduled Payments to be made under the Equipment Notes has been made.
     (c) The Special Distribution Dates with respect to the Applicable Certificates means any Business Day on which a Special Payment is to be distributed pursuant to the Agreement.
     (d) (i) The Applicable Certificates shall be in the form attached hereto as Exhibit A with such appropriate insertions, omissions, substitutions and other variations as are required or permitted by the Agreement or as the Trustee may deem appropriate to reflect the fact that the Applicable Certifications are being issued under this Trust Supplement. Any Person acquiring or accepting an Applicable Certificate or an interest therein will, by such acquisition or acceptance, be deemed to represent and warrant to and for the benefit of the Company that either (i) the assets of an employee benefit plan subject to Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ("ERISA"), or of a plan subject to Section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"), have not been used to purchase or hold Applicable Certificates or an interest therein or (ii) the purchase and holding of Applicable Certificates or an interest therein are exempt from the prohibited transaction restrictions of ERISA and the Code pursuant to one or more prohibited transaction statutory or administrative exemptions.
     (ii) The Applicable Certificates shall be Book-Entry Certificates and shall be subject to the conditions set forth in the Blanket Issuer Letter of Representations dated September 16, 2004 between the Company and the Clearing Agency.
 
     (e) The "Participation Agreements" as defined in this Trust Supplement are the "Note Purchase Agreements" referred to in the Basic Agreement.
     (f) The Applicable Certificates are subject to the Intercreditor Agreement.
     (g) The Applicable Certificates are not entitled to the benefits of the Liquidity Facility.
     (h) The Responsible Party is the Company.
     (i) The date referred to in clause (i) of the definition of the term "PTC Event of Default" in the Basic Agreement is the Final Maturity Date.
     (j) The "particular sections of the Note Purchase Agreement", for purposes of clause (3) of Section 7.07 of the Basic Agreement, are Section 8.1 of each Participation Agreement.
     (k) The Equipment Notes to be acquired and held in the Applicable Trust, and the related Aircraft and Note Documents, are described in the related Participation Agreement.
          Section 2.01. . For all purposes of the Basic Agreement as supplemented by this Trust Supplement, the following capitalized terms have the following meanings (any term used herein which is defined in both this Trust Supplement and the Basic Agreement shall have the meaning assigned thereto in this Trust Supplement for purposes of the Basic Agreement as supplemented by this Trust Supplement):
Definitions
     : Means the Basic Agreement, as supplemented by this Trust Supplement.
Agreement
     : Means each of the Aircraft in respect of which a Participation Agreement is entered into on the date hereof (or any substitute aircraft, including engines therefor, owned by the Company and securing one or more Equipment Notes).
Aircraft
     : Has the meaning specified in Section 1.01 of this Trust Supplement and includes any Certificate issued in exchange therefor or replacement thereof pursuant to the Agreement.
Applicable Certificate
     : Means the Person in whose name an Applicable Certificate is registered on the Register for the Applicable Certificates.
Applicable Certificateholder
 
     : Has the meaning specified in Section 5.01(b) of this Trust Supplement.
Applicable Participation Agreement
     : Has the meaning specified in the recitals hereto.
Applicable Trust
     : Has the meaning specified in the first paragraph of this Trust Supplement.
Basic Agreement
     : Means The Boeing Company.
Boeing
     : Means any day other than a Saturday, a Sunday or a day on which commercial banks are required or authorized to close in Dallas, Texas, New York, New York, or, so long as any Applicable Certificate is Outstanding, the city and state in which the Trustee, the Subordination Agent or any Loan Trustee maintains its Corporate Trust Office or receives and disburses funds.
Business Day
     : Has the meaning specified in the Intercreditor Agreement.
Certificate
     : Means that a Southwest Bankruptcy Event has occurred and is continuing and the following events have occurred: (A) (i) the 60-day period specified in Section 1110(a)(2)(A) of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code (the "60-Day Period") has expired and (ii) Southwest has not entered into one or more agreements under Section 1110(a)(2)(A) of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code to perform all of its obligations under all of the Indentures or, if it has entered into such agreements, has at any time failed to cure any default under any of the Indentures in accordance with Section 1110(a)(2)(B) of the Bankruptcy Code; or (B) if prior to the expiry of the 60-Day Period, Southwest shall have abandoned any Aircraft.
Certificate Buyout Event
     : Has the meaning specified in the Intercreditor Agreement.
Class
     : Means, initially, BNP Paribas, a duly established under the laws of France acting through its New York branch, as liquidity provider under the Liquidity Facility, and any replacements or successors therefor appointed in accordance with the Intercreditor Agreement.
Class A Liquidity Provider
socit anonyme
     : Has the meaning specified in the first paragraph of this Trust Supplement.
Company
     : Has the meaning specified in the Intercreditor Agreement.
Controlling Party
     : Means the earlier of (a) October 18, 2007 and (b) the date on which a Triggering Event occurs.
Cut-off Date
     : Means any Regular Distribution Date or Special Distribution Date as the context requires.
Distribution Date
     : Means August 1, 2022.
Final Maturity Date
 
     : Means each of the separate trust indentures and mortgages relating to the Aircraft, each as specified or described in Schedule I to the Intercreditor Agreement in each case as the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with its terms.
Indenture
     : Means the Intercreditor Agreement dated as of October 3, 2007 among the Trustee, the Other Trustees, the Class A Liquidity Provider and Wilmington Trust Company, as Subordination Agent and as trustee thereunder, as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with its terms.
Intercreditor Agreement
     : Means the Underwriters, together with all subsequent beneficial owners of the Applicable Certificates.
Investors
     : Means, initially, the Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of October 3, 2007 relating to the Class A Certificates, between the Class A Liquidity Provider and Wilmington Trust Company, as Subordination Agent, as agent and trustee for the Class A Trust, and, from and after the replacement of such agreement pursuant to the Intercreditor Agreement, the replacement liquidity facility therefor, in each case as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with their respective terms.
Liquidity Facility
     : Means the Equipment Notes with respect to the Applicable Certificates and, with respect to any such Equipment Note, the Indenture and the Participation Agreement relating to such Equipment Note.
Note Documents
     : Means (i) the Basic Agreement as supplemented by Trust Supplement No. 2007-1A dated as of the date hereof relating to Southwest Airlines Pass Through Trust 2007-1A, (ii) the Basic Agreement as supplemented by a Trust Supplement relating to any Additional Trust and (iii) the Basic Agreement as supplemented by a Trust Supplement relating to any Refinancing Trust.
Other Agreements
     : Means the trustees under the Other Agreements, and any successor or other trustee appointed as provided therein.
Other Trustees
     : Means the Southwest Airlines Pass Through Trust 2007-1A, an Additional Trust or Trusts, if any, and a Refinancing Trust or Trusts, if any, created by the Other Agreements.
Other Trusts
     : Means, with respect to each Aircraft, each Participation Agreement referred to in the related Indenture, as the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified in accordance with its terms.
Participation Agreement
     : Means, as of any date, (i) the original aggregate face amount of the Applicable Certificates, less (ii) the aggregate amount of all payments made as of such date in respect of such Applicable Certificates other than payments made in respect of
Pool Balance
 
interest or premium thereon or reimbursement of any costs or expenses incurred in connection therewith. The Pool Balance as of any date shall be computed after giving effect to any payment of principal of the Equipment Notes, or payment with respect to other Trust Property and the distribution thereof to be made on that date.
     : Means, as of any Distribution Date, the quotient (rounded to the seventh decimal place) computed by dividing (i) the Pool Balance by (ii) the original aggregate face amount of the Applicable Certificates. The Pool Factor as of any Distribution Date shall be computed after giving effect to any payment of principal of the Equipment Notes, or payment with respect to other Trust Property and the distribution thereof to be made on that date.
Pool Factor
     : Means the final Prospectus Supplement dated September 19, 2007 relating to the offering of the Applicable Certificates and the Class A Certificates issued under the Other Agreements.
Prospectus Supplement
     : Has the meaning specified in the Intercreditor Agreement.
Ratings Confirmation
     : Has the meaning specified in the Intercreditor Agreement.
Southwest Bankruptcy Event
     : Means any payment (other than a Scheduled Payment) in respect of, or any proceeds of, any Equipment Note or Collateral (as defined in each Indenture).
Special Payment
     : Has the meaning assigned to such term in the Intercreditor Agreement.
Triggering Event
     : Means (i) subject to the Intercreditor Agreement, the Equipment Notes held as the property of the Applicable Trust, all monies at any time paid thereon and all monies due and to become due thereunder, (ii) funds from time to time deposited in the Certificate Account and the Special Payments Account and, subject to the Intercreditor Agreement, any proceeds from the sale by the Trustee pursuant to Article VI of the Basic Agreement of any Equipment Note and (iii) all rights of the Applicable Trust and the Trustee, on behalf of the Applicable Trust, under the Intercreditor Agreement, the Indentures and the Participation Agreements, including, without limitation, all rights to receive certain payments thereunder, and all monies paid to the Trustee on behalf of the Applicable Trust pursuant to the Intercreditor Agreement.
Trust Property
     : Has the meaning specified in the first paragraph of this trust supplement.
Trust Supplement
     : Has the meaning specified in the first paragraph of this Trust Supplement.
Trustee
 
     : Means, collectively, Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Comerica Securities, Inc., SG Americas Securities, LLC and UBS Securities LLC.
Underwriters
     : Means the Underwriting Agreement dated September 19, 2007 among the Underwriters and the Company, as the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with its terms.
Underwriting Agreement
          Section 3.01. . (a) On each Distribution Date, the Trustee will include with each distribution to Applicable Certificateholders of a Scheduled Payment or Special Payment, as the case may be, a statement setting forth the information provided below. Such statement shall set forth (per $1,000 face amount Applicable Certificate as to (ii) and (iii) below) the following information:
Statements to Applicable Certificateholders
     (i) the aggregate amount of funds distributed on such Distribution Date under the Agreement, indicating the amount allocable to each source;
     (ii) the amount of such distribution under the Agreement allocable to principal and the amount allocable to premium, if any;
     (iii) the amount of such distribution under the Agreement allocable to interest; and
     (iv) the Pool Balance and the Pool Factor.
          With respect to the Applicable Certificates registered in the name of a Clearing Agency or its nominee, on the Record Date prior to each Distribution Date, the Trustee will request that such Clearing Agency post on its Internet bulletin board a securities position listing setting forth the names of all Clearing Agency Participants reflected on such Clearing Agency's books as holding interests in the Applicable Certificates on such Record Date. On each Distribution Date, the Trustee will mail to each such Clearing Agency Participant the statement described above and will make available additional copies as requested by such Clearing Agency Participant for forwarding to holders of interests in the Applicable Certificates.
          (b) Within a reasonable period of time after the end of each calendar year but not later than the latest date permitted by law, the Trustee shall furnish to each Person who at any time during such calendar year was an Applicable Certificateholder of record a statement containing the sum of the amounts determined pursuant to clauses (a)(i), (a)(ii) and (a)(iii) above for such calendar year or, in the event such Person was an Applicable Certificateholder of record during a portion of such calendar year, for such portion of such year, and such other items as are readily available to the Trustee and which an Applicable Certificateholder shall reasonably
 
request as necessary for the purpose of such Applicable Certificateholder's preparation of its U.S. federal income tax returns. Such statement and such other items shall be prepared on the basis of information supplied to the Trustee by the Clearing Agency Participants and shall be delivered by the Trustee to such Clearing Agency Participants to be available for forwarding by such Clearing Agency Participants to the holders of interests in the Applicable Certificates in the manner described in Section 3.01(a) of this Trust Supplement.
          (c) Promptly following the date of any early redemption or purchase of, or any default in the payment of principal or interest in respect of, any of the Equipment Notes held in the Applicable Trust, the Trustee shall furnish to Applicable Certificateholders of record on such date a statement setting forth (x) the expected Pool Balances for each subsequent Regular Distribution Date, (y) the related Pool Factors for such Regular Distribution Dates and (z) the expected principal distribution schedule of the Equipment Notes, in the aggregate, held as Trust Property at the date of such notice.
          (d) The Trustee shall provide promptly to the Applicable Certificateholders all material non-confidential information received by the Trustee from the Company.
          (e) This Section 3.01 supersedes and replaces Section 4.03 of the Basic Agreement, with respect to the Applicable Trust.
          Section 3.02. . (a) The Trustee shall establish and maintain on behalf of the Applicable Certificateholders a Special Payments Account as one or more accounts, which shall be non-interest bearing except as provided in Section 4.04 of the Basic Agreement. The Trustee shall hold the Special Payments Account in trust for the benefit of the Applicable Certificateholders and shall make or permit withdrawals therefrom only as provided in the Agreement. On each day when one or more Special Payments are made to the Trustee under the Intercreditor Agreement, the Trustee, upon receipt thereof, shall immediately deposit the aggregate amount of such Special Payments in the Special Payments Account.
Special Payments Account
          (b) This Section 3.02 supersedes and replaces Section 4.01(b) of the Basic Agreement in its entirety, with respect to the Applicable Trust.
          Section 3.03. . (a) On each Special Distribution Date with respect to any Special Payment or as soon thereafter as the Trustee has confirmed receipt of any Special Payments due on the Equipment Notes held (subject to the Intercreditor Agreement) in the Applicable Trust or realized upon the sale of such Equipment Notes, the Trustee shall distribute out of the Special Payments Account the entire amount of such Special Payment deposited therein pursuant to Section 3.02(a) of this Trust Supplement. There shall be so distributed to each Applicable Certificateholder of record on the Record Date with respect to such Special Distribution Date (other than as provided in Section 7.01 of this Trust Supplement concerning the final distribution) by check mailed to such Applicable Certificateholder, at the address appearing in the Register, such Applicable Certificateholder's pro rata share (based on the Fractional Undivided Interest in the Applicable Trust held by such Applicable Certificateholder) of the total amount in the Special Payments Account on account of such Special Payment, except that, with respect to Applicable Certificates registered on the
Distributions from Special Payments Account
 
Record Date in the name of a Clearing Agency (or its nominee), such distribution shall be made by wire transfer in immediately available funds to the account designated by such Clearing Agency (or such nominee).
          (b) The Trustee shall, at the expense of the Company, cause notice of each Special Payment to be mailed to each Applicable Certificateholder at his address as it appears in the Register. In the event of redemption or purchase of Equipment Notes held in the Applicable Trust, such notice shall be mailed not less than 15 days prior to the Special Distribution Date for the Special Payment resulting from such redemption or purchase, which Special Distribution Date shall be the date of such redemption or purchase. In the case of any other Special Payments, such notice shall be mailed as soon as practicable after the Trustee has confirmed that it has received funds for such Special Payment, stating the Special Distribution Date for such Special Payment which shall occur not less than 15 days after the date of such notice and as soon as practicable thereafter. Notices mailed by the Trustee shall set forth:
     (i) the Special Distribution Date and the Record Date therefor (except as otherwise provided in Section 7.01 of this Trust Supplement),
     (ii) the amount of the Special Payment for each $1,000 face amount Applicable Certificate and the amount thereof constituting principal, premium, if any, and interest,
     (iii) the reason for the Special Payment, and
     (iv) if the Special Distribution Date is the same date as a Regular Distribution Date, the total amount to be received on such date for each $1,000 face amount Applicable Certificate.
If the amount of premium, if any, payable upon the redemption or purchase of an Equipment Note has not been calculated at the time that the Trustee mails notice of a Special Payment, it shall be sufficient if the notice sets forth the other amounts to be distributed and states that any premium received will also be distributed.
          If any redemption of the Equipment Notes held in the Trust is canceled, the Trustee, as soon as possible after learning thereof, shall cause notice thereof to be mailed to each Applicable Certificateholder at its address as it appears on the Register.
          (b) This Section 3.03 supersedes and replaces Section 4.02(b) and Section 4.02(c) of the Basic Agreement in their entirety, with respect to the Applicable Trust.
 
          Section 4.01. . (a) By acceptance of its Applicable Certificate, each Applicable Certificateholder agrees that at any time after the occurrence and during the continuation of a Certificate Buyout Event:
Purchase Rights of Certificateholders
     (i) each Applicable Certificateholder (other than the Company or any of its Affiliates) shall have the right to purchase, for the purchase price set forth in the Class A Trust Agreement, all, but not less than all, of the Class A Certificates upon 15 days' written notice to the Class A Trustee and each other Applicable Certificateholder, on the third Business Day next following the expiry of such 15-day notice period, that (A) if prior to the end of such 15-day period any other Applicable Certificateholder (other than the Company or any of its Affiliates) notifies such purchasing Applicable Certificateholder that such other Applicable Certificateholder wants to participate in such purchase, then such other Applicable Certificateholder (other than the Company or any of its Affiliates) may join with the purchasing Applicable Certificateholder to purchase all, but not less than all, of the Class A Certificates pro rata based on the Fractional Undivided Interest in the Applicable Trust held by each such Applicable Certificateholder and (B) if prior to the end of such 15-day period any other Applicable Certificateholder fails to notify the purchasing Applicable Certificateholder of such other Applicable Certificateholder's desire to participate in such a purchase, then such other Applicable Certificateholder shall lose its right to purchase the Class A Certificates pursuant to this Section 4.01(a)(i);
provided
     (ii) if any Additional Certificates are issued pursuant to one or more Additional Trusts, each Additional Certificateholder (other than the Company or any of its Affiliates), shall have the right (which shall not expire upon any purchase of the Applicable Certificates pursuant to clause (i) above) to purchase all, but not less than all, of the Class A Certificates, the Applicable Certificates and any Additional Certificates ranked senior to the Additional Certificates held by the purchasing Additional Certificateholders upon 15 days' written notice to the Class A Trustee, the Trustee, any Additional Trustee with respect to Additional Certificates that rank senior to the Additional Certificates held by the purchasing Additional Certificateholders and each other Additional Certificateholder of the same Class, on the third Business Day next following the expiry of such 15-day notice period, that (A) if prior to the end of such 15-day period any other Additional Certificateholder of such Class (other than the Company or any of its Affiliates) notifies such purchasing Additional Certificateholder that such other Additional Certificateholder wants to participate in such purchase, then such other Additional Certificateholder (other than the Company or any of its Affiliates) may join with the purchasing Additional Certificateholder to purchase all, but not less than all, of the Class A Certificates, the Applicable Certificates and such senior Additional Certificates pro rata based on the Fractional Undivided Interest in the applicable Additional Trust held by each such Additional Certificateholder and (B) if prior to the end of such 15-day period any other Additional Certificateholder of such
provided
 
Class fails to notify the purchasing Additional Certificateholder of such other Additional Certificateholder's desire to participate in such a purchase, then such other Additional Certificateholder shall lose its right to purchase the Class A Certificates, the Applicable Certificates and such senior Additional Certificates pursuant to this Section 4.01(a)(ii); and
     (iii) if any Refinancing Certificates are issued, each Refinancing Certificateholder shall have the same right (subject to the same terms and conditions) to purchase Certificates pursuant to this Section 4.01(a) (and to receive notice in connection therewith) as the Certificateholders of the Class that such Refinancing Certificates refinanced.
          The purchase price with respect to the Applicable Certificates shall be equal to the Pool Balance of the Applicable Certificates, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon to the date of such purchase, without premium, but including any other amounts then due and payable to the Applicable Certificateholders under the Agreement, the Intercreditor Agreement or any Note Document or on or in respect of the Applicable Certificates; , , that no such purchase of Applicable Certificates shall be effective unless the purchaser(s) shall certify to the Trustee that contemporaneously with such purchase, such purchaser(s) is (are) purchasing, pursuant to the terms of the Agreement and the Other Agreements, the Class A Certificates, the Applicable Certificates, and, if applicable, the Additional Certificates that are senior to the securities held by such purchaser(s). Each payment of the purchase price of the Applicable Certificates referred to in the first sentence hereof shall be made to an account or accounts designated by the Trustee and each such purchase shall be subject to the terms of this Section 4.01. Each Applicable Certificateholder agrees by its acceptance of its Applicable Certificate that (at any time after the occurrence of a Certificate Buyout Event) it will, upon payment from such Additional Certificateholder(s) or Refinancing Certificateholders, as the case may be, of the purchase price set forth in the first sentence of this paragraph, (i) forthwith sell, assign, transfer and convey to the purchaser(s) thereof (without recourse, representation or warranty of any kind except for its own acts), all of the right, title, interest and obligation of such Applicable Certificateholder in the Agreement, the Intercreditor Agreement, the Note Documents and all Applicable Certificates held by such Applicable Certificateholder (excluding all right, title and interest under any of the foregoing to the extent such right, title or interest is with respect to an obligation not then due and payable as respects any action or inaction or state of affairs occurring prior to such sale) (and the purchaser shall assume all of such Applicable Certificateholder's obligations under the Agreement, the Intercreditor Agreement, the Note Documents and all such Applicable Certificates), and (ii) if such purchase occurs after a Record Date relating to any distribution and prior to or on the related Distribution Date, forthwith turn over to the purchaser(s) of its Applicable Certificate all amounts, if any, received by it on account of such distribution. The Applicable Certificates will be deemed to be purchased on the date payment of the purchase price is made notwithstanding the failure of the Applicable Certificateholders to deliver any Applicable Certificates and, upon such a purchase, (I) the only rights of the Applicable Certificateholders will be to deliver the Applicable Certificates to the purchaser(s) and receive the purchase price for such Applicable Certificates and (II) if the purchaser(s) shall so request, such Applicable Certificateholder will comply with all the provisions of Section 3.04
provided
however
 
of the Basic Agreement to enable new Applicable Certificates to be issued to the purchaser in such denominations as it shall request. All charges and expenses in connection with the issuance of any such new Applicable Certificates shall be borne by the purchaser thereof.
          As used in this Section 4.01 and elsewhere in this Trust Supplement, the terms "Additional Certificate", "Additional Certificateholder", "Additional Equipment Notes", "Additional Trust", "Additional Trust Agreement", "Additional Trustee", "Class A Certificate", "Class A Certificateholder", "Class A Trust", "Class A Trust Agreement", "Class A Trustee", "Refinancing Certificates", "Refinancing Certificateholder", "Refinancing Equipment Notes" and "Refinancing Trust" shall have the respective meanings assigned to such terms in the Intercreditor Agreement.
          (b) This Section 4.01 supersedes and replaces Section 6.01(b) of the Basic Agreement, with respect to the Applicable Trust.
          Section 4.02. . Section 6.05 of the Basic Agreement shall be amended, with respect to the Applicable Trust, by deleting the phrase "and thereby annul any Direction given by such Certificateholders or the Trustee to such Loan Trustee with respect thereto," set forth in the first sentence thereof.
Amendment of Section 6.05 of the Basic Agreement
          Section 5.01. . (a) The Trustee is hereby directed (i) to execute and deliver the Intercreditor Agreement, each Participation Agreement and each Indenture on or prior to the Issuance Date, each in the form delivered to the Trustee by the Company, and (ii) subject to the respective terms thereof, to perform its obligations thereunder. Upon request of the Company and the satisfaction or waiver of the closing conditions specified in the Underwriting Agreement, the Trustee shall execute, deliver, authenticate, issue and sell Applicable Certificates in authorized denominations equaling in the aggregate the amount set forth, with respect to the Applicable Trust, in Schedule I to the Underwriting Agreement evidencing the entire ownership interest in the Applicable Trust, which amount equals the maximum aggregate principal amount of Equipment Notes which may be purchased by the Trustee pursuant to the Participation Agreements. Except as provided in Sections 3.03, 3.04, 3.05 and 3.06 of the Basic Agreement, the Trustee shall not execute, authenticate or deliver Applicable Certificates in excess of the aggregate amount specified in this paragraph. The provisions of this Section 5.01(a) supersede and replace the first sentence of Section 3.02(a) of the Basic Agreement, with respect to the Applicable Trust.
Delivery of Documents; Delivery Dates
          (b) On the Issuance Date, the Trustee shall, subject to the conditions set forth in Section 4 of each Participation Agreement, perform its obligations under the Participation Agreement (the "") and cause such certificates, documents and legal opinions relating to the Trustee to be duly delivered as required by the Applicable Participation Agreement. Upon satisfaction of the conditions specified in the Applicable Participation Agreement, the Trustee shall purchase the applicable Equipment Notes using a
Applicable Participation Agreement
 
portion of the proceeds of the sale of the Applicable Certificates. The purchase price of such Equipment Notes shall equal the principal amount of such Equipment Notes.
          (c) The Trustee acknowledges its acceptance of all right, title and interest in and to the Trust Property to be acquired pursuant to Section 5.01(b) of this Trust Supplement and each Applicable Participation Agreement, and declares that it holds and will hold such right, title and interest for the benefit of all present and future Applicable Certificateholders, upon the trusts set forth in the Agreement. By its acceptance of an Applicable Certificate, each initial Applicable Certificateholder, as a grantor of the Applicable Trust, joins with the Trustee in the creation of the Applicable Trust. The provisions of this Section 5.01(c) supersede and replace the provisions of Section 2.03 of the Basic Agreement, with respect to the Applicable Trust.
          Section 5.02. [Intentionally Omitted]
          Section 5.03. . (a) Subject to Section 5.04 of this Trust Supplement and Section 7.15 of the Basic Agreement, the Trustee shall not be responsible in any manner whatsoever for or in respect of the validity or sufficiency of this Trust Supplement or the Participation Agreements or the due execution hereof or thereof by the Company or the other parties thereto (other than the Trustee), or for or in respect of the recitals and statements contained herein or therein, all of which recitals and statements are made solely by the Company, except that the Trustee hereby represents and warrants that each of this Trust Supplement, the Basic Agreement, each Applicable Certificate, the Intercreditor Agreement, and the Participation Agreements has been executed and delivered by one of its officers who is duly authorized to execute and deliver such document on its behalf.
The Trustee
          (b) Except as herein otherwise provided and except during the continuation of an Event of Default in respect of the Applicable Trust created hereby, no duties, responsibilities or liabilities are assumed, or shall be construed to be assumed, by the Trustee by reason of this Trust Supplement other than as set forth in the Agreement, and this Trust Supplement is executed and accepted on behalf of the Trustee, subject to all the terms and conditions set forth in the Agreement, as fully to all intents as if the same were herein set forth at length.
          Section 5.04. . The Trustee hereby represents and warrants that:
Representations and Warranties of the Trustee
     (a) the Trustee has full power, authority and legal right to execute, deliver and perform this Trust Supplement, the Intercreditor Agreement and the Note Documents to which it is a party and has taken all necessary action to authorize such execution, delivery and performance by it of this Trust Supplement, the Intercreditor Agreement and the Note Documents to which it is a party;
     (b) the execution, delivery and performance by the Trustee of this Trust Supplement, the Intercreditor Agreement and the Note Documents to which it is a party (i) will not violate any provision of any United States federal law or the law of the state
 
of the United States where it is located governing the banking and trust powers of the Trustee or any order, writ, judgment, or decree of any court, arbitrator or governmental authority applicable to the Trustee or any of its assets, (ii) will not violate any provision of the articles of association or by-laws of the Trustee, and (iii) will not violate any provision of, or constitute, with or without notice or lapse of time, a default under, or result in the creation or imposition of any lien on any properties included in the Trust Property pursuant to the provisions of any mortgage, indenture, contract, agreement or other undertaking to which it is a party, which violation, default or lien could reasonably be expected to have an adverse effect on the Trustee's performance or ability to perform its duties hereunder or thereunder or on the transactions contemplated herein or therein;
     (c) the execution, delivery and performance by the Trustee of this Trust Supplement, the Intercreditor Agreement and the Note Documents to which it is a party will not require the authorization, consent, or approval of, the giving of notice to, the filing or registration with, or the taking of any other action in respect of, any governmental authority or agency of the United States or the state of the United States where it is located regulating the banking and corporate trust activities of the Trustee; and
     (d) this Trust Supplement, the Intercreditor Agreement and the Note Documents to which it is a party have been, or will be, as applicable, duly executed and delivered by the Trustee and constitute, or will constitute, as applicable, the legal, valid and binding agreements of the Trustee, enforceable against it in accordance with their respective terms; , , that enforceability may be limited by (i) applicable bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, moratorium or similar laws affecting the rights of creditors generally and (ii) general principles of equity.
provided
however
          Section 5.05. . The Trustee in its individual capacity agrees, in addition to the agreements contained in Section 7.17 of the Basic Agreement, that it will at its own cost and expense promptly take any action as may be necessary to duly discharge and satisfy in full any Trustee's Liens on or with respect to the Trust Property which is attributable to the Trustee in its individual capacity and which is unrelated to the transactions contemplated by the Intercreditor Agreement or the Participation Agreements.
Trustee Liens
          Section 6.01. [].
Reserved
     Section 6.02. . Without limitation of Section 9.01 of the Basic Agreement, under the terms of, and subject to the limitations contained in, Section 9.01 of the Basic Agreement, the Company may (but will not be required to), and the Trustee (subject to Section 9.03 of the Basic Agreement) shall, at the Company's request, at any time and from time to time, (i) enter into one or more agreements supplemental to a Participation Agreement, for any of the purposes set forth
Supplemental Agreements Without Consent of Applicable Certificateholders
 
in clauses (1) through (9) of such Section 9.01, and (without limitation of the foregoing or Section 9.01 of the Basic Agreement) (a) clauses (2) and (3) of such Section 9.01 shall also be deemed to include the Company's obligations under (in the case of clause (2)), and the Company's rights and powers conferred by (in the case of clause (3)), the Participation Agreements, and (b) references in clauses (4), (6) and (7) of such Section 9.01 to "any Intercreditor Agreement" shall also be deemed to refer to "the Intercreditor Agreement or the Participation Agreements", (ii) enter into one or more agreements supplemental to the Agreement, the Intercreditor Agreement or the Participation Agreements to provide for the formation of one or more Additional Trusts, the issuance of Additional Certificates, the purchase by any Additional Trust of applicable Additional Equipment Notes and other matters incidental thereto or otherwise contemplated by Section 2.01(b) of the Basic Agreement, subject to the provisions of Section 9.1 of the Intercreditor Agreement, and (iii) enter into one or more agreements supplemental to the Agreement to provide for the formation of one or more Refinancing Trusts, the issuance of Refinancing Certificates, the purchase by any Refinancing Trust of applicable Refinancing Equipment Notes and other matters incidental thereto or as otherwise contemplated by Section 2.01(b) of the Basic Agreement, subject to the provisions of Section 9.1(c) of the Intercreditor Agreement.
          Section 6.03. . Without limitation of Section 9.02 of the Basic Agreement, the provisions of Section 9.02 of the Basic Agreement shall apply to agreements or amendments for the purpose of adding any provisions to or changing in any manner or eliminating any of the provisions of a Participation Agreement or modifying in any manner the rights and obligations of the Applicable Certificateholders under a Participation Agreement.
Supplemental Agreements with Consent of Applicable Certificateholders
          Section 7.01. . (a) The respective obligations and responsibilities of the Company and the Trustee with respect to the Applicable Trust shall terminate upon the distribution to all Applicable Certificateholders and the Trustee of all amounts required to be distributed to them pursuant to the Agreement and the disposition of all property held as part of the Trust Property; , , that in no event shall the Applicable Trust continue beyond one hundred ten (110) years following the date of the execution of this Trust Supplement.
Termination of the Applicable Trust
provided
however
          Notice of any termination, specifying the Distribution Date upon which the Applicable Certificateholders may surrender their Applicable Certificates to the Trustee for payment of the final distribution and cancellation, shall be mailed promptly by the Trustee to Applicable Certificateholders not earlier than the 60 day and not later than the 15 day next preceding such final Distribution Date specifying (A) the Distribution Date upon which the proposed final payment of the Applicable Certificates will be made upon presentation and surrender of Applicable Certificates at the office or agency of the Trustee therein specified, (B) the amount of any such proposed final payment, and (C) that the Record Date otherwise
th
th
 
applicable to such Distribution Date is not applicable, payments being made only upon presentation and surrender of the Applicable Certificates at the office or agency of the Trustee therein specified. The Trustee shall give such notice to the Registrar at the time such notice is given to Applicable Certificateholders. Upon presentation and surrender of the Applicable Certificates in accordance with such notice, the Trustee shall cause to be distributed to Applicable Certificateholders such final payments.
          In the event that all of the Applicable Certificateholders shall not surrender their Applicable Certificates for cancellation within six months after the date specified in the above-mentioned written notice, the Trustee shall give a second written notice to the remaining Applicable Certificateholders to surrender their Applicable Certificates for cancellation and receive the final distribution with respect thereto. No additional interest shall accrue on the Applicable Certificates after the Distribution Date specified in the first written notice. In the event that any money held by the Trustee for the payment of distributions on the Applicable Certificates shall remain unclaimed for two years (or such lesser time as the Trustee shall be satisfied, after sixty days' notice from the Company, is one month prior to the escheat period provided under applicable law) after the final distribution date with respect thereto, the Trustee shall pay to each Loan Trustee the appropriate amount of money relating to such Loan Trustee and shall give written notice thereof to the Company.
          (b) The provisions of this Section 7.01 supersede and replace the provisions of Section 11.01 of the Basic Agreement in its entirety, with respect to the Applicable Trust.
          Section 8.01. . Except and so far as herein expressly provided, all of the provisions, terms and conditions of the Basic Agreement are in all respects ratified and confirmed; and the Basic Agreement and this Trust Supplement shall be taken, read and construed as one and the same instrument. All replacements of provisions of, and other modifications of the Basic Agreement set forth in this Trust Supplement are solely with respect to the Applicable Trust.
Basic Agreement Ratified
          .
Section 8.02.
GOVERNING LAW
THE AGREEMENT AND THE APPLICABLE CERTIFICATES SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
          Section 8.03. . This Trust Supplement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, but such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
Execution in Counterparts
          Section 8.04. . The parties hereto intend that the Applicable Trust be classified for U.S. federal income tax purposes as a grantor trust under Subpart E, Part I of Subchapter J of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and not as a trust or
Intention of Parties
 
association taxable as a corporation or as a partnership. Each Applicable Certificateholder and Investor, by its acceptance of its Applicable Certificate or a beneficial interest therein, agrees to treat the Applicable Trust as a grantor trust for all U.S. federal, state and local income tax purposes. The powers granted and obligations undertaken pursuant to the Agreement shall be so construed so as to further such intent.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Company and the Trustee have caused this Trust Supplement to be duly executed by their respective officers thereto duly authorized, as of the day and year first written above.
 
Certificate No. 
     
          [Unless this certificate is presented by an authorized representative of The Depository Trust Company, a New York corporation (""), to Issuer or its agent for registration of transfer, exchange or payment, and any certificate issued is registered in the name of Cede & Co. or in such other name as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC (and any payment is made to Cede & Co. or to such other entity as is requested by an authorized representative of DTC), ANY TRANSFER, PLEDGE OR OTHER USE HEREOF FOR VALUE OR OTHERWISE BY OR TO ANY PERSON IS WRONGFUL inasmuch the registered owner hereof, Cede & Co., has an interest herein.]
DTC
*
Evidencing A Fractional Undivided Interest In The Southwest Airlines Pass Through Trust 2007-1B, The Property Of Which Shall Include Certain Equipment Notes Each Secured By An Aircraft Owned By Southwest Airlines, Co.
           THIS CERTIFIES THAT , for value received, is the registered owner of a $ ( DOLLARS) Fractional Undivided Interest in the Southwest Airlines Pass Through Trust 2007-1B (the "") created by Wilmington Trust Company, as trustee (the ""), pursuant to a Pass Through Trust Agreement, dated as of July 1, 2005 (the ""), between the Trustee and Southwest Airlines, Co., a Texas corporation (the ""), as supplemented by Trust Supplement No. 2007-1B thereto, dated as of October 3, 2007 (the "" and, together with the Basic Agreement, the ""), between the Trustee and the
                     
                    
                     
                     
                      
                     
Trust
Trustee
Basic Agreement
Company
Trust Supplement
Agreement
 
 
Company, a summary of certain of the pertinent provisions of which is set forth below. To the extent not otherwise defined herein, the capitalized terms used herein have the meanings assigned to them in the Agreement. This Certificate is one of the duly authorized Certificates designated as "Southwest Airlines Pass Through Certificates, Series 2007-1B" (herein called the ""). This Certificate is issued under and is subject to the terms, provisions and conditions of the Agreement. By virtue of its acceptance hereof, the holder of this Certificate (the "" and, together with all other holders of Certificates issued by the Trust, the "") assents to and agrees to be bound by the provisions of the Agreement and the Intercreditor Agreement. The property of the Trust includes certain Equipment Notes and all rights of the Trust to receive payments under the Intercreditor Agreement (the ""). Each issue of the Equipment Notes is secured by, among other things, a security interest in an Aircraft owned by the Company.
Certificates
Certificateholder
Certificateholders
Trust Property
          The Certificates represent Fractional Undivided Interests in the Trust and the Trust Property and have no rights, benefits or interest in respect of any other separate trust established pursuant to the terms of the Basic Agreement for any other series of certificates issued pursuant thereto.
          Subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Agreement and the Intercreditor Agreement, from funds then available to the Trustee, there will be distributed on February 1 and August 1 of each year (a "") commencing February 1, 2008, to the Person in whose name this Certificate is registered at the close of business on the 15th day preceding the Regular Distribution Date, an amount in respect of the Scheduled Payments on the Equipment Notes due on such Regular Distribution Date, the receipt of which has been confirmed by the Trustee, equal to the product of the percentage interest in the Trust evidenced by this Certificate and an amount equal to the sum of such Scheduled Payments. Subject to and in accordance with the terms of the Agreement and the Intercreditor Agreement, in the event that Special Payments on the Equipment Notes are received by the Trustee, from funds then available to the Trustee, there shall be distributed on the applicable Special Distribution Date, to the Person in whose name this Certificate is registered at the close of business on the 15th day preceding the Special Distribution Date, an amount in respect of such Special Payments on the Equipment Notes, the receipt of which has been confirmed by the Trustee, equal to the product of the percentage interest in the Trust evidenced by this Certificate and an amount equal to the sum of such Special Payments so received. If a Regular Distribution Date or Special Distribution Date is not a Business Day, distribution shall be made on the immediately following Business Day with the same force and effect as if made on such Regular Distribution Date or Special Distribution Date and no interest shall accrue during the intervening period. The Trustee shall mail notice of each Special Payment and the Special Distribution Date therefor to the Certificateholder of this Certificate.
Regular Distribution Date
          Distributions on this Certificate will be made by the Trustee by check mailed to the Person entitled thereto, without presentation or surrender of this Certificate or the making of any notation hereon, except that with respect to Certificates registered on the Record Date in the name of a Clearing Agency (or its nominee), such distribution shall be made by wire transfer. Except as otherwise provided in the Agreement and notwithstanding the above, the final distribution on this Certificate will be made after notice mailed by the Trustee of the pendency of
 
such distribution and only upon presentation and surrender of this Certificate at the office or agency of the Trustee specified in such notice.
          The Certificates do not represent a direct obligation of, or an obligation guaranteed by, or an interest in, the Company or the Trustee or any affiliate thereof. The Certificates are limited in right of payment, all as more specifically set forth on the face hereof and in the Agreement. All payments or distributions made to Certificateholders under the Agreement shall be made only from the Trust Property and only to the extent that the Trustee shall have sufficient income or proceeds from the Trust Property to make such payments in accordance with the terms of the Agreement. Each Certificateholder of this Certificate, by its acceptance hereof, agrees that it will look solely to the income and proceeds from the Trust Property to the extent available for distribution to such Certificateholder as provided in the Agreement. This Certificate does not purport to summarize the Agreement and reference is made to the Agreement for information with respect to the interests, rights, benefits, obligations, privileges, and duties evidenced hereby. A copy of the Agreement may be examined during normal business hours at the principal office of the Trustee, and at such other places, if any, designated by the Trustee, by any Certificateholder upon request.
          The Agreement permits, with certain exceptions therein provided, the amendment thereof and the modification of the rights and obligations of the Company and the rights of the Certificateholders under the Agreement at any time by the Company and the Trustee with the consent of the Certificateholders holding Certificates evidencing Fractional Undivided Interests aggregating not less than a majority in interest in the Trust. Any such consent by the Certificateholder of this Certificate shall be conclusive and binding on such Certificateholder and upon all future Certificateholders of this Certificate and of any Certificate issued upon the transfer hereof or in exchange hereof or in lieu hereof whether or not notation of such consent is made upon this Certificate. The Agreement also permits the amendment thereof, in certain limited circumstances, without the consent of the Certificateholders of any of the Certificates.
          As provided in the Agreement and subject to certain limitations set forth therein, the transfer of this Certificate is registrable in the Register upon surrender of this Certificate for registration of transfer at the offices or agencies maintained by the Trustee in its capacity as Registrar, or by any successor Registrar, duly endorsed or accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Trustee and the Registrar, duly executed by the Certificateholder hereof or such Certificateholder's attorney duly authorized in writing, and thereupon one or more new Certificates of authorized denominations evidencing the same aggregate Fractional Undivided Interest in the Trust will be issued to the designated transferee or transferees.
          The Certificates are issuable only as registered Certificates without coupons in minimum denominations of $1,000 Fractional Undivided Interest and integral multiples thereof, except that one Certificate may be issued in a different denomination. As provided in the Agreement and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, the Certificates are exchangeable for new Certificates of authorized denominations evidencing the same aggregate Fractional Undivided Interest in the Trust, as requested by the Certificateholder surrendering the same.
 
          No service charge will be made for any such registration of transfer or exchange, but the Trustee shall require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or governmental charge payable in connection therewith.
          Each Certificateholder and Investor, by its acceptance of this Certificate or a beneficial interest herein, agrees to treat the Trust as a grantor trust for all U.S. federal, state and local income tax purposes.
          The Trustee, the Registrar, and any agent of the Trustee or the Registrar may treat the person in whose name this Certificate is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, and neither the Trustee, the Registrar, nor any such agent shall be affected by any notice to the contrary.
          The obligations and responsibilities created by the Agreement and the Trust created thereby shall terminate upon the distribution to Certificateholders of all amounts required to be distributed to them pursuant to the Agreement and the disposition of all property held as part of the Trust Property.
          Any Person acquiring or accepting this Certificate or an interest herein will, by such acquisition or acceptance, be deemed to have represented and warranted to and for the benefit of the Company that either: (i) the assets of an employee benefit plan subject to Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (""), or of a plan subject to Section 4975 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the ""), have not been used to purchase or hold this Certificate or an interest herein or (ii) the purchase and holding of this Certificate or an interest herein are exempt from the prohibited transaction restrictions of ERISA and the Code pursuant to one or more prohibited transaction statutory or administrative exemptions.
ERISA
Code
          THIS CERTIFICATE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
          Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by the Trustee, by manual signature, this Certificate shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Agreement or be valid for any purpose.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Trustee has caused this Certificate to be duly executed.
 

 
Exhibit 4.7
Execution Copy
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          TRUST INDENTURE AND MORTGAGE N259WN, dated as of October 3, 2007, ("Trust Indenture"), between SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO., a Texas corporation ("Owner"), and WILMINGTON TRUST COMPANY, a Delaware banking corporation, not in its individual capacity, except as expressly stated herein, but solely as Mortgagee hereunder (together with its successors hereunder, the "Mortgagee").
          WHEREAS, all capitalized terms used herein shall have the respective meanings set forth or referred to in Article I hereof;
          WHEREAS, the parties hereto desire by this Trust Indenture, among other things, (i) to provide for the issuance by the Owner of the Series of Equipment Notes specified on Schedule I hereto, and Additional Series, and (ii) to provide for the assignment, mortgage and pledge by the Owner to the Mortgagee, as part of the Collateral hereunder, among other things, of all of the Owner's right, title and interest in and to the Aircraft and, except as hereinafter expressly provided, all payments and other amounts received hereunder in accordance with the terms hereof, as security for, among other things, the Owner's obligations to the Note Holders, the Indenture Indemnitees and the Related Secured Parties;
          WHEREAS, all things have been done to make the Equipment Notes of the Series listed on Schedule I hereto, when executed by the Owner and authenticated and delivered by the Mortgagee hereunder, the valid, binding and enforceable obligations of the Owner; and
          WHEREAS, all things necessary to make this Trust Indenture the valid, binding and legal obligation of the Owner for the uses and purposes herein set forth, in accordance with its terms, have been done and performed and have happened;
          NOW, THEREFORE, THIS TRUST INDENTURE AND MORTGAGE WITNESSETH, that, to secure (i) the prompt payment of the Original Amount of, interest on, Make-Whole Amount, if any, and all other amounts due with respect to, all Equipment Notes from time to time outstanding hereunder according to their tenor and effect and to secure the performance and observance by the Owner of all the agreements, covenants and provisions contained herein and in the Participation Agreement and in the Equipment Notes (the "Secured Obligations") for the benefit of the Note Holders and each of the Indenture Indemnitees, and (ii) the Related Secured Obligations under any Related Indenture for the benefit of the Related Secured Parties, and in consideration of the premises and of the covenants herein contained, and of the acceptance of the Equipment Notes and the Related Equipment Notes by the holders thereof, and for other good and valuable consideration the receipt and adequacy whereof are hereby acknowledged, the Owner has granted, bargained, sold, assigned, transferred, conveyed, mortgaged, pledged and confirmed, and does hereby grant, bargain, sell, assign, transfer, convey, mortgage, pledge and confirm, unto the Mortgagee, its successors in trust and assigns, for the security and benefit of, the Note Holders, the Related Secured Parties and each of the Indenture
 
Indemnitees, a first priority security interest and, in the case of the Airframe and Engines, an International Interest in and mortgage lien on all right, title and interest of the Owner in, to and under the following described property, rights and privileges, whether now or hereafter acquired (which, collectively, together with all property hereafter specifically subject to the Lien of this Trust Indenture by the terms hereof or any supplement hereto, are included within, and are referred to as, the "Collateral"), to wit:
          (1) The Airframe which is one Boeing 737-700 aircraft with the FAA Registration number of N259WN and the manufacturer's serial number of 35554 and two Engines, each of which Engines is a CFM International, Inc. CFM56-7B jet propulsion aircraft engine with at least 1750 lb. of thrust, with the manufacturer's serial numbers of 894271 and 894281 (such Airframe and Engines more particularly described in the Trust Indenture Supplement executed and delivered as provided herein) as the same are now and will hereafter be constituted, whether now owned by the Owner or hereafter acquired, and in the case of such Engines, whether or not any such Engine shall be installed in or attached to the Airframe or any other airframe, together with (a) all Parts of whatever nature, which are from time to time included within the definitions of "Airframe" or "Engines", whether now owned or hereafter acquired, including all substitutions, renewals and replacements of and additions, improvements, accessions and accumulations to the Airframe and Engines (other than additions, improvements, accessions and accumulations which constitute appliances, parts, instruments, appurtenances, accessories, furnishings or other equipment excluded from the definition of Parts) and (b) all Aircraft Documents;
          (2) The Purchase Agreement and the Bills of Sale to the extent the same relate to continuing rights of the Owner in respect of any warranty, indemnity or agreement, express or implied, as to title, materials, workmanship, design or patent infringement or related matters with respect to the Airframe or the Engines (reserving to the Owner, however, all of the Owner's other rights and interest in and to the Purchase Agreement) together with all rights, powers, privileges, options and other benefits of the Owner in respect of such provisions (subject to such reservation) with respect to the Airframe or the Engines, including, without limitation, the right to make all waivers and agreements, to give and receive all notices and other instruments or communications, to take such action upon the occurrence of a default in respect of such provisions, including the commencement, conduct and consummation of legal, administrative or other proceedings, as shall be permitted thereby or by law, and to do any and all other things which the Owner is or may be entitled to do in respect of such provisions (subject to such reservation), subject, with respect to the Purchase Agreement, to the terms and conditions of the Consent and Agreement and the Engine Consent and Agreement;
          (3) All proceeds with respect to the requisition of title to or use of the Aircraft or any Engine by any Government Entity or from the sale or other disposition of the Aircraft, the Airframe, any Engine or other property described in any of these Granting Clauses by the Mortgagee pursuant to the terms of this Trust Indenture, and all insurance proceeds with respect to the Aircraft, the Airframe, any Engine or any part thereof, but excluding any insurance maintained by the Owner and not required under Section 4.06;
          (4) All rents, revenues and other proceeds collected by the Mortgagee pursuant to clause "Fifth" of Section 3.03 and Section 5.03(b) and all monies and securities from
 
time to time deposited or required to be deposited with the Mortgagee by or for the account of the Owner pursuant to any terms of this Trust Indenture held or required to be held by the Mortgagee hereunder, including the Securities Account and all monies and securities deposited into the Securities Account; and
          (5) All proceeds of the foregoing.
          PROVIDED, HOWEVER, that notwithstanding any of the foregoing provisions, so long as no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, (a) the Mortgagee shall not take or cause to be taken any action contrary to the Owner's right hereunder to quiet enjoyment of the Airframe and Engines, and to possess, use, retain and control the Airframe and Engines and all revenues, income and profits derived therefrom, and (b) the Owner shall have the right, to the exclusion of the Mortgagee, with respect to the Purchase Agreement, to exercise in the Owner's name all rights and powers assigned hereunder under the Purchase Agreement (other than to amend, modify or waive any of the warranties or indemnities contained therein and assigned hereunder, except in the exercise of the Owner's reasonable business judgment) and to retain any recovery or benefit resulting from the enforcement of any warranty or indemnity under the Purchase Agreement; and , notwithstanding the occurrence or continuation of an Event of Default, the Mortgagee shall not enter into any amendment of the Purchase Agreement which would increase the obligations of the Owner thereunder.
provided further that
          TO HAVE AND TO HOLD all and singular the aforesaid property unto the Mortgagee, and its successors and assigns, in trust for the equal and proportionate benefit and security of the Note Holders, the Related Secured Parties and the Indenture Indemnitees, except as provided in Section 2.13 and Article III hereof, without any preference, distinction or priority of any one Equipment Note over any other, or any Related Equipment Note over any other, by reason of priority of time of issue, sale, negotiation, date of maturity thereof or otherwise for any reason whatsoever, and for the uses and purposes and in all cases and as to all property specified in paragraphs (1) through (5) inclusive above, subject to the terms and provisions set forth in this Trust Indenture.
          It is expressly agreed that anything herein contained to the contrary notwithstanding, the Owner shall remain liable under the Indenture Agreements to perform all of the obligations assumed by it thereunder, except to the extent prohibited or excluded from doing so pursuant to the terms and provisions thereof, and the Mortgagee, the Note Holders, the Related Secured Parties and the Indenture Indemnitees shall have no obligation or liability under the Indenture Agreements by reason of or arising out of the assignment hereunder, nor shall the Mortgagee, the Note Holders, the Related Secured Parties or the Indenture Indemnitees be required or obligated in any manner to perform or fulfill any obligations of the Owner under or pursuant to the Indenture Agreements, or, except as herein expressly provided, to make any payment, or to make any inquiry as to the nature or sufficiency of any payment received by it, or present or file any claim, or take any action to collect or enforce the payment of any amounts which may have been assigned to it or to which it may be entitled at any time or times.
          The Owner does hereby constitute the Mortgagee the true and lawful attorney of the Owner, irrevocably, granted for good and valuable consideration and coupled with an interest and with full power of substitution, and with full power (in the name of the Owner or otherwise)
 
to ask for, require, demand, receive, compound and give acquittance for any and all monies and claims for monies (in each case including insurance and requisition proceeds) due and to become due under or arising out of the Indenture Agreements, and all other property which now or hereafter constitutes part of the Collateral, to endorse any checks or other instruments or orders in connection therewith and to file any claims or to take any action or to institute any proceedings which the Mortgagee may deem to be necessary or advisable in the premises; that the Mortgagee shall not exercise any such rights except upon the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default hereunder.
provided
          The Owner agrees that at any time and from time to time, upon the written request of the Mortgagee, the Owner will promptly and duly execute and deliver or cause to be duly executed and delivered any and all such further instruments and documents (including without limitation UCC continuation statements) as the Mortgagee may reasonably deem necessary to perfect, preserve or protect the mortgage, security interests and assignments created or intended to be created hereby or to obtain for the Mortgagee the full benefits of the assignment hereunder and of the rights and powers herein granted.
          IT IS HEREBY COVENANTED AND AGREED by and between the parties hereto as follows:
          Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the respective meanings set forth or incorporated by reference, and shall be construed in the manner described, in Annex A hereto.
          
SECTION 2.01. Form of Equipment Notes
          The Equipment Notes shall be substantially in the form set forth below:
 
                    
                    
          SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO., a Texas corporation ("Owner"), hereby promises to pay to Wilmington Trust Company, as Subordination Agent under the Intercreditor Agreement, or the registered assignee thereof, the principal sum of $ (the "Original Amount"), together with interest on the amount of the Original Amount remaining unpaid from time to time (calculated on the basis of a year of 360 days comprised of twelve 30-day months) from the date hereof until paid in full at a rate per annum equal to the Debt Rate. The Original Amount of this Equipment Note shall be due and payable in installments on the dates set forth in Schedule I hereto equal to the corresponding percentage of the Original Amount of this Equipment Note set forth in Schedule I hereto. Accrued but unpaid interest shall be due and payable in arrears in semi-annual installments commencing on February 1, 2008, and thereafter on February 1 and August 1 of each year, to and including []. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the final payment made on this Equipment Note shall be in an amount sufficient to discharge in full the unpaid Original Amount and all accrued and unpaid interest on, and any other amounts due under, this Equipment Note. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, if any date on which a payment under this Equipment Note becomes due and payable is not a Business Day, then such payment shall not be made on such scheduled date but shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day and if such payment is made on such next succeeding Business Day, no interest shall accrue on the amount of such payment during such extension.
                    
                    
                    
          For purposes hereof, the term "Trust Indenture" means the Trust Indenture and Mortgage N259WN dated as of October 3, 2007, between the Owner and Wilmington Trust Company (the "Mortgagee"), as the same may be amended or supplemented from time to time. All other capitalized terms used in this Equipment Note and not defined herein shall have the respective meanings assigned in the Trust Indenture.
          This Equipment Note shall bear interest, payable on demand, at the Payment Due Rate (calculated on the basis of a year of 360 days comprised of twelve 30-day months) on any overdue Original Amount, any overdue Make-Whole Amount, if any, and (to the extent permitted by applicable Law) any overdue interest and any other amounts payable hereunder which are overdue, in each case for the period the same is overdue. Amounts shall be overdue if not paid when due (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise).
          There shall be maintained an Equipment Note Register for the purpose of registering transfers and exchanges of Equipment Notes at the Corporate Trust Office of the Mortgagee or at the office of any successor in the manner provided in Section 2.07 of the Trust Indenture.
          The Original Amount and interest and other amounts due hereunder shall be payable in Dollars in immediately available funds at the Corporate Trust Office of the
 
Mortgagee, or as otherwise provided in the Trust Indenture. Each such payment shall be made on the date such payment is due and without any presentment or surrender of this Equipment Note, except that in the case of any final payment with respect to this Equipment Note, the Equipment Note shall be surrendered promptly thereafter to the Mortgagee for cancellation.
          The holder hereof, by its acceptance of this Equipment Note, agrees that, except as provided in the Trust Indenture, each payment of the Original Amount, Make-Whole Amount, if any, and interest received by it hereunder shall be applied, , to the payment of accrued interest on this Equipment Note (as well as any interest on any overdue Original Amount, any overdue Make-Whole Amount, if any, or, to the extent permitted by Law, any overdue interest and other amounts hereunder) to the date of such payment, , to the payment of the Original Amount of this Equipment Note then due, , to the payment of Make-Whole Amount, if any, and any other amount due hereunder or under the Trust Indenture, and , the balance, if any, remaining thereafter, to the payment of installments of the Original Amount of this Equipment Note remaining unpaid in the inverse order of their maturity.
first
second
third
fourth
          This Equipment Note is one of the Equipment Notes referred to in the Trust Indenture which have been or are to be issued by the Owner pursuant to the terms of the Trust Indenture. The Collateral is held by the Mortgagee as security, in part, for the Equipment Notes. The provisions of this Equipment Note are subject to the Trust Indenture and each Related Indenture as set forth therein. Reference is hereby made to the Trust Indenture and the Related Indentures for a complete statement of the rights and obligations of the holder of, and the nature and extent of the security for, this Equipment Note (including as a "Related Equipment Note" under each of the Related Indentures) and the rights and obligations of the holders of, and the nature and extent of the security for, any other Equipment Notes executed and delivered under the Trust Indenture, as well as for a statement of the terms and conditions of the Trust created by the Trust Indenture and each Related Indenture, to all of which terms and conditions in the Trust Indenture and each Related Indenture each holder hereof agrees by its acceptance of this Equipment Note.
          As provided in the Trust Indenture and subject to certain limitations therein set forth, this Equipment Note is exchangeable for a like aggregate Original Amount of Equipment Notes of different authorized denominations, as requested by the holder surrendering the same.
          Prior to due presentment for registration of transfer of this Equipment Note, the Owner and the Mortgagee shall treat the person in whose name this Equipment Note is registered as the owner hereof for all purposes, whether or not this Equipment Note be overdue, and neither the Owner nor the Mortgagee shall be affected by notice to the contrary.
          This Equipment Note is subject to redemption as provided in Sections 2.10, 2.11 and 2.12 of the Trust Indenture but not otherwise. In addition, this Equipment Note may be accelerated as provided in Section 5.02 of the Trust Indenture.
          This Equipment Note is subject to purchase as set forth in Section 2.7 of the Intercreditor Agreement, and to certain restrictions set forth in Sections 4.1(a)(ii) and 4.1(a)(iii) of the Intercreditor Agreement, as further specified in Section 2.07 of the Trust Indenture, to all of which terms and conditions in the Intercreditor Agreement each holder hereof agrees by its acceptance of this Equipment Note.
 
          [The indebtedness evidenced by this Equipment Note is, to the extent and in the manner provided in the Trust Indenture, subordinate and subject in right of payment to the prior payment in full of the Secured Obligations (as defined in the Trust Indenture) in respect of [Series A Equipment Notes] [Series A Equipment and Series B Equipment Notes], and certain other Secured Obligations, and this Equipment Note is issued subject to such provisions. The Note Holder of this Equipment Note, by accepting the same, (a) agrees to and shall be bound by such provisions, (b) authorizes and directs the Mortgagee on his behalf to take such action as may be necessary or appropriate to effectuate the subordination as provided in the Trust Indenture and (c) appoints the Mortgagee his attorney-in-fact for such purpose.]
1
2
3
          Unless the certificate of authentication hereon has been executed by or on behalf of the Mortgagee by manual signature, this Equipment Note shall not be entitled to any benefit under the Trust Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purpose.
          
THIS EQUIPMENT NOTE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
 
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Owner has caused this Equipment Note to be executed in its corporate name by its officer thereunto duly authorized on the date hereof.
 
          This is one of the Equipment Notes referred to in the within-mentioned Trust Indenture.
 
          
SECTION 2.02. Issuance and Terms of Equipment Notes
          The Equipment Notes (other than the Additional Series Equipment Notes) shall be dated the Closing Date, shall be issued in two separate series consisting of Series A and Series B and in the maturities and principal amounts and shall bear interest as specified in Schedule I hereto. On the Closing Date, each Series of Equipment Note (other than the Additional Series Equipment Notes) shall be issued to the Subordination Agent on behalf of the Applicable Pass Through Trustee under the Applicable Pass Through Trust Agreement. In addition to the foregoing, Owner shall have the option to issue Additional Series Equipment Notes at any time and from time to time after the Closing Date; provided, that the Owner shall not issue any such Additional Series unless it shall have obtained Ratings Confirmation from each Rating Agency. The Additional Series Equipment Notes may be issued in an unlimited number of separate series (if more than one series of Additional Series Equipment Notes are so issued, each such series shall have a different designation such as, for example, "Series C" and "Series D"), shall be dated the date of original issuance thereof and shall have such maturities, principal amounts and interest rates as specified in an amendment to this Trust Indenture. The Equipment Notes shall be issued in registered form only. The Equipment Notes shall be issued in denominations of $1,000 and integral multiples thereof, except that one Equipment Note of each Series may be in an amount that is not an integral multiple of $1,000. Without limitation of the foregoing, new Series B Equipment Notes or Additional Series Equipment Notes may be issued in accordance with the terms of this Trust Indenture.
          Each Equipment Note shall bear interest at the Debt Rate (calculated on the basis of a year of 360 days comprised of twelve 30-day months) on the unpaid Original Amount thereof from time to time outstanding. Accrued interest shall be payable in arrears on February 1, 2008, and on each February 1 and August 1 thereafter until maturity. The Original Amount of each Equipment Note shall be payable on the dates and in the installments equal to the corresponding percentage of the Original Amount as set forth in Schedule I hereto (as amended, in the case of any Additional Series, at the time of original issuance of such Additional Series) which shall be attached as Schedule I to such Equipment Notes. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the final payment made under each Equipment Note shall be in an amount sufficient to discharge in full the unpaid Original Amount and all accrued and unpaid interest on, and any other amounts due under, such Equipment Note. Each Equipment Note shall bear interest, payable on demand, at the Payment Due Rate (calculated on the basis of a year of 360 days comprised of twelve 30-day months) on any part of the Original Amount, Make-Whole Amount, if any, and, to the extent permitted by applicable Law, interest and any other amounts payable thereunder not paid when due for any period during which the same shall be overdue, in each case for the period the same is overdue. Amounts under any Equipment Note shall be overdue if not paid when due (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise). Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, whenever the date scheduled for any payment to be made hereunder or under any Equipment Note shall not be a Business Day, then such payment shall not be due on such scheduled date but shall be due on the next succeeding Business Day and if such payment is made on such next succeeding Business Day, no interest shall accrue on the amount of such payment during such extension.
 
          The Owner agrees to pay to the Mortgagee for distribution in accordance with Section 3.04 hereof: (i) an amount equal to the fees payable to the Liquidity Provider under Section 2.03 of the Liquidity Facility and the related Fee Letter (as defined in the Intercreditor Agreement) multiplied by a fraction the numerator of which shall be the then outstanding aggregate principal amount of the Series A Equipment Notes and the denominator of which shall be the then outstanding aggregate principal amount of all "Series A Equipment Notes" (each as defined in the Intercreditor Agreement); (ii) (x) the amount equal to interest on any Downgrade Advance (other than any Applied Downgrade Advance) payable under Section 3.07 of the Liquidity Facility minus Investment Earnings from such Downgrade Advance multiplied by (y) the fraction specified in the foregoing clause (i); (iii) (x) the amount equal to interest on any Non-Extension Advance (other than any Applied Non-Extension Advance) payable under Section 3.07 of the Liquidity Facility minus Investment Earnings from such Non-Extension Advance multiplied by (y) the fraction specified in the foregoing clause (i); (iv) the amount equal to interest on any Special Termination Advance (other than any Applied Special Termination Advance) payable under Section 3.07 of each Liquidity Facility minus Investment Earnings from such Special Termination Advance multiplied by the fraction specified in the foregoing clause (i); (v) if any payment default shall have occurred and be continuing with respect to interest on any "Series A Equipment Notes" (as defined in the Intercreditor Agreement), (x) the excess, if any, of (1) an amount equal to interest on any Unpaid Advance, Applied Downgrade Advance or Applied Non-Extension Advance payable under Section 3.07 of the Liquidity Facility over (2) the sum of Investment Earnings from any Final Advance plus any amount of interest at the Payment Due Rate actually payable (whether or not in fact paid) by Owner on the overdue scheduled interest on the "Equipment Notes" (as defined in the Intercreditor Agreement) in respect of which such Unpaid Advance, Applied Downgrade Advance or Applied Non-Extension Advance was made by the Liquidity Provider multiplied by (y) a fraction the numerator of which shall be the then aggregate overdue amounts of interest on the Series A Equipment Notes (other than interest becoming due and payable solely as a result of acceleration of any such Equipment Notes) and the denominator of which shall be the then aggregate overdue amounts of interest on all "Series A Equipment Notes" (other than interest becoming due and payable solely as a result of acceleration of any such "Equipment Notes"); (vi) any other amounts owed to the Liquidity Provider by the Subordination Agent as borrower under the Liquidity Facility multiplied by the fraction specified in the foregoing clause (i) other than (A) amounts due as repayment of advances thereunder or as interest on such advances, except to the extent payable pursuant to clause (ii), (iii), (iv) or (v) above and (B) fees payable under Section 2.03 of the Liquidity Facility; (vii) Owner's pro rata share of all compensation and reimbursement of expenses, disbursements and advances payable by Owner under the Pass Through Trust Agreements; and (viii) Owner's pro rata share of all compensation and reimbursement of expenses and disbursements payable to the Subordination Agent under the Intercreditor Agreement except with respect to any Unindemnified Taxes incurred by the Subordination Agent in connection with the transactions contemplated by the Intercreditor Agreement. As used herein, "Owner's pro rata share" means as of any time a fraction, the numerator of which is the principal balance then outstanding of Equipment Notes and the denominator of which is the aggregate principal balance then outstanding of all "Equipment Notes" (as such term is defined in each of the Operative Indentures). For purposes of this paragraph, the terms "Applied Downgrade Advance", "Applied Non-Extension Advance", "Applied Special Termination Advance", "Downgrade Advance", "Final Advance", "Investment Earnings", "Non-Extension Advance", "Special Termination Advance" and "Unpaid Advance"
 
shall have the meanings specified in the Liquidity Facility or the Intercreditor Agreement, as applicable.
          The Equipment Notes shall be executed on behalf of the Owner by one of its authorized officers. Equipment Notes bearing the signatures of individuals who were at any time the proper officers of the Owner shall bind the Owner, notwithstanding that such individuals or any of them have ceased to hold such offices prior to the authentication and delivery of such Equipment Notes or did not hold such offices at the respective dates of such Equipment Notes. The Owner may from time to time execute and deliver Equipment Notes with respect to the Aircraft to the Mortgagee for authentication upon original issue and such Equipment Notes shall thereupon be authenticated and delivered by the Mortgagee upon the written request of the Owner signed by an authorized officer of the Owner. No Equipment Note shall be secured by or entitled to any benefit under this Trust Indenture or be valid or obligatory for any purposes, unless there appears on such Equipment Note a certificate of authentication in the form provided for herein executed by the Mortgagee by the manual signature of one of its authorized officers and such certificate upon any Equipment Notes be conclusive evidence, and the only evidence, that such Equipment Note has been duly authenticated and delivered hereunder.
          
SECTION 2.03. [Intentionally Omitted]
          
SECTION 2.04. Method of Payment
               (a) The Original Amount of, interest on, Make-Whole Amount, if any, and other amounts due under each Equipment Note or hereunder will be payable in Dollars by wire transfer of immediately available funds not later than 12:30 PM, New York time, on the due date of payment to the Mortgagee at the Corporate Trust Office for distribution among the Note Holders in the manner provided herein, and payment of such amount to the Mortgagee shall be deemed to satisfy the Owner's obligation to make such payment. The Owner shall not have any responsibility for the distribution of such payment to any Note Holder. Notwithstanding the foregoing or any provision in any Equipment Note to the contrary, the Mortgagee will use reasonable efforts to pay or cause to be paid, if so directed in writing by any Note Holder (with a copy to the Owner), all amounts paid by the Owner hereunder and under such holder's Equipment Note or Equipment Notes to such holder or a nominee therefor (including all amounts distributed pursuant to Article III of this Trust Indenture) by transferring, or causing to be transferred, by wire transfer of immediately available funds in Dollars, prior to 2:00 p.m., New York City time, on the due date of payment, to an account maintained by such holder with a bank located in the continental United States the amount to be distributed to such holder, for credit to the account of such holder maintained at such bank. If the Mortgagee shall fail to make any such payment as provided in the immediately foregoing sentence after its receipt of funds at the place and prior to the time specified above, the Mortgagee, in its individual capacity and not as trustee, agrees to compensate such holders for loss of use of funds at Debt Rate until such payment is made and the Mortgagee shall be entitled to any interest earned on such funds until such payment is made. Any payment made hereunder shall be made without any presentment or surrender of any Equipment Note, except that, in the case of the final payment in respect of any Equipment Note, such Equipment Note shall be surrendered to the Mortgagee for cancellation promptly after such payment. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Trust Indenture to the contrary, the Mortgagee shall not be required to make, or cause to be made, wire transfers as aforesaid prior to
 
the first Business Day on which it is practicable for the Mortgagee to do so in view of the time of day when the funds to be so transferred were received by it if such funds were received after 12:30 PM, New York time, at the place of payment. Prior to the due presentment for registration of transfer of any Equipment Note, the Owner and the Mortgagee shall deem and treat the Person in whose name any Equipment Note is registered on the Equipment Note Register as the absolute owner and holder of such Equipment Note for the purpose of receiving payment of all amounts payable with respect to such Equipment Note and for all other purposes, and none of the Owner or the Mortgagee shall be affected by any notice to the contrary. So long as any signatory to the Participation Agreement or nominee thereof shall be a registered Note Holder, all payments to it shall be made to the account of such Note Holder specified in Schedule 1 thereto and otherwise in the manner provided in or pursuant to the Participation Agreement unless it shall have specified some other account or manner of payment by notice to the Mortgagee consistent with this Section 2.04.
               (b) The Mortgagee, as agent for the Owner, shall exclude and withhold at the appropriate rate from each payment of Original Amount of, interest on, Make-Whole Amount, if any, and other amounts due hereunder or under each Equipment Note (and such exclusion and withholding shall constitute payment in respect of such Equipment Note) any and all United States withholding taxes applicable thereto as required by Law. The Mortgagee agrees to act as such withholding agent and, in connection therewith, whenever any present or future United States taxes or similar charges are required to be withheld with respect to any amounts payable hereunder or in respect of the Equipment Notes, to withhold such amounts and timely pay the same to the appropriate authority in the name of and on behalf of the Note Holders, that it will file any necessary United States withholding tax returns or statements when due, and that as promptly as possible after the payment thereof it will deliver to each Note Holder (with a copy to the Owner) appropriate receipts showing the payment thereof, together with such additional documentary evidence as any such Note Holder may reasonably request from time to time.
          If a Note Holder which is a Non-U.S. Person has furnished to the Mortgagee a properly completed and accurate U.S. Internal Revenue Service Form W-8BEN, W-8EXP, W-8IMY or W-8ECI (or such successor form or forms as may be required by the United States Treasury Department) that is effective at the time a payment hereunder or under the Equipment Note(s) held by such holder is made and has not notified the Mortgagee of the withdrawal or inaccuracy of such form prior to the date of such payment (and the Mortgagee has no reason to believe that any information set forth in such form is inaccurate), the Mortgagee shall withhold only the amount, if any, required by Law (after taking into account any applicable exemptions properly claimed by the Note Holder) to be withheld from payments hereunder or under the Equipment Notes held by such holder in respect of United States federal income tax. If a Note Holder (x) which is a Non-U.S. Person has furnished to the Mortgagee a properly completed, accurate and currently effective U.S. Internal Revenue Service Form W-8ECI in duplicate (or such successor certificate, form or forms as may be required by the United States Treasury Department as necessary in order to properly avoid withholding of United States federal income tax), for each calendar year in which a payment is made (but prior to the making of any payment for such year), and has not notified the Mortgagee of the withdrawal or inaccuracy of such certificate or form prior to the date of such payment (and the Mortgagee has no reason to believe that any information set forth in such form is inaccurate) or (y) which is a U.S. Person has
 
furnished to the Mortgagee a properly completed, accurate and currently effective U.S. Internal Revenue Service Form W-9, if applicable, prior to a payment hereunder or under the Equipment Notes held by such holder, no amount shall be withheld from payments in respect of United States federal income tax. If any Note Holder has notified the Mortgagee that any of the foregoing forms or certificates is withdrawn or inaccurate, or if such holder has not filed a form claiming an exemption from United States withholding tax or if the Code or the regulations thereunder or the administrative interpretation thereof is at any time after the date hereof amended to require such withholding of United States federal income taxes from payments under the Equipment Notes held by such holder, the Mortgagee agrees to withhold from each payment due to the relevant Note Holder United States federal withholding taxes at the appropriate rate under Law and will, on a timely basis as more fully provided above, deposit such amounts with an authorized depository and make such returns, statements, receipts and other documentary evidence in connection therewith as required by Law.
          Owner shall not have any liability for the failure of the Mortgagee to withhold taxes in the manner provided for herein or for any false, inaccurate or untrue evidence provided by any Note Holder hereunder.
          
SECTION 2.05. Application of Payments
          In the case of each Equipment Note, each payment of Original Amount, Make-Whole Amount, if any, and interest due thereon shall be applied:
     First: to the payment of Make-Whole Amount, if any, with respect to such Equipment Note and any other amount (other than as covered by any of the following clauses) due hereunder with respect to such Equipment Note or under such Equipment Note;
     Second: to the payment of accrued interest on such Equipment Note (as well as any interest on any overdue Original Amount, any overdue Make-Whole Amount, if any, and to the extent permitted by Law, any overdue interest and any other overdue amounts thereunder) to the date of such payment;
     Third: to the payment of the Original Amount of such Equipment Note (or a portion thereof) then due thereunder; and
     Fourth: the balance, if any, remaining thereafter, to the payment of the Original Amount of such Equipment Note remaining unpaid (provided that such Equipment Note shall not be subject to redemption except as provided in Sections 2.10, 2.11 and 2.12 hereof).
The amounts paid pursuant to clause "Fourth" above shall be applied to the installments of Original Amount of such Equipment Note in the inverse order of their scheduled maturity.
 
          
SECTION 2.06. Termination of Interest in Collateral
          No Note Holder or any other Indenture Indemnitee shall, as such, have any further interest in, or other right with respect to, the Collateral when and if all of the Secured Obligations shall have been paid in full.
          No Related Secured Party shall have any further interest in, or other right with respect to, the Collateral when and if all Related Secured Obligations shall have been paid in full.
          
SECTION 2.07. Registration Transfer and Exchange of Equipment Notes
          The Mortgagee shall keep a register (the "Equipment Note Register") in which the Mortgagee shall provide for the registration of Equipment Notes and the registration of transfers of Equipment Notes. No such transfer shall be given effect unless and until registration hereunder shall have occurred. The Equipment Note Register shall be kept at the Corporate Trust Office of the Mortgagee. The Mortgagee is hereby appointed "Equipment Note Registrar" for the purpose of registering Equipment Notes and transfers of Equipment Notes as herein provided. A holder of any Equipment Note intending to exchange such Equipment Note shall surrender such Equipment Note to the Mortgagee at the Corporate Trust Office, together with a written request from the registered holder thereof for the issuance of a new Equipment Note, specifying, in the case of a surrender for transfer, the name and address of the new holder or holders. Upon surrender for registration of transfer of any Equipment Note, the Owner shall execute, and the Mortgagee shall authenticate and deliver, in the name of the designated transferee or transferees, one or more new Equipment Notes of a like aggregate Original Amount and of the same Series. At the option of the Note Holder, Equipment Notes may be exchanged for other Equipment Notes of any authorized denominations of a like aggregate Original Amount and of the same Series, upon surrender of the Equipment Notes to be exchanged to the Mortgagee at the Corporate Trust Office. Whenever any Equipment Notes are so surrendered for exchange, the Owner shall execute, and the Mortgagee shall authenticate and deliver, the Equipment Notes which the Note Holder making the exchange is entitled to receive. All Equipment Notes issued upon any registration of transfer or exchange of Equipment Notes (whether under this Section 2.07 or under Section 2.08 hereof or otherwise under this Trust Indenture) shall be the valid obligations of the Owner evidencing the same respective obligations, and entitled to the same security and benefits under this Trust Indenture, as the Equipment Notes surrendered upon such registration of transfer or exchange. Every Equipment Note presented or surrendered for registration of transfer, shall (if so required by the Mortgagee) be duly endorsed, or be accompanied by a written instrument of transfer in form satisfactory to the Mortgagee duly executed by the Note Holder or such holder's attorney duly authorized in writing, and the Mortgagee shall require evidence satisfactory to it as to the compliance of any such transfer with the Securities Act, and the securities Laws of any applicable state. The Mortgagee shall make a notation on each new Equipment Note of the amount of all payments of Original Amount previously made on the old Equipment Note or Equipment Notes with respect to which such new Equipment Note is issued and the date to which interest on such old Equipment Note or Equipment Notes has been paid. Interest shall be deemed to have been paid on such new Equipment Note to the date on which interest shall have been paid on such old Equipment Note, and all payments of the Original Amount marked on such new Equipment Note, as provided above, shall be deemed to have been made thereon. The Owner shall not be
 
required to exchange any surrendered Equipment Notes as provided above during the ten-day period preceding the due date of any scheduled payment on such Equipment Note. The Owner shall in all cases deem the Person in whose name any Equipment Note shall have been issued and registered as the absolute owner and holder of such Equipment Note for the purpose of receiving payment of all amounts payable by the Owner with respect to such Equipment Note and for all purposes until a notice stating otherwise is received from the Mortgagee and such change is reflected on the Equipment Note Register. The Mortgagee will promptly notify the Owner of each registration of a transfer of an Equipment Note. Any such transferee of an Equipment Note, by its acceptance of an Equipment Note, (i) agrees to the provisions of this Trust Indenture and the Participation Agreement applicable to Note Holders, including Sections 6.3, 6.4 and 9.1 thereof, and shall be deemed to have covenanted to the parties to the Participation Agreement as to the matters covenanted by the original Note Holder in the Participation Agreement, (ii) agrees to the restrictions set forth in Sections 4.1(a)(ii) and 4.1(a)(iii) of the Intercreditor Agreement, and shall be deemed to have covenanted to the parties to the Intercreditor Agreement not to give any direction, or otherwise authorize, the Mortgagee to take any action that would violate Sections 4.1(a)(ii) or 4.1(a)(iii) of the Intercreditor Agreement, and (iii) agrees to the provisions of Section 2.7 of the Intercreditor Agreement, and shall be deemed to have covenanted to the parties to the Intercreditor Agreement to perform its obligations as a Note Holder under Section 2.7 of the Intercreditor Agreement. Subject to compliance by the Note Holder and its transferee (if any) of the requirements set forth in this Section 2.07, Mortgagee and Owner shall use all reasonable efforts to issue new Equipment Notes upon transfer or exchange within 10 Business Days of the date an Equipment Note is surrendered for transfer or exchange.
          
SECTION 2.08. Mutilated, Destroyed, Lost or Stolen Equipment Notes
          If any Equipment Note shall become mutilated, destroyed, lost or stolen, the Owner shall, upon the written request of the holder of such Equipment Note, execute and the Mortgagee shall authenticate and deliver in replacement thereof a new Equipment Note, payable in the same Original Amount dated the same date and captioned as issued in connection with the Aircraft. If the Equipment Note being replaced has become mutilated, such Equipment Note shall be surrendered to the Mortgagee and a photocopy thereof shall be furnished to the Owner. If the Equipment Note being replaced has been destroyed, lost or stolen, the holder of such Equipment Note shall furnish to the Owner and the Mortgagee such security or indemnity as may be required by them to save and hold the Owner and the Mortgagee harmless and evidence satisfactory to the Owner and the Mortgagee of the destruction, loss or theft of such Equipment Note and of the ownership thereof. If a "qualified institutional buyer" of the type referred to in paragraph (a)(1)(i)(A), (B), (D) or (E) of Rule 144A under the Securities Act (a "QIB") is the holder of any such destroyed, lost or stolen Equipment Note, then the written indemnity of such QIB, signed by an authorized officer thereof, in favor of, delivered to and in form reasonably satisfactory Owner shall be accepted as satisfactory indemnity and security and no further indemnity or security shall be required as a condition to the execution and delivery of such new Equipment Note. Subject to compliance by the Note Holder with the requirements set forth in this Section 2.08, Mortgagee and Owner shall use all reasonable efforts to issue new Equipment Notes within 10 Business Days of the date of the written request therefor from the Note Holder.
 
          
SECTION 2.09. Payment of Expenses on Transfer; Cancellation
               (a) No service charge shall be made to a Note Holder for any registration of transfer or exchange of Equipment Notes, but the Mortgagee, as Equipment Note Registrar, may require payment of a sum sufficient to cover any tax or other governmental charge that may be imposed in connection with any registration of transfer or exchange of Equipment Notes.
               (b) The Mortgagee shall cancel all Equipment Notes surrendered for replacement, redemption, transfer, exchange, payment or cancellation and shall destroy the canceled Equipment Notes.
          
SECTION 2.10. Mandatory Redemptions of Equipment Notes
               On the date on which the Owner is required pursuant to Section 4.05 hereof to make payment for an Event of Loss with respect to the Airframe, all of the Equipment Notes shall be redeemed in whole at a redemption price equal to 100% of the unpaid Original Amount thereof, together with all accrued interest thereon to the date of redemption and all other Secured Obligations owed or then due and payable to the Note Holders but without Make-Whole Amount.
          
SECTION 2.11. Voluntary Redemptions of Equipment Notes
               (a) All (but not less than all) of the Equipment Notes may be redeemed by the Owner upon at least 20 days' revocable prior written notice to the Note Holders given pursuant to Section 2.12(b), and such Equipment Notes shall be redeemed in whole at a redemption price equal to 100% of the unpaid Original Amount thereof, together with accrued interest thereon to the date of redemption and all other Secured Obligations owed or then due and payable to the Note Holders plus Make-Whole Amount, if any.
               (b) All (but not less than all) of the Equipment Notes of any of the Series B or of any particular Series of Additional Series Equipment Notes may be redeemed by the Owner upon at least 20 days' revocable prior written notice to the Note Holders of each Series to be redeemed given pursuant to Section 2.12(b), and such Equipment Notes shall be redeemed in whole at a redemption price equal to 100% of the unpaid Original Amount thereof, together with accrued interest thereon to the date of redemption and all other Secured Obligations owed or then due and payable to the Note Holders of such Series plus Make-Whole Amount, if any; that no redemption shall be permitted under this Section 2.11(b) unless the following conditions have been satisfied: (1) simultaneously with such redemption, the Related Series B Equipment Notes (in the case of redemption hereunder of the Series B Equipment Notes) or the Related Additional Series Equipment Notes in respect of the Additional Series Equipment Notes being redeemed (in the case of redemption of any series of Additional Series Equipment Notes), as the case may be, shall also be redeemed; and (2) simultaneously with such redemption, new Series B Equipment Notes (in the case of redemption hereunder of the Series B Equipment Notes) or Additional Series Equipment Notes of the same Series being redeemed (in the case of redemption hereunder of a series of Additional Series Equipment Notes) shall be reissued in accordance with the terms of this Trust Indenture and Section 9.1(c) of the Intercreditor Agreement.
provided
 
               (c) Notwithstanding Section 2.11(b), all (but not less than all) of the Series B Equipment Notes may be redeemed by the Owner upon at least 20 days' revocable prior written notice to the Note Holders of Series B given pursuant to Section 2.12(b) at a redemption price equal to 100% of the unpaid Original Amount thereof, together with accrued interest thereon to the date of redemption and all other Secured Obligations owed or then due and payable to the Note Holders of the Series B Equipment Notes, plus Make-Whole Amount, if any; provided that no such redemption shall be permitted unless (x) simultaneously with such redemption, the Related Series B Equipment Notes shall also be redeemed in accordance with the terms of the Related Indentures and (y) the Rating Agencies shall have provided Ratings Confirmation with respect to any Certificates that will remain outstanding after such redemption, if such Certificates are then rated by the Rating Agencies.
          
SECTION 2.12. Redemptions; Notice of Redemption
               (a) No redemption of any Equipment Note may be made except to the extent and in the manner expressly permitted by this Trust Indenture. No purchase of any Equipment Note may be made by the Mortgagee.
               (b) Notice of redemption with respect to the Equipment Notes shall be given by the Mortgagee by first-class mail, postage prepaid, mailed not less than 20 nor more than 60 days prior to the applicable redemption date, to each Note Holder of such Equipment Notes to be redeemed, at such Note Holder's address appearing in the Equipment Note Register; provided that such notice shall be revocable by written notice from the Owner to Mortgagee given not later than three days prior to the redemption date. All notices of redemption shall state: (1) the redemption date, (2) the applicable basis for determining the redemption price, (3) that on the redemption date, the redemption price will become due and payable upon each such Equipment Note, and that, if any such Equipment Notes are then outstanding, interest on such Equipment Notes shall cease to accrue on and after such redemption date, and (4) the place or places where such Equipment Notes are to be surrendered for payment of the redemption price. At least 10 days (unless a shorter time shall be agreeable to Mortgagee) in advance of the date such notice of redemption is to be given by Mortgagee, Owner shall request Mortgagee to give such notice, and such request shall set forth the information required to be included by this Section 2.12(b) in such notice of redemption.
               (c) On or before the redemption date, the Owner (or any person on behalf of the Owner) shall, to the extent an amount equal to the redemption price for the Equipment Notes to be redeemed on the redemption date shall not then be held by the Mortgagee, deposit or cause to be deposited with the Mortgagee by 12:30 PM New York time on the redemption date in immediately available funds the redemption price of the Equipment Notes to be redeemed.
               (d) Notice of redemption having been given as aforesaid and not revoked, the Equipment Notes to be redeemed shall, on the redemption date, become due and payable at the Corporate Trust Office of the Mortgagee or at any office or agency maintained for such purposes pursuant to Section 2.07, and from and after such redemption date (unless the notice shall be revoked or provided in Section 2.12(b) or there shall be a default in the payment of the redemption price) any such Equipment Notes then outstanding shall cease to bear interest.
 
Upon surrender of any such Equipment Note for redemption in accordance with said notice, such Equipment Note shall be redeemed at the redemption price. If any Equipment Note called for redemption shall not be so paid upon surrender thereof for redemption, the principal amount thereof shall, until paid, continue to bear interest from the applicable redemption date at the interest rate in effect for such Equipment Note as of such redemption date.
          
SECTION 2.13. Subordination
               (a) The Owner, each Note Holder (by acceptance of its Equipment Notes of any Series) and each Related Note Holder (by acceptance of its Related Equipment Note), hereby agree that no payment or distribution shall be made on or in respect of the Secured Obligations owed to such Note Holder of such Series or owed to such Related Note Holder, including any payment or distribution of cash, property or securities after the commencement of a proceeding of the type referred to in Section 5.01(v), (vi) or (vii) hereof, except as expressly provided in Article III hereof.
               (b) By the acceptance of its Equipment Notes, each Note Holder agrees that in the event that such Note Holder, in its capacity as a Note Holder, shall receive any payment or distribution on any Secured Obligations in respect of the Series of Equipment Note held by such Note Holder which it is not entitled to receive under this Section 2.13 or Article III hereof, it will hold any amount so received in trust for the Note Holders entitled to such amount and will forthwith turn over such payment to the Mortgagee in the form received to be applied as provided in Article III hereof.
               (c) By the acceptance of its Equipment Notes, each Note Holder agrees that in the event that such Note Holder, in its capacity as a Note Holder, shall receive any payment or distribution pursuant to this Trust Indenture on any Related Secured Obligations, it will hold any amount so received in trust for the applicable Related Mortgagee and will forthwith turn over such payment to the Mortgagee or the applicable Related Mortgagee in the form received to be applied as provided in Article III of the applicable Related Indenture.
               (d) [.]
Reserved
               (e) Payments on the Series B Equipment Notes will be subordinate and subject in right of payment to the prior payment in full of the Secured Obligations in respect of the Series A Equipment Notes. Payments on the Additional Series Equipment Notes will be subordinate and subject in right of payment to the prior payment in full of the Secured Obligations in respect of the Series A Equipment Notes and the Series B Equipment Notes.
               (f) By acceptance of its Equipment Notes of any Series, each Note Holder of such Series (i) agrees to and shall be bound by the provisions of this Section 2.13, (ii) authorizes and directs the Mortgagee on such Note Holder's behalf to take any action necessary or appropriate to effectuate the subordination as provided in this Trust Indenture and (iii) appoints the Mortgagee as such Note Holder's attorney-in-fact for such purpose.
 
          
SECTION 3.01. Basic Distributions
          Except as otherwise provided in Sections 3.02 and 3.03 hereof, each periodic payment of principal or interest on the Equipment Notes received by the Mortgagee shall be promptly distributed in the following order of priority:
          
SECTION 3.02. Event of Loss; Replacement; Optional Redemption
          Except as otherwise provided in Section 3.03 hereof, any payments received by the Mortgagee (i) with respect to the Airframe or the Airframe and one or more Engines as the result of an Event of Loss pursuant to Section 2.10 or (ii) pursuant to an optional redemption of the Equipment Notes pursuant to Section 2.11 hereof shall be applied to redemption of the
 
Equipment Notes and to all other Secured Obligations then due by applying such funds in the following order of priority:
, , that if a Replacement Airframe or Replacement Engine shall be substituted for the Airframe or Engine subject to such Event of Loss as provided in Section 4.05 hereof, any insurance, condemnation or similar proceeds which result from such Event of Loss and are paid over to the Mortgagee shall be held by the Mortgagee as permitted by Section 7.04 hereof (provided that such moneys shall be invested as provided in Section 6.06 hereof) as additional security for the obligations of Owner under the Operative Agreements and such proceeds (and such investment earnings), to the extent not theretofore applied as provided herein, shall be released to the Owner at the Owner's written request upon the release of such Airframe or Engine and the replacement thereof as provided herein; , , , in the case of a redemption of Equipment Notes pursuant to Section 2.11(b), if a particular Series is not being redeemed pursuant thereto, no application of funds shall be made pursuant to the paragraph in clause "Second" above that refers to such Series in connection with such redemption. No Make-Whole Amount shall be due and payable on the Equipment Notes as a consequence of the redemption of the Equipment Notes as a result of an Event of Loss with respect to the Airframe or the Airframe and one or more Engines.
provided
however
provided
further
however
          
SECTION 3.03. Payments After Event of Default
          Except as otherwise provided in Section 3.04 hereof, all payments received and amounts held or realized by the Mortgagee (including any amounts realized by the Mortgagee from the exercise of any remedies pursuant to Article V hereof) after an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, as well as all payments or amounts then held by the Mortgagee as part of the Collateral, shall be promptly distributed by the Mortgagee in the following order of priority:
 
 
 
          No Make-Whole Amount shall be due and payable on the Equipment Notes as a consequence of the acceleration of the Equipment Notes as a result of an Event of Default.
          
SECTION 3.04. Certain Payments
               (a) Any payments received by the Mortgagee for which no provision as to the application thereof is made in this Trust Indenture and for which such provision is made in any other Operative Agreement shall be applied forthwith to the purpose for which such payment was made in accordance with the terms of such other Operative Agreement, as the case may be.
               (b) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Article III, the Mortgagee will distribute promptly upon receipt any indemnity payment received by it from the Owner in respect of the Mortgagee in its individual capacity, any Note Holder or any other Indenture Indemnitee, in each case whether or not pursuant to Section 8 of the Participation Agreement, directly to the Person entitled thereto. Any payment received by the Mortgagee under the third paragraph of Section 2.02 shall be distributed to the Subordination Agent in its capacity as Note Holder to be distributed in accordance with the terms of the Intercreditor Agreement, except that any portion of any such payment to which a Note Holder has been subrogated pursuant to Section 2.7 of the Intercreditor Agreement shall instead be distributed to such Note Holder.
               (c) For the avoidance of doubt, no amount will be distributed pursuant to this Article III to any holder of a note issued under a Related Indenture that is not a Related Note Holder (as such).
 
          
SECTION 3.05. Other Payments
          Any payments received by the Mortgagee for which no provision as to the application thereof is made elsewhere in this Trust Indenture or in any other Operative Agreement shall be distributed by the Mortgagee to the extent received or realized at any time, in the order of priority specified in Section 3.01 hereof, and after payment in full of all amounts then due in accordance with Section 3.01 in the manner provided in clause "Sixth" of Section 3.03 hereof.
          
SECTION 3.06. Cooperation
          Prior to making any distribution under this Article III, the Mortgagee shall consult with the Related Mortgagees to determine amounts payable with respect to the Related Secured Obligations. The Mortgagee shall cooperate with the Related Mortgagees and shall provide such information as shall be reasonably requested by each Related Mortgagee to enable such Related Mortgagee to determine amounts distributable under Article III of its Related Indenture. In addition, prior to the 90th day before the Final Payment Date, the Mortgagee shall consult with the Related Mortgagees to determine if there are any Related Secured Obligations that have not been paid when due under any Related Indenture, and in the event that there any such past-due Related Secured Obligations, the Mortgagee shall give Owner notice thereof on or prior to such 90th day. During the period from such 90th day to the Final Payment Date, the Mortgagee shall continue to consult with the Related Mortgagees, and in the event that any Related Secured Obligations become past-due during such period, the Mortgagee shall give Owner prompt notice thereof.
          
SECTION 3.07. Securities Account
          In furtherance of the provisions of Section 3.03 of this Trust Indenture, WTC agrees to act as an Eligible Institution under this Trust Indenture in accordance with the provisions of this Trust Indenture (in such capacity, the "Securities Intermediary"). Except in its capacity as Mortgagee, WTC waives any claim or Lien against any Eligible Account it may have, by operation of law or otherwise, for any amount owed to it by Owner. The Securities Intermediary hereby agrees that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Trust Indenture, (i) any amounts to be held by the Mortgagee pursuant to clause "Fifth" of Section 3.03 and any investment earnings thereon or other Cash Equivalents will be credited to an Eligible Account (the "Securities Account") for which it is a "securities intermediary" (as defined in Section 8-102(a)(14) of the NY UCC) and the Mortgagee is the "entitlement holder" (as defined in Section 8-102(a)(7) of the NY UCC) of the "securities entitlement" (as defined in Section 8-102(a)(17) of the NY UCC) with respect to each "financial asset" (as defined in Section 8-102(a)(9) of the NY UCC) credited to such Eligible Account, (ii) all such amounts, Cash Equivalents and all other property acquired with cash credited to the Securities Account will be credited to the Securities Account, (iii) all items of property (whether cash, investment property, Cash Equivalents, other investments, securities, instruments or other property) credited to the Securities Account will be treated as a "financial asset" under Article 8 of the NY UCC, (iv) its "securities intermediary's jurisdiction" (as defined in Section 8-110(e) of the NY UCC) with respect to the Securities Account is the State of New York, and (v) all securities, instruments and other property in order or registered from and credited to the Securities Account shall be payable
 
to or to the order of, or registered in the name of, the Securities Intermediary or shall be indorsed to the Securities Intermediary or in blank, and in no case whatsoever shall any financial asset credited to the Securities Account be registered in the name of the Owner, payable to or to the order of the Owner or specially indorsed to the Owner except to the extent the foregoing have been specially endorsed by the Owner to the Securities Intermediary or in blank. The Mortgagee agrees that it will hold (and will indicate clearly in its books and records that it holds) its "securities entitlement" to the "financial assets" credited to the Securities Account in trust for the benefit of the Note Holders and each of the Indenture Indemnitees and the Related Secured Parties as set forth in this Trust Indenture. The Owner acknowledges that, by reason of the Mortgagee being the "entitlement holder" in respect of the Securities Account as provided above, the Mortgagee shall have the sole right and discretion, subject only to the terms of this Trust Indenture, to give all "entitlement orders" (as defined in Section 8-102(a)(8) of the NY UCC) with respect to the Securities Account and any and all financial assets and other property credited thereto to the exclusion of the Owner.
          
SECTION 3.08. Payments to the Owner
          Any amounts to be distributed hereunder by the Mortgagee to the Owner shall be paid to the Owner (within the time limits contemplated by Section 2.03) by wire transfer of funds of the type received by the Mortgagee at such office and to such account or accounts of such entity or entities as shall be designated by notice from the Owner to the Mortgagee from time to time.
          
SECTION 4.01. Liens
          The Owner will not directly or indirectly create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien on or with respect to the Airframe or any Engine, title to any of the foregoing or any interest of Owner therein, except Permitted Liens. The Owner shall promptly, at its own expense, take (or cause to be taken) such action as may be necessary to duly discharge (by bonding or otherwise) any Lien other than a Permitted Lien arising at any time in respect of the Airframe or any Engine.
          
SECTION 4.02. Possession, Operation and Use, Maintenance, Registration and Markings
               (a) . Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, the Owner shall be entitled to operate, use, locate, employ or otherwise utilize or not utilize the Airframe, any Engine or any Parts in any lawful manner or place in accordance with the Owner's business judgment.
General
               (b) . The Owner, without the prior consent of Mortgagee, shall not lease or otherwise in any manner deliver, transfer or relinquish possession of the Aircraft, the Airframe or any Engine or install any Engine, or permit any Engine to be installed,
Possession
 
on any airframe other than the Airframe; except that the Owner may, without such prior written consent of Mortgagee:
                    (i) Subject or permit any Permitted Lessee to subject (i) the Airframe to normal interchange agreements or (ii) any Engine to normal interchange, pooling, borrowing or similar arrangements, in each case customary in the commercial airline industry and entered into by Owner or such Permitted Lessee, as the case may be, in the ordinary course of business; , , that if Owner's title to any such Engine is divested under any such agreement or arrangement, then such Engine shall be deemed to have suffered an Event of Loss as of the date of such divestiture, and Owner shall comply with Section 4.04(e) in respect thereof;
provided
however
                    (ii) Deliver or permit any Permitted Lessee to deliver possession of the Aircraft, Airframe, any Engine or any Part (x) to the manufacturer thereof or to any third-party maintenance provider for testing, service, repair, maintenance or overhaul work on the Aircraft, Airframe, any Engine or any Part, or, to the extent required or permitted by Section 4.04, for alterations or modifications in or additions to the Aircraft, Airframe or any Engine or (y) to any Person for the purpose of transport to a Person referred to in the preceding clause (x);
                    (iii) Install or permit any Permitted Lessee to install an Engine on an airframe owned by Owner or such Permitted Lessee, as the case may be, free and clear of all Liens, except (x) Permitted Liens and those that do not apply to the Engines, and (y) the rights of third parties under normal interchange or pooling agreements and arrangements of the type that would be permitted under Section 4.02(b)(i);
                    (iv) Install or permit any Permitted Lessee to install an Engine on an airframe leased to Owner or such Permitted Lessee, or purchased by Owner or such Permitted Lessee subject to a mortgage, security agreement, conditional sale or other secured financing arrangement, but only if (x) such airframe is free and clear of all Liens, except (A) the rights of the parties to such lease, or any such secured financing arrangement, covering such airframe and (B) Liens of the type permitted by clause (iii) above and (y) Owner or Permitted Lessee, as the case may be, shall have received from the lessor, mortgagee, secured party or conditional seller, in respect of such airframe, a written agreement (which may be a copy of the lease, mortgage, security agreement, conditional sale or other agreement covering such airframe), whereby such Person agrees that it will not acquire or claim any right, title or interest in, or Lien on, such Engine by reason of such Engine being installed on such airframe at any time while such Engine is subject to the Lien of this Trust Indenture;
                    (v) Install or permit any Permitted Lessee to install an Engine on an airframe owned by Owner or such Permitted Lessee, leased to Owner or such Permitted Lessee, or purchased by Owner or such Permitted Lessee subject to a conditional sale or other security agreement under circumstances where neither clause (iii) or (iv) above is applicable; , , that any such installation shall be deemed an Event of Loss with respect to such Engine, and Owner shall comply with Section 4.04(e) hereof in respect thereof;
provided
however
                    (vi) Transfer or permit any Permitted Lessee to transfer possession of the Aircraft, Airframe or any Engine to the U.S. Government, in which event
 
Owner shall promptly notify Mortgagee in writing of any such transfer of possession and, in the case of any transfer pursuant to CRAF, in such notification shall identify by name, address and telephone numbers the Contracting Office Representative or Representatives for the Military Airlift Command of the United States Air Force to whom notices must be given and to whom requests or claims must be made to the extent applicable under CRAF;
                    (vii) Enter into a charter or Wet Lease or other similar arrangement with respect to the Aircraft or any other aircraft on which any Engine may be installed (which shall not be considered a transfer of possession hereunder); the Owner's obligations hereunder shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any such charter or Wet Lease or other similar arrangement;
provided
that
                    (viii) So long as no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, and subject to the provisions of the immediately following paragraph, enter into a lease with respect to the Aircraft, Airframe or any Engine to any Permitted Air Carrier that is not then subject to any bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation, reorganization, dissolution or similar proceeding and shall not have substantially all of its property in the possession of any liquidator, trustee, receiver or similar person; , in the case only of a lease to a Permitted Foreign Air Carrier, (A) the United States maintains diplomatic relations with the country of domicile of such Permitted Foreign Air Carrier (or, in the case of Taiwan, diplomatic relations at least as good as those in effect on the Closing Date) and (B) Owner shall have furnished Mortgagee a favorable opinion of counsel, reasonably satisfactory to Mortgagee, in the country of domicile of such Permitted Foreign Air Carrier, that (v) the terms of such lease are the legal, valid and binding obligations of the parties thereto enforceable under the laws of such jurisdiction (subject to customary exceptions), (w) it is not necessary for Mortgagee to register or qualify to do business in such jurisdiction, if not already so registered or qualified, as a result, in whole or in part, of the proposed lease, (x) Mortgagee's Lien in respect of, the Aircraft, Airframe and Engines will be recognized in such jurisdiction, (y) the Laws of such jurisdiction of domicile require fair compensation by the government of such jurisdiction, payable in a currency freely convertible into Dollars, for the loss of title to the Aircraft, Airframe or Engines in the event of the requisition by such government of such title (unless Owner shall provide insurance in the amounts required with respect to hull insurance under this Trust Indenture covering the requisition of title to the Aircraft, Airframe or Engines by the government of such jurisdiction so long as the Aircraft, Airframe or Engines are subject to such lease) and (z) the agreement of such Permitted Air Carrier that its rights under the lease are subject and subordinate to all the terms of this Trust Indenture is enforceable against such Permitted Air Carrier under applicable law (subject to customary exceptions);
provided
that
that (1) the rights of any transferee who receives possession by reason of a transfer permitted by any of clauses (i) through (viii) of this Section 4.02(b) (other than by a transfer of an Engine which is deemed an Event of Loss) shall be subject and subordinate to all the terms of this Trust Indenture, (2) the Owner shall remain primarily liable for the performance of all of the terms of this Trust Indenture and all the terms and conditions of this Trust Indenture and the other Operative Agreements shall remain in effect and (3) no lease or transfer of possession otherwise in compliance with this Section 4.02(b) shall (x) result in any registration or re-registration of an Aircraft, except to the extent permitted by Section 4.02(e) or the maintenance,
provided
 
operation or use thereof except in compliance with Sections 4.02(c) and 4.02(d) or (y) permit any action not permitted to the Owner hereunder.
          In the case of any lease permitted under this Section 4.02(b), the Owner will include in such lease appropriate provisions which (t) make such lease expressly subject and subordinate to all of the terms of this Trust Indenture, including the rights of the Mortgagee to avoid such lease in the exercise of its rights to repossession of the Airframe and Engines hereunder; (u) require the Permitted Lessee to comply with the terms of Section 4.06; and (v) require that the Airframe or any Engine subject thereto be used in accordance with the limitations applicable to the Owner's possession and use provided in this Trust Indenture. No lease permitted under this Section 4.02(b) shall be entered into unless (w) Owner shall provide written notice to Mortgagee (such notice in the event of a lease to a U.S. Air Carrier to be given promptly after entering into any such lease or, in the case of a lease to any other Permitted Air Carrier, 10 days in advance of entering into such lease); (x) Owner shall furnish to Mortgagee evidence reasonably satisfactory to Mortgagee that the insurance required by Section 4.06 remains in effect; (y) all necessary documents shall have been duly filed, registered or recorded in such public offices as may be required fully to preserve the first priority security interest and International Interest (subject to Permitted Liens) of Mortgagee in the Aircraft, Airframe and Engines; and (z) Owner shall reimburse Mortgagee for all of its reasonable out-of-pocket fees and expenses, including, without limitation, reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel, incurred by Mortgagee in connection with any such lease. Except as otherwise provided herein and without in any way relieving the Owner from its primary obligation for the performance of its obligations under this Trust Indenture, the Owner may in its sole discretion permit a lessee to exercise any or all rights which the Owner would be entitled to exercise under Sections 4.02 and 4.04, and may cause a lessee to perform any or all of the Owner's obligations under Article IV, and the Mortgagee agrees to accept actual and full performance thereof by a lessee in lieu of performance by the Owner.
          Mortgagee hereby agrees, and each Note Holder and Related Note Holder by acceptance of an Equipment Note and a Related Equipment Note, respectively, agrees, for the benefit of each lessor, conditional seller, indenture trustee or secured party of any engine leased to, or purchased by, Owner or any Permitted Lessee subject to a lease, conditional sale, trust indenture or other security agreement that Mortgagee, each Note Holder and Related Note Holder and their respective successors and assigns will not acquire or claim, as against such lessor, conditional seller, indenture trustee or secured party, any right, title or interest in any engine as the result of such engine being installed on the Airframe at any time while such engine is subject to such lease, conditional sale, trust indenture or other security agreement and owned by such lessor or conditional seller or subject to a trust indenture or security interest in favor of such indenture trustee or secured party.
               (c) . So long as the Aircraft, Airframe or any Engine is subject to the Lien of this Trust Indenture, the Owner shall not operate, use or locate the Aircraft, Airframe or any Engine, or allow the Aircraft, Airframe or any Engine to be operated, used or located, (i) in any area excluded from coverage by any insurance required by the terms of Section 4.06, except in the case of a requisition by the U.S. Government where the Owner obtains indemnity in lieu of such insurance from the U.S. Government, or insurance from the U.S. Government, against substantially the same risks and for at least the amounts of the
Operation and Use
 
insurance required by Section 4.06 covering such area, or (ii) in any recognized area of hostilities unless covered in accordance with Section 4.06 by war risk insurance, or in either case unless the Aircraft, the Airframe or any Engine is only temporarily operated, used or located in such area as a result of an emergency, equipment malfunction, navigational error, hijacking, weather condition or other similar unforeseen circumstance, so long as Owner diligently and in good faith proceeds to remove the Aircraft from such area. So long as the Aircraft, the Airframe or any Engine is subject to the Lien of this Trust Indenture, the Owner shall not permit such Aircraft, Airframe or any Engine, as the case may be, to be used, operated, maintained, serviced, repaired or overhauled (x) in violation of any Law binding on or applicable to such Aircraft, Airframe or Engine or (y) in violation of any airworthiness certificate, license or registration of any Government Entity relating to the Aircraft, the Airframe or any Engine, except (i) immaterial or non-recurring violations with respect to which corrective measures are taken promptly by Owner or Permitted Lessee, as the case may be, upon discovery thereof, or (ii) to the extent the validity or application of any such Law or requirement relating to any such certificate, license or registration is being contested in good faith by Owner or Permitted Lessee in any reasonable manner which does not involve any material risk of the sale, forfeiture or loss of the Aircraft, Airframe or any Engine, any material risk of criminal liability or material civil penalty against Mortgagee or impair the Mortgagee's security interest in the Aircraft, Airframe or any Engine.
                (d) . So long as the Aircraft, Airframe or any Engine is subject to the Lien of this Trust Indenture, the Owner shall cause the Aircraft, Airframe and each Engine to be maintained, serviced, repaired and overhauled in accordance with (i) maintenance standards required by or substantially equivalent to those required by the FAA or the central aviation authority of Canada, France, Germany, Japan, the Netherlands or the United Kingdom for the Aircraft, Airframe and Engines, so as to (A) keep the Aircraft, the Airframe and each Engine in as good operating condition as on the Closing Date, ordinary wear and tear excepted, (B) keep the Aircraft in such operating condition as may be necessary to enable the applicable airworthiness certification of such Aircraft to be maintained under the regulations of the FAA or other Aviation Authority then having jurisdiction over the operation of the Aircraft, except during (x) temporary periods of storage in accordance with applicable regulations, (y) maintenance and modification permitted hereunder or (z) periods when the FAA or such other Aviation Authority has revoked or suspended the airworthiness certificates for Similar Aircraft; and (ii) except during periods when a Permitted Lease is in effect, the same standards as Owner uses with respect to similar aircraft of similar size in its fleet operated by Owner in similar circumstances and, during any period in which a Permitted Lease is in effect, the same standards used by the Permitted Lessee with respect to similar aircraft of similar size in its fleet and operated by the Permitted Lessee in similar circumstances (it being understood that this clause (ii) shall not limit Owner's obligations under the preceding clause (i)). Owner further agrees that the Aircraft, Airframe and Engines will be maintained, used, serviced, repaired, overhauled or inspected in compliance with applicable Laws with respect to the maintenance of the Aircraft and in compliance with each applicable airworthiness certificate, license and registration relating to the Aircraft, Airframe or any Engine issued by the Aviation Authority, other than minor or nonrecurring violations with respect to which corrective measures are taken upon discovery thereof and except to the extent Owner or Permitted Lessee is contesting in good faith the validity or application of any such Law or requirement relating to any such certificate, license or registration in any reasonable manner which does not create a material risk of sale, loss or forfeiture of the Aircraft, the Airframe or any Engine or the interest of Mortgagee therein, or any
Maintenance and Repair
 
material risk of criminal liability or material civil penalty against Mortgagee. The Owner shall maintain or cause to be maintained the Aircraft Documents in the English language.
               (e) . The Owner on or prior to the date of the Closing shall cause the Aircraft to be duly registered in its name under the Act and except as otherwise permitted by this Section 4.02(e) at all times thereafter shall cause the Aircraft to remain so registered. So long as no Special Default or Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, Owner may, by written notice to Mortgagee, request to change the country of registration of the Aircraft. Any such change in registration shall be effected only in compliance with, and subject to all of the conditions set forth in, Section 6.4.5 of the Participation Agreement. Unless the Lien of this Trust Indenture has been released, Owner shall also cause the Trust Indenture to be duly recorded and at all times maintained of record as a first-priority perfected mortgage (subject to Permitted Liens) on the Aircraft, the Airframe and each of the Engines (except to the extent such perfection or priority cannot be maintained solely as a result of the failure by Mortgagee to execute and deliver any necessary documents). Unless the Lien of this Trust Indenture has been released, Owner shall cause the International Interest granted under this Indenture in favor of the Mortgagee in each Airframe and Engine to be registered on the International Registry as an International Interest on such Airframe and Engine, subject to the Mortgagee providing its consent to the International Registry with respect thereto.
Registration
               (f) . If permitted by applicable Law, on or reasonably promptly after the Closing Date, Owner will cause to be affixed to, and maintained in, the cockpit of the Airframe and on each Engine, in each case, in a clearly visible location, a placard of a reasonable size and shape bearing the legend: "Subject to a security interest in favor of Wilmington Trust Company, not in its individual capacity but solely as Mortgagee." Such placards may be removed temporarily, if necessary, in the course of maintenance of the Airframe or Engines. If any such placard is damaged or becomes illegible, Owner shall promptly replace it with a placard complying with the requirements of this Section.
Markings
          
SECTION 4.03. Inspection
               (a) At all reasonable times, so long as the Aircraft is subject to the Lien of this Trust Indenture, Mortgagee and its authorized representatives (the "Inspecting Parties") may (not more than once every 12 months unless an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing then such inspection right shall not be so limited) inspect the Aircraft, Airframe and Engines (including without limitation, the Aircraft Documents) and any such Inspecting Party may make copies of such Aircraft Documents not reasonably deemed confidential by Owner or such Permitted Lessee.
               (b) Any inspection of the Aircraft hereunder shall be limited to a visual, walk-around inspection and shall not include the opening of any panels, bays or other components of the Aircraft, and no such inspection shall interfere with Owner's or any Permitted Lessee's maintenance and operation of the Aircraft, Airframe and Engines.
               (c) With respect to such rights of inspection, Mortgagee shall not have any duty or liability to make, or any duty or liability by reason of not making, any such visit, inspection or survey.
 
               (d) Each Inspecting Party shall bear its own expenses in connection with any such inspection (including the cost of any copies made in accordance with Section 4.03(a)).
          
SECTION 4.04. Replacement and Pooling of Parts, Alterations, Modifications and Additions; Substitution of Engines
               (a) . Except as otherwise provided herein, so long as the Airframe or Engine is subject to the Lien of this Trust Indenture, Owner, at its own cost and expense, will, or will cause a Permitted Lessee to, at its own cost and expense, promptly replace (or cause to be replaced) all Parts which may from time to time be incorporated or installed in or attached to the Aircraft, Airframe or any Engine and which may from time to time become worn out, lost, stolen, destroyed, seized, confiscated, damaged beyond repair or permanently rendered unfit for use for any reason whatsoever. In addition, Owner may, at its own cost and expense, or may permit a Permitted Lessee at its own cost and expense to, remove (or cause to be removed) in the ordinary course of maintenance, service, repair, overhaul or testing any Parts, whether or not worn out, lost, stolen, destroyed, seized, confiscated, damaged beyond repair or permanently rendered unfit for use; , , that Owner, except as otherwise provided herein, at its own cost and expense, will, or will cause a Permitted Lessee at its own cost and expense to, replace such Parts as promptly as practicable. All replacement parts shall be free and clear of all Liens, except for Permitted Liens and pooling arrangements to the extent permitted by Section 4.04(c) below (and except in the case of replacement property temporarily installed on an emergency basis) and shall be in good operating condition and have a value and utility not less than the value and utility of the Parts replaced (assuming such replaced Parts were in the condition required hereunder).
Replacement of Parts
provided
however
               (b) . Except as otherwise provided herein, any Part at any time removed from the Airframe or any Engine shall remain subject to the Lien of this Trust Indenture, no matter where located, until such time as such Part shall be replaced by a part that has been incorporated or installed in or attached to such Airframe or any Engine and that meets the requirements for replacement parts specified above. Immediately upon any replacement part becoming incorporated or installed in or attached to such Airframe or any Engine as provided in Section 4.04(a), without further act, (i) the replaced Part shall thereupon be free and clear of all rights of the Mortgagee and shall no longer be deemed a Part hereunder, and (ii) such replacement part shall become a Part subject to this Trust Indenture and be deemed part of such Airframe or any Engine, as the case may be, for all purposes hereof to the same extent as the Parts originally incorporated or installed in or attached to such Airframe or any Engine.
Parts
               (c) . Any Part removed from the Aircraft, Airframe or an Engine may be subjected by the Owner or a Permitted Lessee to a normal pooling arrangement customary in the airline industry and entered into in the ordinary course of business of Owner or Permitted Lessee, provided that the part replacing such removed Part shall be incorporated or installed in or attached to such Airframe or any Engine in accordance with Sections 4.04(a) and 4.04(b) as promptly as practicable after the removal of such removed Part. In addition, any replacement part when incorporated or installed in or attached to the Airframe or any Engine may be owned by any third party, subject to a normal pooling arrangement, so long as the Owner or a Permitted Lessee, at its own cost and expense, as promptly thereafter as
Pooling of Parts
 
reasonably possible, either (i) causes such replacement part to become subject to the Lien of this Trust Indenture, free and clear of all Liens except Permitted Liens, at which time such replacement part shall become a Part or (ii) replaces (or causes to be replaced) such replacement part by incorporating or installing in or attaching to the Aircraft, Airframe or any Engine a further replacement part owned by the Owner free and clear of all Liens except Permitted Liens and which shall become subject to the Lien of this Trust Indenture in accordance with Section 4.04(b).
               (d) . The Owner shall, or shall cause a Permitted Lessee to, make (or cause to be made) alterations and modifications in and additions to the Aircraft, Airframe and each Engine as may be required to be made from time to time to meet the applicable standards of the FAA or other Aviation Authority having jurisdiction over the operation of the Aircraft, to the extent made mandatory in respect of the Aircraft (a "Mandatory Modification"); , that the Owner or a Permitted Lessee may, in good faith and by appropriate procedure, contest the validity or application of any law, rule, regulation or order in any reasonable manner which does not materially adversely affect Mortgagee's interest in the Aircraft, does not impair the Mortgagee's security interest in the Aircraft and does not involve any material risk of sale, forfeiture or loss of the Aircraft or the interest of Mortgagee therein, or any material risk of material civil penalty or any material risk of criminal liability being imposed on Mortgagee or the holder of any Equipment Note. In addition, the Owner, at its own expense, may, or may permit a Permitted Lessee at its own cost and expense to, from time to time make or cause to be made such alterations and modifications in and additions to the Airframe or any Engine (each an "Optional Modification") as the Owner or such Permitted Lessee may deem desirable in the proper conduct of its business including, without limitation, removal of Parts which Owner deems are obsolete or no longer suitable or appropriate for use in the Aircraft, Airframe or such Engine; , , that no such Optional Modification shall (i) materially diminish the fair market value, utility, or useful life of the Aircraft or any Engine below its fair market value, utility or useful life immediately prior to such Optional Modification (assuming the Aircraft or such Engine was in the condition required by this Trust Indenture immediately prior to such Optional Modification) or (ii) cause the Aircraft to cease to have the applicable standard certificate of airworthiness except that such certificate of airworthiness temporarily may be replaced by an experimental certificate during the process of implementing and testing such Optional Modification and securing related FAA re-certification of the Aircraft. All Parts incorporated or installed in or attached to any Airframe or any Engine as the result of any alteration, modification or addition effected by the Owner shall be free and clear of any Liens except Permitted Liens and become subject to the Lien of this Trust Indenture; that the Owner or any Permitted Lessee may, at any time so long as the Airframe or any Engine is subject to the Lien of this Trust Indenture, remove any such Part (such Part being referred to herein as a "") from such Airframe or an Engine if (i) such Part is in addition to, and not in replacement of or in substitution for, any Part originally incorporated or installed in or attached to such Airframe or any Engine at the time of delivery thereof hereunder or any Part in replacement of, or in substitution for, any such original Part, (ii) such Part is not required to be incorporated or installed in or attached or added to such Airframe or any Engine pursuant to the terms of Section 4.02(d) or the first sentence of this Section 4.04(d) and (iii) such Part can be removed from such Airframe or any Engine without materially diminishing the fair market value, utility or remaining useful life which such Airframe or any Engine would have had at the time of removal had such removal not been effected by the Owner,
Alterations, Modifications and Additions
provided
however
provided
however
provided
Removable Part
 
assuming the Aircraft was otherwise maintained in the condition required by this Trust Indenture and such Removable Part had not been incorporated or installed in or attached to the Aircraft, Airframe or such Engine. Upon the removal by the Owner of any such Part as above provided, title thereto shall, without further act, be free and clear of all rights of the Mortgagee and such Part shall no longer be deemed a Part hereunder. Removable Parts may be leased from or financed by third parties other than Mortgagee.
               (e) . Upon the occurrence of an Event of Loss with respect to an Engine under circumstances in which an Event of Loss with respect to the Airframe has not occurred, Owner shall promptly (and in any event within 15 days after such occurrence) give the Mortgagee written notice of such Event of Loss. The Owner shall have the right at its option at any time, on at least 5 Business Days' prior notice to the Mortgagee, to substitute, and if an Event of Loss shall have occurred with respect to an Engine under circumstances in which an Event of Loss with respect to the Airframe has not occurred, shall within 60 days of the occurrence of such Event of Loss substitute, a Replacement Engine for any Engine. In such event, immediately upon the effectiveness of such substitution and without further act, (i) the replaced Engine shall thereupon be free and clear of all rights of the Mortgagee and the Lien of this Trust Indenture and shall no longer be deemed an Engine hereunder and (ii) such Replacement Engine shall become subject to this Trust Indenture and be deemed part of the Aircraft for all purposes hereof to the same extent as the replaced Engine. Such Replacement Engine shall be an engine manufactured by Engine Manufacturer that is the same model as the Engine to be replaced thereby, or an improved model, and that is suitable for installation and use on the Airframe, and that has a value, utility and remaining useful life (without regard to hours and cycles remaining until overhaul) at least equal to the Engine to be replaced thereby (assuming that such Engine had been maintained in accordance with this Trust Indenture). The Owner's right to make a replacement hereunder shall be subject to the fulfillment (which may be simultaneous with such replacement) of the following conditions precedent at the Owner's sole cost and expense, and the Mortgagee agrees to cooperate with the Owner to the extent necessary to enable it to timely satisfy such conditions:
Substitution of Engines
                    (i) an executed counterpart (or, in the case of subclause (B) below, a photocopy) of each of the following documents shall be delivered to the Mortgagee:
     (A) a Trust Indenture Supplement covering the Replacement Engine, which shall have been duly filed for recordation pursuant to the Act or such other applicable law of the jurisdiction other than the United States in which the Aircraft of which such Engine is a part is registered in accordance with Section 4.02(e), as the case may be;
     (B) a full warranty bill of sale (as to title), covering the Replacement Engine, executed by the former owner thereof in favor of the Owner (or, at the Owner's option, other evidence of the Owner's ownership of such Replacement Engine, reasonably satisfactory to the Mortgagee); and
     (C) UCC financing statements covering the security interests created by this Trust Indenture (or any similar statements or other documents required to be filed or delivered pursuant to the laws of the jurisdiction in which such Aircraft
 
may be registered) as are deemed necessary or desirable by counsel for the Mortgagee to protect the security interests of the Mortgagee in the Replacement Engine;
                    (ii) the Owner shall cause to be delivered to the Mortgagee an opinion of counsel to the effect that the Lien of this Trust Indenture continues to be in full force and effect with respect to the Replacement Engine and such evidence of compliance with the insurance provisions of Section 4.06 with respect to such Replacement Engine as Mortgagee shall reasonably request;
                    (iii) the Owner shall have furnished to Mortgagee an opinion of Owner's aviation law counsel reasonably satisfactory to Mortgagee and addressed to Mortgagee as to the due filing for recordation of the Trust Indenture Supplement with respect to such Replacement Engine under the Act or such other applicable law of the jurisdiction other than the United States in which the Aircraft is registered in accordance with Section 4.02(e), as the case may be, and the registration with the International Registry of (i) the International Interest granted under such Trust Indenture Supplement with respect to such Replacement Engine and (ii) if the bill of sale referred to in clause (i)(B) above constitutes a "contract of sale" under the Cape Town Treaty, such contract of sale with respect to such Replacement Engine; and
                    (iv) the Owner shall have furnished to Mortgagee a certificate of a qualified aircraft engineer (who may be an employee of Owner) certifying that such Replacement Engine has a value and utility and remaining useful life (without regard to hours and cycles remaining until overhaul) at least equal to the Engine so replaced (assuming that such Engine had been maintained in accordance with this Trust Indenture).
Upon satisfaction of all conditions to such substitution, (x) the Mortgagee shall execute and deliver to the Owner such documents and instruments, prepared at the Owner's expense, as the Owner shall reasonably request to evidence the release of such replaced Engine from the Lien of this Trust Indenture, (y) the Mortgagee shall assign to the Owner all claims it may have against any other Person relating to any Event of Loss giving rise to such substitution and (z) the Owner shall receive all insurance proceeds (other than those reserved to others under Section 4.06(b)) and proceeds in respect of any Event of Loss giving rise to such replacement to the extent not previously applied to the purchase price of the Replacement Engine as provided in Section 4.05(d).
          
SECTION 4.05. Loss, Destruction or Requisition
               (a) . Upon the occurrence of an Event of Loss with respect to the Airframe, the Owner shall promptly (and in any event within 15 days after such occurrence) give the Mortgagee written notice of such Event of Loss. The Owner shall, within 45 days after such occurrence, give the Mortgagee written notice of Owner's election to either replace the Airframe as provided under Section 4.05(a)(i) or to make payment in respect of such Event of Loss as provided under Section 4.05(a)(ii) (it being agreed that if Owner shall not have given the Mortgagee such notice of such election within the above specified time period, the Owner shall be deemed to have elected to make payment in respect of such Event of Loss as provided under Section 4.05(a)(ii)):
Event of Loss With Respect to the Airframe
 
                    (i) if Owner elects to replace the Airframe, Owner shall, subject to the satisfaction of the conditions contained in Section 4.05(c), as promptly as possible and in any event within 120 days after the occurrence of such Event of Loss, cause to be subjected to the Lien of this Trust Indenture, in replacement of the Airframe with respect to which the Event of Loss occurred, a Replacement Airframe and, if any Engine shall have been installed on the Airframe when it suffered the Event of Loss, a Replacement Engine therefor, such Replacement Airframe and Replacement Engines to be free and clear of all Liens except Permitted Liens and to have a value, utility and remaining useful life (without regard to hours or cycles remaining until the next regular maintenance check) at least equal to the Airframe or Engine, as the case may be, to be replaced thereby (assuming that such Airframe or Engine had been maintained in accordance with this Trust Indenture); if the Owner shall not perform its obligation to effect such replacement under this clause (i) during the 120-day period of time provided herein, it shall pay the amounts required to be paid pursuant to and within the time frame specified in clause (ii) below; or
provided
that
                    (ii) if Owner elects to make a payment in respect of such Event of Loss of the Airframe, Owner shall make a payment to the Mortgagee for purposes of redeeming Equipment Notes in accordance with Section 2.10 hereof on a date on or before the Business Day next following the earlier of (x) the 120th day following the date of the occurrence of such Event of Loss, and (y) the fourth Business Day following the receipt of insurance proceeds with respect to such Event of Loss (but in any event not earlier than the date of Owner's election under Section 4.05(a) to make payment under this Section 4.05 (a)(ii)); and upon such payment and payment of all other Secured Obligations then due and payable, the Mortgagee shall, at the cost and expense of the Owner, release from the Lien of this Trust Indenture the Airframe and the Engines, by executing and delivering to the Owner all documents and instruments as the Owner may reasonably request to evidence such release.
               (b) . Should the Owner have provided a Replacement Airframe and Replacement Engines, if any, as provided for in Section 4.05(a)(i), (i) the Lien of this Trust Indenture shall continue with respect to such Replacement Airframe and Replacement Engines, if any, as though no Event of Loss had occurred; (ii) the Mortgagee shall, at the cost and expense of the Owner, release from the Lien of this Trust Indenture the replaced Airframe and Engines, if any, by executing and delivering to the Owner such documents and instruments as the Owner may reasonably request to evidence such release; and (iii) in the case of a replacement upon an Event of Loss, the Mortgagee shall assign to the Owner all claims the Mortgagee may have against any other Person arising from the Event of Loss and the Owner shall receive all insurance proceeds (other than those reserved to others under Section 4.06(b)) and proceeds from any award in respect of condemnation, confiscation, seizure or requisition, including any investment interest thereon, to the extent not previously applied to the purchase price of the Replacement Airframe and Replacement Engines, if any, as provided in Section 4.05(d).
Effect of Replacement
               (c) . The Owner's right to substitute a Replacement Airframe and Replacement Engines, if any, as provided in Section 4.05(a)(i) shall be subject to the fulfillment, at the Owner's sole cost and expense, in addition to the conditions contained in such Section 4.05(a)(i), of the following conditions precedent:
Conditions to Airframe and Engine Replacement
 
                    (i) on the date when the Replacement Airframe and Replacement Engines, if any, is subjected to the Lien of this Trust Indenture (such date being referred to in this Section 4.05 as the "Replacement Closing Date"), an executed counterpart of each of the following documents (or, in the case of the FAA Bill of Sale and full warranty bill of sale referred to below, a photocopy thereof) shall have been delivered to the Mortgagee:
     (A) a Trust Indenture Supplement covering the Replacement Airframe and Replacement Engines, if any, which shall have been duly filed for recordation pursuant to the Act or such other applicable law of such jurisdiction other than the United States in which the Replacement Airframe and Replacement Engines, if any, are to be registered in accordance with Section 4.02(e), as the case may be;
     (B) an FAA Bill of Sale (or a comparable document, if any, of another Aviation Authority, if applicable) covering the Replacement Airframe executed by the former owner thereof in favor of the Owner;
     (C) a full warranty (as to title) bill of sale, covering the Replacement Airframe and Replacement Engines, if any, executed by the former owner thereof in favor of the Owner (or, at the Owner's option, other evidence of the Owner's ownership of such Replacement Airframe and Replacement Engines, if any, reasonably satisfactory to the Mortgagee); and
     (D) UCC financing statements (or any similar statements or other documents required to be filed or delivered pursuant to the laws of the jurisdiction in which the Replacement Airframe and Replacement Engines, if any, may be registered in accordance with Section 4.02(e)) as are deemed necessary or desirable by counsel for the Mortgagee to protect the security interests of the Mortgagee in the Replacement Airframe and Replacement Engines, if any;
                    (ii) the Replacement Airframe and Replacement Engines, if any, shall be of the same model as the Airframe or Engines, as the case may be, or an improved model of such aircraft or engines of the manufacturer thereof, shall have a value, utility and remaining useful life(without regard to hours or cycles remaining until the next regular maintenance check) at least equal to, and be in as good operating condition and repair as, the Airframe and any Engines replaced (assuming such Airframe and Engines had been maintained in accordance with this Trust Indenture);
                    (iii) the Mortgagee (acting directly or by authorization to its special counsel) shall have received satisfactory evidence as to the compliance with Section 4.06 with respect to the Replacement Airframe and Replacement Engines, if any;
                    (iv) on the Replacement Closing Date, (A) the Owner shall cause the Replacement Airframe and Replacement Engines, if any, to be subject to the Lien of this Trust Indenture free and clear of Liens (other than Permitted Liens), (B) the Replacement Airframe shall have been duly certified by the FAA as to type and airworthiness in accordance with the terms of this Trust Indenture, (C) application for registration of the Replacement Airframe in accordance with Section 4.02(e) shall have been duly made with the FAA or other applicable Aviation Authority and the Owner shall have authority to operate the Replacement
 
Airframe, and (D) the International Interest of this Trust Indenture with respect to the Replacement Airframe and the Replacement Engines, if any, shall have been registered with the International Registry and, if the bill of sale referred to in (i)(C) above constitutes a "contract of sale" under the Cape Town Convention, such contract of sale with respect to the Replacement Airframe and the Replacement Engine, if any, shall have been registered with the International Registry;
                    (v) the Mortgagee at the expense of the Owner, shall have received (acting directly or by authorization to its special counsel) (A) an opinion of counsel, addressed to the Mortgagee, to the effect that the Replacement Airframe and Replacement Engine, if any, has or have duly been made subject to the Lien of this Trust Indenture, and Mortgagee will be entitled to the benefits of Section 1110 with respect to the Replacement Airframe, provided that such opinion with respect to Section 1110 need not be delivered to the extent that immediately prior to such replacement the benefits of Section 1110 were not, solely by reason of a change in law or court interpretation thereof, available to Mortgagee, and (B) an opinion of Owner's aviation law counsel reasonably satisfactory to and addressed to Mortgagee as to the due registration of any such Replacement Airframe and the due filing for recordation of each Trust Indenture Supplement with respect to such Replacement Airframe or Replacement Engine under the Act or such other applicable law of the jurisdiction other than the United States in which the Replacement Airframe is to be registered in accordance with Section 4.02(e), as the case may be, and the registrations with the International Registry of the interests specified in clause (iv)(D) above with respect to the Replacement Airframe and Replacement Engine, if any; and
                    (vi) the Owner shall have furnished to the Mortgagee a certificate of a qualified aircraft engineer (who may be an employee of Owner) certifying that the Replacement Airframe and Replacement Engines, if any, have a value and utility and remaining useful life (without regard to hours and cycles remaining until overhaul) at least equal to the Airframe and any Engines so replaced (assuming that such Airframe and Engines had been maintained in accordance with this Trust Indenture).
          (d) . Any amounts, other than insurance proceeds in respect of damage or loss not constituting an Event of Loss (the application of which is provided for in Annex B), received at any time by Mortgagee or Owner from any Government Entity or any other Person in respect of any Event of Loss will be applied as follows:
Non-Insurance Payments Received on Account of an Event of Loss
     (i) If such amounts are received with respect to the Airframe, and any Engine installed thereon at the time of such Event of Loss, upon compliance by Owner with the applicable terms of Section 4.05(c) with respect to the Event of Loss for which such amounts are received, such amounts shall be paid over to, or retained by, Owner;
     (ii) If such amounts are received with respect to an Engine (other than an Engine installed on the Airframe at the time such Airframe suffers an Event of Loss), upon compliance by Owner with the applicable terms of Section 4.04(e)
 
with respect to the Event of Loss for which such amounts are received, such amounts shall be paid over to, or retained by, Owner;
     (iii) If such amounts are received, in whole or in part, with respect to the Airframe, and Owner makes, has made or is deemed to have made the election set forth in Section 4.05(a)(ii), such amounts shall be applied as follows:
          , if the sum described in Section 4.05(a)(ii) has not then been paid in full by Owner, such amounts shall be paid to Mortgagee to the extent necessary to pay in full such sum; and
first
          , the remainder, if any, shall be paid to Owner.
second
               (e) . In the event of a requisition for use by any Government Entity of the Airframe and the Engines, if any, or engines installed on such Airframe while such Airframe is subject to the Lien of this Trust Indenture, the Owner shall promptly notify the Mortgagee of such requisition and all of the Owner's obligations under this Trust Indenture shall continue to the same extent as if such requisition had not occurred except to the extent that the performance or observance of any obligation by the Owner shall have been prevented or delayed by such requisition; the Owner's obligations under this Section 4.05 with respect to the occurrence of an Event of Loss for the payment of money and under Section 4.06 (except while an assumption of liability by the U.S. Government of the scope referred to in Section 4.02(c) is in effect) shall not be reduced or delayed by such requisition. Any payments received by the Mortgagee or the Owner or Permitted Lessee from such Government Entity with respect to such requisition of use shall be paid over to, or retained by, the Owner. In the event of an Event of Loss of an Engine resulting from the requisition for use by a Government Entity of such Engine (but not the Airframe), the Owner will replace such Engine hereunder by complying with the terms of Section 4.04(e) and any payments received by the Mortgagee or the Owner from such Government Entity with respect to such requisition shall be paid over to, or retained by, the Owner.
Requisition for Use
provided
that
               (f) . Any amount referred to in this Section 4.05 or Section 4.06 which is payable or creditable to, or retainable by, the Owner shall not be paid or credited to, or retained by the Owner if at the time of such payment, credit or retention a Special Default or an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, but shall be paid to and held by the Mortgagee as security for the obligations of the Owner under this Trust Indenture and the Operative Agreements, and at such time as there shall not be continuing any such Special Default or Event of Default such amount and any gain realized as a result of investments required to be made pursuant to Section 6.06 shall to the extent not theretofore applied as provided herein, be paid over to the Owner.
Certain Payments to be Held As Security
          
SECTION 4.06. Insurance
               (a) . Owner shall comply with, or cause to be complied with, each of the provisions of Annex B, which provisions are hereby incorporated by this reference as if set forth in full herein.
Owner's Obligation to Insure
 
               (b) . Nothing in Section 4.06 shall limit or prohibit (a) Owner from maintaining the policies of insurance required under Annex B with higher limits than those specified in Annex B, or (b) Mortgagee from obtaining insurance for its own account (and any proceeds payable under such separate insurance shall be payable as provided in the policy relating thereto); , , that no insurance may be obtained or maintained that would limit or otherwise adversely affect the coverage of any insurance required to be obtained or maintained by Owner pursuant to this Section 4.06 and Annex B.
Insurance for Own Account
provided
however
               (c) . Mortgagee agrees to accept, in lieu of insurance against any risk with respect to the Aircraft described in Annex B, indemnification from, or insurance provided by, the U.S. Government, or upon the written consent of Mortgagee, other Government Entity, against such risk in an amount that, when added to the amount of insurance (including permitted self-insurance), if any, against such risk that Owner (or any Permitted Lessee) may continue to maintain, in accordance with this Section 4.06, shall be at least equal to the amount of insurance against such risk otherwise required by this Section 4.06.
Indemnification by Government in Lieu of Insurance
               (d) . As between Owner and Mortgagee, all insurance proceeds received as a result of the occurrence of an Event of Loss with respect to the Aircraft or any Engine under policies required to be maintained by Owner pursuant to this Section 4.06 will be applied in accordance with Section 4.05(d). All proceeds of insurance required to be maintained by Owner, in accordance with Section 4.06 and Section B of Annex B, in respect of any property damage or loss not constituting an Event of Loss with respect to the Aircraft, Airframe or any Engine will be applied in payment (or to reimburse Owner) for repairs or for replacement property, and any balance remaining after such repairs or replacement with respect to such damage or loss shall be paid over to, or retained by, Owner.
Application of Insurance Proceeds
          
SECTION 4.07. Merger of Owner
               (a) . Owner shall not consolidate with or merge into any other person under circumstances in which Owner is not the surviving person, or convey, transfer or lease in one or more transactions all or substantially all of its assets to any other person, unless:
In General
                    (i) such person is organized, existing and in good standing under the Laws of the United States, any State of the United States or the District of Columbia and, upon consummation of such transaction, such person will be a U.S. Air Carrier if, and so long as, such status is a condition of entitlement to the benefits of Section 1110 with respect to the Aircraft;
                    (ii) such person executes and delivers to Mortgagee a duly authorized, legal, valid, binding and enforceable agreement, reasonably satisfactory in form and substance to Mortgagee, containing an effective assumption by such person of the due and punctual performance and observance of each covenant, agreement and condition in the Operative Agreements to be performed or observed by Owner;
                    (iii) if the Aircraft is, at the time, registered with the FAA, such person makes such filings and recordings with the FAA pursuant to the Act or if the Aircraft is,
 
at the time, not registered with FAA, such person makes such filings and recordings with the applicable Aviation Authority as shall be necessary to evidence such consolidation or merger; and such person makes such filings and recordings, if any, with the International Registry, to reflect such change as may be necessary.
                    (iv) immediately after giving effect to such consolidation or merger no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing.
               (b) . Upon any such consolidation or merger of Owner with or into, or the conveyance, transfer or lease by Owner of all or substantially all of its assets to, any Person in accordance with this Section 4.07, such Person will succeed to, and be substituted for, and may exercise every right and power of, Owner under the Operative Agreements with the same effect as if such person had been named as "Owner" therein. In the event of any such conveyance, transfer or lease, the Company or any successor Person that shall have become such in the manner prescribed in this Section 4.07 shall be released and discharged from its liability in respect of this Trust Indenture and the Equipment Certificates and may be dissolved and liquidated.
Effect of Merger
          
SECTION 5.01. Event of Default
          "Event of Default" means any of the following events (whatever the reason for such Event of Default and whether such event shall be voluntary or involuntary or come about or be effected by operation of Law or pursuant to or in compliance with any judgment, decree or order of any court or any order, rule or regulation of any administrative or governmental body):
                    (i) the failure of the Owner to pay (i) principal of, interest on or Make-Whole Amount, if any, under any Equipment Note when due, and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of 10 Business Days, or (ii) any other amount payable by it to the Note Holders under this Trust Indenture or the Participation Agreement when due, and such failure shall continue for a period in excess of 20 Business Days after Owner has received written notice from Mortgagee of the failure to make such payment when due;
                    (ii) Owner shall fail to carry and maintain, or cause to be carried and maintained, insurance on and in respect of the Aircraft, Airframe and Engines in accordance with the provisions of Section 4.06; provided that the lapse or cancellation of such insurance shall not constitute an Event of Default until the earlier of (i) 30 days after receipt by the Mortgagee of written notice of such lapse or cancellation of (ii) the date that such lapse or cancellation is effective as to the Mortgagee;
                    (iii) Owner shall fail to observe or perform (or caused to be observed and performed) in any material respect any other covenant, agreement or obligation set forth herein or in any other Operative Agreement to which Owner is a party and such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of 60 days from and after the date of written notice thereof to Owner from Mortgagee, unless such failure is capable of being corrected and Owner
 
shall be diligently proceeding to correct such failure, in which case there shall be no Event of Default unless and until such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of 360 days after receipt of such notice;
                    (iv) any representation or warranty made by Owner herein, in the Participation Agreement or in any other Operative Agreement to which Owner is a party (a) shall prove to have been untrue or inaccurate in any material respect as of the date made, (b) such untrue or inaccurate representation or warranty is material at the time in question, (c) and the same shall remain uncured (to the extent of the adverse impact of such incorrectness on the interest of the Mortgagee) for a period in excess of 60 days from and after the date of written notice thereof from Mortgagee to Owner;
                    (v) the Owner shall consent to the appointment of or taking possession by a receiver, trustee or liquidator of itself or of a substantial part of its property, or the Owner shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they come due or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors, or the Owner shall file a voluntary petition in bankruptcy or a voluntary petition or an answer seeking reorganization, liquidation or other relief under any bankruptcy laws or insolvency laws (as in effect at such time), or an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against it in any such case, or the Owner shall seek relief by voluntary petition, answer or consent, under the provisions of any other bankruptcy or similar law providing for the reorganization or winding-up of corporations (as in effect at such time), or the Owner shall seek an agreement, composition, extension or adjustment with its creditors under such laws or the Owner's board of directors shall adopt a resolution authorizing corporate action in furtherance of any of the foregoing;
                    (vi) an order, judgment or decree shall be entered by any court of competent jurisdiction appointing, without the consent of the Owner, a receiver, trustee or liquidator of the Owner or of any substantial part of its property, or any substantial part of the property of the Owner shall be sequestered, or granting any other relief in respect of the Owner as a debtor under any bankruptcy laws or other insolvency laws (as in effect at such time), and any such order, judgment or decree of appointment or sequestration shall remain in force undismissed, unstayed or unvacated for a period of 90 days after the date of entry thereof;
                    (vii) a petition against the Owner in a proceeding under any bankruptcy laws or other insolvency laws (as in effect at such time) is filed and not withdrawn or dismissed within 90 days thereafter, or if, under the provisions of any law providing for reorganization or winding-up of corporations which may apply to the Owner, any court of competent jurisdiction shall assume jurisdiction, custody or control of the Owner of any substantial part of its property and such jurisdiction, custody or control shall remain in force unrelinquished, unstayed or unterminated for a period of 90 days; or
                    (viii) (A) any amount in respect of (i) the Related Equipment Notes, including any payment of principal amount of, interest on, or Make-Whole Amount, if any, with respect to any Related Equipment Note has not been paid in full on the Final Payment Date or (ii) any other amounts payable under the Related Operative Agreements (including any amounts due and payable pursuant to the third paragraph of Section 2.02 of any Related Indenture and any indemnities payable by the Owner pursuant to Section 8.1 of any Related
 
Participation Agreement) in each case that are due and payable on or before the Final Payment Date are not paid in full on the Final Payment Date and (B) any such failure shall continue unremedied for a period of twenty (20) Business Days thereafter.
provided, however, that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section 5.01, any failure of Owner to perform or observe any covenant, condition, agreement or any error in a representation or warranty shall not constitute an Event of Default if such failure or error is caused solely by reason of any event that constitutes an Event of Loss so long as Owner is continuing to comply with all of the terms of Section 4.04(e) and Section 4.05 hereof.
          
SECTION 5.02. Remedies
               (a) If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing and so long as the same shall continue unremedied, then and in every such case the Mortgagee may exercise any or all of the rights and powers and pursue any and all of the remedies pursuant to this Article V and shall have and may exercise all of the rights and remedies of a secured party under the Uniform Commercial Code or by any other applicable Law (including the Cape Town Treaty, to the extent applicable) and may take possession of all or any part of the properties covered or intended to be covered by the Lien created hereby or pursuant hereto and may exclude the Owner and all persons claiming under it wholly or partly therefrom; , that the Mortgagee shall give the Owner twenty (20) days' prior written notice of its intention to sell the Aircraft. Without limiting any of the foregoing, it is understood and agreed that the Mortgagee may exercise any right of sale of the Aircraft available to it, even though it shall not have taken possession of the Aircraft and shall not have possession thereof at the time of such sale.
provided
               (b) If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, then and in every such case the Mortgagee may (and shall, upon receipt of a written demand therefor from a Majority in Interest of Note Holders), at any time, by delivery of written notice or notices to the Owner, declare all the Equipment Notes to be due and payable, whereupon the unpaid Original Amount of all Equipment Notes then outstanding, together with accrued but unpaid interest thereon (without Make-Whole Amount) and other amounts due thereunder or otherwise payable hereunder, shall immediately become due and payable without presentment, demand, protest or notice, all of which are hereby waived; provided that if an Event of Default referred to in clause (v), (vi) or (vii) of Section 5.01 hereof shall have occurred, then and in every such case the unpaid Original Amount then outstanding, together with accrued but unpaid interest (without Make-Whole Amount) and all other amounts due hereunder and under the Equipment Notes shall immediately and without further act become due and payable without presentment, demand, protest or notice, all of which are hereby waived.
          This Section 5.02(b), however, is subject to the condition that, if at any time after the Original Amount of the Equipment Notes shall have become so due and payable, and before any judgment or decree for the payment of the money so due, or any thereof, shall be entered, all overdue payments of interest upon the Equipment Notes and all other amounts payable hereunder or under the Equipment Notes (except the Original Amount of the Equipment Notes which by such declaration shall have become payable) shall have been duly paid, and every other Default and Event of Default with respect to any covenant or provision of this Trust Indenture
 
shall have been cured, then and in every such case a Majority in Interest of Note Holders may (but shall not be obligated to), by written instrument filed with the Mortgagee, rescind and annul the Mortgagee's declaration (or such automatic acceleration) and its consequences; but no such rescission or annulment shall extend to or affect any subsequent Default or Event of Default or impair any right consequent thereon.
               (c) The Note Holders shall be entitled, at any sale pursuant to this Section 5.02, to credit against any purchase price bid at such sale by such holder all or any part of the unpaid obligations owing to such Note Holder and secured by the Lien of this Trust Indenture (only to the extent that such purchase price would have been paid to such Note Holder pursuant to Article III hereof if such purchase price were paid in cash and the foregoing provisions of this subsection (c) were not given effect).
               (d) In the event of any sale of the Collateral, or any part thereof, pursuant to any judgment or decree of any court or otherwise in connection with the enforcement of any of the terms of this Trust Indenture, the unpaid Original Amount of all Equipment Notes then outstanding, together with accrued interest thereon (without Make-Whole Amount), and other amounts due thereunder, shall immediately become due and payable without presentment, demand, protest or notice, all of which are hereby waived.
               (e) Notwithstanding anything contained herein, (i) so long as the Pass Through Trustee under any Pass Through Trust Agreement (or its designee) is a Note Holder, the Mortgagee will not be authorized or empowered to acquire title to any Collateral or take any action with respect to any Collateral so acquired by it if such acquisition or action would cause any Trust to fail to qualify as a "grantor trust" for federal income tax purposes, and (ii) the Mortgagee will not take any action that would violate Section 4.1(a)(ii) or 4.1(a)(iii) of the Intercreditor Agreement.
          
SECTION 5.03. Return of Aircraft, Etc.
               (a) If an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing and the Equipment Notes have been accelerated, at the request of the Mortgagee, the Owner shall promptly execute and deliver to the Mortgagee such instruments of title and other documents as the Mortgagee may deem necessary or advisable to enable the Mortgagee or an agent or representative designated by the Mortgagee, at such time or times and place or places as the Mortgagee may specify, to obtain possession of all or any part of the Collateral to which the Mortgagee shall at the time be entitled hereunder. If the Owner shall for any reason fail to execute and deliver such instruments and documents after such request by the Mortgagee, the Mortgagee may (i) obtain a judgment conferring on the Mortgagee the right to immediate possession and requiring the Owner to execute and deliver such instruments and documents to the Mortgagee, to the entry of which judgment the Owner hereby specifically consents to the fullest extent permitted by Law, and (ii) pursue all or part of such Collateral wherever it may be found and may enter any of the premises of Owner wherever such Collateral may be or be supposed to be and search for such Collateral and take possession of and remove such Collateral. All expenses of obtaining such judgment or of pursuing, searching for and taking such property shall, until paid, be secured by the Lien of this Trust Indenture.
 
               (b) Upon every such taking of possession, the Mortgagee may, from time to time, at the expense of the Collateral, make all such expenditures for maintenance, use, operation, storage, insurance, leasing, control, management, disposition, modifications or alterations to and of the Collateral, as it may deem proper. In each such case, the Mortgagee shall have the right to maintain, use, operate, store, insure, lease, control, manage, dispose of, modify or alter the Collateral and to exercise all rights and powers of the Owner relating to the Collateral, as the Mortgagee shall deem best, including the right to enter into any and all such agreements with respect to the maintenance, use, operation, storage, insurance, leasing, control, management, disposition, modification or alteration of the Collateral or any part thereof as the Mortgagee may determine, and the Mortgagee shall be entitled to collect and receive directly all rents, revenues and other proceeds of the Collateral and every part thereof, without prejudice, however, to the right of the Mortgagee under any provision of this Trust Indenture to collect and receive all cash held by, or required to be deposited with, the Mortgagee hereunder. Such rents, revenues and other proceeds shall be applied to pay the expenses of the maintenance, use, operation, storage, insurance, leasing, control, management, disposition, improvement, modification or alteration of the Collateral and of conducting the business thereof, and to make all payments which the Mortgagee may be required or may elect to make, if any, for taxes, assessments, insurance or other proper charges upon the Collateral or any part thereof (including the employment of engineers and accountants to examine, inspect and make reports upon the properties and books and records of the Owner), and all other payments which the Mortgagee may be required or authorized to make under any provision of this Trust Indenture, as well as just and reasonable compensation for the services of the Mortgagee, and of all persons properly engaged and employed by the Mortgagee with respect hereto.
          
SECTION 5.04. Remedies Cumulative
          Each and every right, power and remedy given to the Mortgagee specifically or otherwise in this Trust Indenture shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to every other right, power and remedy herein specifically given or now or hereafter existing at Law, in equity or by statute, and each and every right, power and remedy whether specifically herein given or otherwise existing may be exercised from time to time and as often and in such order as may be deemed expedient by the Mortgagee, and the exercise or the beginning of the exercise of any power or remedy shall not be construed to be a waiver of the right to exercise at the same time or thereafter any other right, power or remedy. No delay or omission by the Mortgagee in the exercise of any right, remedy or power or in the pursuance of any remedy shall impair any such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver of any default on the part of the Owner or to be an acquiescence therein.
          
SECTION 5.05. Discontinuance of Proceedings
          In case the Mortgagee shall have instituted any proceeding to enforce any right, power or remedy under this Trust Indenture by foreclosure, entry or otherwise, and such proceedings shall have been discontinued or abandoned for any reason or shall have been determined adversely to the Mortgagee, then and in every such case the Owner and the Mortgagee shall, subject to any determination in such proceedings, be restored to their former positions and rights hereunder with respect to the Collateral, and all rights, remedies and powers of the Owner or the Mortgagee shall continue as if no such proceedings had been instituted.
 
          
SECTION 5.06. Waiver of Past Defaults
          Upon written instruction from a Majority in Interest of Note Holders, the Mortgagee shall waive any past Default hereunder and its consequences and upon any such waiver such Default shall cease to exist and any Event of Default arising therefrom shall be deemed to have been cured for every purpose of this Trust Indenture, but no such waiver shall extend to any subsequent or other Default or impair any right consequent thereon; provided, that in the absence of written instructions from all the Note Holders, the Mortgagee shall not waive any Default (i) in the payment of the Original Amount, Make-Whole Amount, if any, and interest and other amounts due under any Equipment Note then outstanding, or (ii) in respect of a covenant or provision hereof which, under Article X hereof, cannot be modified or amended without the consent of each Note Holder.
          
SECTION 5.07. Appointment of Receiver
          The Mortgagee shall, as a matter of right, be entitled to the appointment of a receiver (who may be the Mortgagee or any successor or nominee thereof) for all or any part of the Collateral after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Event of Default, whether such receivership be incidental to a proposed sale of the Collateral or the taking of possession thereof or otherwise, and the Owner hereby consents to the appointment of such a receiver and will not oppose any such appointment. Any receiver appointed for all or any part of the Collateral shall be entitled to exercise all the rights and powers of the Mortgagee with respect to the Collateral.
          
SECTION 5.08. Mortgagee Authorized to Execute Bills of Sale, Etc.
          The Owner irrevocably appoints, while an Event of Default has occurred and is continuing, the Mortgagee the true and lawful attorney-in-fact of the Owner (which appointment is coupled with an interest) in its name and stead and on its behalf, for the purpose of effectuating any sale, assignment, transfer or delivery for the enforcement of the Lien of this Trust Indenture, whether pursuant to foreclosure or power of sale, assignments and other instruments as may be necessary or appropriate, with full power of substitution, the Owner hereby ratifying and confirming all that such attorney or any substitute shall do by virtue hereof in accordance with applicable law. Nevertheless, if so requested by the Mortgagee or any purchaser, the Owner shall ratify and confirm any such sale, assignment, transfer or delivery, by executing and delivering to the Mortgagee or such purchaser all bills of sale, assignments, releases and other proper instruments to effect such ratification and confirmation as may be designated in any such request.
          
SECTION 5.09. Rights of Note Holders to Receive Payment
          Notwithstanding any other provision of this Trust Indenture, the right of any Note Holder to receive payment of principal of, and premium, if any, and interest on an Equipment Note on or after the respective due dates expressed in such Equipment Note, or to bring suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after such respective dates in accordance with the terms hereof, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Note Holder.
 
          
SECTION 6.01. Notice of Event of Default
          If the Mortgagee shall have Actual Knowledge of an Event of Default or of a Default arising from a failure to pay any installment of principal and interest on any Equipment Note, the Mortgagee shall give prompt written notice thereof to each Note Holder. Subject to the terms of Sections 5.06, 6.02 and 6.03 hereof, the Mortgagee shall take such action, or refrain from taking such action, with respect to such Event of Default or Default (including with respect to the exercise of any rights or remedies hereunder) as the Mortgagee shall be instructed in writing by a Majority in Interest of Note Holders. Subject to the provisions of Section 6.03, if the Mortgagee shall not have received instructions as above provided within 20 days after mailing notice of such Event of Default to the Note Holders, the Mortgagee may, subject to instructions thereafter received pursuant to the preceding provisions of this Section 6.01, take such action, or refrain from taking such action, but shall be under no duty to take or refrain from taking any action, with respect to such Event of Default or Default as it shall determine advisable in the best interests of the Note Holders; , , that the Mortgagee may not sell the Aircraft or any Engine without the consent of a Majority in Interest of Note Holders. For all purposes of this Trust Indenture, in the absence of Actual Knowledge on the part of the Mortgagee, the Mortgagee shall not be deemed to have knowledge of a Default or an Event of Default (except the failure of Owner to pay any installment of principal or interest within one Business Day after the same shall become due, which failure shall constitute knowledge of a Default) unless notified in writing by the Owner or one or more Note Holders.
provided
however
          
SECTION 6.02. Action Upon Instructions; Certain Rights and Limitations
          Subject to the terms of Sections 5.02(a), 5.06, 6.01 and 6.03 hereof, upon the written instructions at any time and from time to time of a Majority in Interest of Note Holders, the Mortgagee shall, subject to the terms of this Section 6.02, take such of the following actions as may be specified in such instructions: (i) give such notice or direction or exercise such right, remedy or power hereunder as shall be specified in such instructions and (ii) give such notice or direction or exercise such right, remedy or power hereunder with respect to any part of the Collateral as shall be specified in such instructions; it being understood that without the written instructions of a Majority in Interest of Note Holders, the Mortgagee shall not, except as provided in Section 6.01, approve any such matter as satisfactory to the Mortgagee.
          The Mortgagee will execute and the Owner will file such continuation statements with respect to financing statements relating to the security interest created hereunder in the Collateral as may be specified from time to time in written instructions of a Majority in Interest of Note Holders (which instructions shall be accompanied by the form of such continuation statement so to be filed). The Mortgagee will furnish to each Note Holder, promptly upon receipt thereof, duplicates or copies of all reports, notices, requests, demands, certificates and other instruments furnished to the Mortgagee hereunder.
 
          
SECTION 6.03. Indemnification
          The Mortgagee shall not be required to take any action or refrain from taking any action under Section 6.01 (other than the first sentence thereof), 6.02 or Article V hereof unless the Mortgagee shall have been indemnified to its reasonable satisfaction against any liability, cost or expense (including counsel fees) which may be incurred in connection therewith pursuant to a written agreement with one or more Note Holders. The Mortgagee agrees that it shall look solely to the Note Holders for the satisfaction of any indemnity (except expenses for foreclosure of the type referred to in clause "First" of Section 3.03 hereof) owed to it pursuant to this Section 6.03. The Mortgagee shall not be under any obligation to take any action under this Trust Indenture or any other Operative Agreement and nothing herein or therein shall require the Mortgagee to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur the risk of any financial liability in the performance of any of its rights or powers if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it (the written indemnity of any Note Holder who is a QIB, signed by an authorized officer thereof, in favor of, delivered to and in form reasonably satisfactory to the Mortgagee shall be accepted as reasonable assurance of adequate indemnity). The Mortgagee shall not be required to take any action under Section 6.01 (other than the first sentence thereof) or 6.02 or Article V hereof, nor shall any other provision of this Trust Indenture or any other Operative Agreement be deemed to impose a duty on the Mortgagee to take any action, if the Mortgagee shall have been advised by counsel that such action is contrary to the terms hereof or is otherwise contrary to Law.
          
SECTION 6.04. No Duties Except as Specified in Trust Indenture or Instructions
          The Mortgagee shall not have any duty or obligation to use, operate, store, lease, control, manage, sell, dispose of or otherwise deal with the Aircraft or any other part of the Collateral, or to otherwise take or refrain from taking any action under, or in connection with, this Trust Indenture or any part of the Collateral, except as expressly provided by the terms of this Trust Indenture or as expressly provided in written instructions from Note Holders as provided in this Trust Indenture; and no implied duties or obligations shall be read into this Trust Indenture against the Mortgagee. The Mortgagee agrees that it will in its individual capacity and at its own cost and expense (but without any right of indemnity in respect of any such cost or expense under Section 8.01 hereof), promptly take such action as may be necessary duly to discharge all Liens on any part of the Collateral which result from claims against it in its individual capacity not related to the administration of the Collateral or any other transaction pursuant to this Trust Indenture or any document included in the Collateral.
          
SECTION 6.05. No Action Except Under Trust Indenture or Instructions
          The Mortgagee will not use, operate, store, lease, control, manage, sell, dispose of or otherwise deal with the Aircraft or any other part of the Collateral except in accordance with the powers granted to, or the authority conferred upon the Mortgagee pursuant to this Trust Indenture and in accordance with the express terms hereof.
 
          
SECTION 6.06. Investment of Amounts Held by Mortgagee
          Any amounts held by the Mortgagee pursuant to Section 3.02, 3.03 or 3.07 or pursuant to any provision of any other Operative Agreement providing for amounts to be held by the Mortgagee which are not distributed pursuant to the other provisions of Article III hereof shall be invested by the Mortgagee from time to time in Cash Equivalents as directed by the Owner so long as the Mortgagee may acquire the same using its best efforts. All Cash Equivalents held by the Mortgagee pursuant to this Section 6.06 shall either be (a) registered in the name of, payable to the order of, or specially endorsed to, the Mortgagee, or (b) held in an Eligible Account. Unless otherwise expressly provided in this Trust Indenture, any income realized as a result of any such investment, net of the Mortgagee's reasonable fees and expenses in making such investment, shall be held and applied by the Mortgagee in the same manner as the principal amount of such investment is to be applied and any losses, net of earnings and such reasonable fees and expenses, shall be charged against the principal amount invested. The Mortgagee shall not be liable for any loss resulting from any investment required to be made by it under this Trust Indenture other than by reason of its willful misconduct or negligence in the handling of funds, and any such investment may be sold (without regard to its maturity) by the Mortgagee without instructions whenever such sale is necessary to make a distribution required by this Trust Indenture.
          
SECTION 7.01. Acceptance of Trusts and Duties
          The Mortgagee accepts the duties hereby created and applicable to it and agrees to perform the same but only upon the terms of this Trust Indenture and agrees to receive and disburse all monies constituting part of the Collateral in accordance with the terms hereof. The Mortgagee, in its individual capacity, shall not be answerable or accountable under any circumstances, except (i) for its own willful misconduct or gross negligence (other than for the handling of funds actually received by it in accordance with the terms of the Operative Agreements or the Pass Through Agreements, for which the standard of accountability shall be willful misconduct or negligence), (ii) as provided in the fourth sentence of Section 2.04(a) hereof and the last sentence of Section 6.04 hereof, and (iii) from the inaccuracy of any representation or warranty of the Mortgagee (in its individual capacity) in the Participation Agreement or expressly made hereunder.
          
SECTION 7.02. Absence of Duties
          Except in accordance with written instructions furnished pursuant to Section 6.01 or 6.02 hereof, and except as provided in, and without limiting the generality of, Sections 6.03, 6.04 and 7.07 hereof the Mortgagee shall have no duty (i) to see to any registration of the Aircraft or any recording or filing of this Trust Indenture or any other document, or to see to the maintenance of any such registration, recording or filing, (ii) to see to any insurance on the Aircraft or to effect or maintain any such insurance, whether or not Owner shall be in default with respect thereto, (iii) to see to the payment or discharge of any Lien of any kind against any
 
part of the Collateral, (iv) to confirm, verify or inquire into the failure to receive any financial statements from Owner, or (v) to inspect the Aircraft at any time or ascertain or inquire as to the performance or observance of any of Owner's covenants herein or any Permitted Lessee's covenants under any assigned Permitted Lease with respect to the Aircraft.
          
SECTION 7.03. No Representations or Warranties as to Aircraft or Documents
          THE MORTGAGEE IN ITS INDIVIDUAL OR TRUST CAPACITY DOES NOT MAKE AND SHALL NOT BE DEEMED TO HAVE MADE AND HEREBY EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ANY REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, AS TO THE TITLE, AIRWORTHINESS, VALUE, COMPLIANCE WITH SPECIFICATIONS, CONDITION, DESIGN, QUALITY, DURABILITY, OPERATION, MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR USE FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OF THE AIRCRAFT OR ANY ENGINE, AS TO THE ABSENCE OF LATENT OR OTHER DEFECTS, WHETHER OR NOT DISCOVERABLE, AS TO THE ABSENCE OF ANY INFRINGEMENT OF ANY PATENT, TRADEMARK OR COPYRIGHT, AS TO THE ABSENCE OF OBLIGATIONS BASED ON STRICT LIABILITY IN TORT OR ANY OTHER REPRESENTATION OR WARRANTY WHATSOEVER. The Mortgagee, in its individual or trust capacities, does not make nor shall it be deemed to have made any representation or warranty as to the validity, legality or enforceability of this Trust Indenture, the Participation Agreement, the Equipment Notes, or the Purchase Agreement, or as to the correctness of any statement contained in any thereof, except for the representations and warranties of the Mortgagee in its individual capacity, in each case expressly made in this Trust Indenture or in the Participation Agreement. The Note Holders make no representation or warranty hereunder whatsoever.
          
SECTION 7.04. No Segregation of Monies; No Interest
          Except as otherwise provided in Section 3.07 hereof, any monies paid to or retained by the Mortgagee pursuant to any provision hereof and not then required to be distributed to the Note Holders, or the Owner as provided in Article III hereof need not be segregated in any manner except to the extent required by Law or Section 6.06 hereof, and may be deposited under such general conditions as may be prescribed by Law, and the Mortgagee shall not be liable for any interest thereon (except that the Mortgagee shall invest all monies held as directed by Owner so long as no Event of Default has occurred and is continuing (or in the absence of such direction, by the Majority in Interest of Note Holders) in Cash Equivalents; , , that any payments received, or applied hereunder, by the Mortgagee shall be accounted for by the Mortgagee so that any portion thereof paid or applied pursuant hereto shall be identifiable as to the source thereof.
provided
however
          
SECTION 7.05. Reliance; Agreements; Advice of Counsel
          The Mortgagee shall not incur any liability to anyone in acting upon any signature, instrument, notice, resolution, request, consent, order, certificate, report, opinion, bond or other document or paper believed by it to be genuine and believed by it to be signed by the proper party or parties. The Mortgagee may accept a copy of a resolution of the Board of Directors (or Executive Committee thereof) of the Owner, certified by the Secretary or an
 
Assistant Secretary thereof as duly adopted and in full force and effect, as conclusive evidence that such resolution has been duly adopted and that the same is in full force and effect. As to the aggregate unpaid Original Amount of Equipment Notes outstanding as of any date, the Owner may for all purposes hereof rely on a certificate signed by any Vice President or other authorized corporate trust officer of the Mortgagee. As to any fact or matter relating to the Owner the manner of the ascertainment of which is not specifically described herein, the Mortgagee may for all purposes hereof rely on an Officer's Certificate of the Owner as to such fact or matter, and such certificate shall constitute full protection to the Mortgagee for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in reliance thereon. In the administration of the trusts hereunder, the Mortgagee may execute any of the trusts or powers hereof and perform its powers and duties hereunder directly or through agents or attorneys and may, at the expense of the Collateral, advise with counsel, accountants and other skilled persons to be selected and retained by it, and the Mortgagee shall not be liable for anything done, suffered or omitted in good faith by it in accordance with the written advice or written opinion of any such counsel, accountants or other skilled persons.
          
SECTION 7.06. Compensation
          The Mortgagee shall be entitled to reasonable compensation, including expenses and disbursements (including the reasonable fees and expenses of counsel), for all services rendered hereunder and shall, on and subsequent to an Event of Default hereunder, have a priority claim on the Collateral for the payment of such compensation (other than any Unindemnified Tax), to the extent that such compensation shall not be paid by Owner, and shall have the right, on and subsequent to an Event of Default hereunder, to use or apply any monies held by it hereunder in the Collateral toward such payments. The Mortgagee agrees that it shall have no right against the Note Holders for any fee as compensation for its services as trustee under this Trust Indenture.
          
SECTION 7.07. Instructions from Note Holders
          In the administration of the trusts created hereunder, the Mortgagee shall have the right to seek instructions from a Majority in Interest of Note Holders should any provision of this Trust Indenture appear to conflict with any other provision herein or should the Mortgagee's duties or obligations hereunder be unclear, and the Mortgagee shall incur no liability in refraining from acting until it receives such instructions. The Mortgagee shall be fully protected for acting in accordance with any instructions received under this Section 7.07.
          
SECTION 8.01. Scope of Indemnification
          The Mortgagee shall be indemnified by the Owner to the extent and in the manner provided in Section 8 of the Participation Agreement.
 
          
SECTION 9.01. Resignation of Mortgagee; Appointment of Successor
               (a) The Mortgagee or any successor thereto may resign at any time without cause by giving at least 30 days' prior written notice to the Owner and each Note Holder, such resignation to be effective upon the acceptance of the trusteeship by a successor Mortgagee. In addition, a Majority in Interest of Note Holders may at any time (but only with the consent of Owner, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, except that such consent shall not be necessary if an Event of Default is continuing) remove the Mortgagee without cause by an instrument in writing delivered to the Owner and the Mortgagee, and the Mortgagee shall promptly notify each Note Holder thereof in writing, such removal to be effective upon the acceptance of the trusteeship by a successor Mortgagee. In the case of the resignation or removal of the Mortgagee, a Majority in Interest of Note Holders may appoint a successor Mortgagee by an instrument signed by such holders, which successor, so long as no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, shall be subject to Owner's reasonable approval. If a successor Mortgagee shall not have been appointed within 30 days after such notice of resignation or removal, the Mortgagee, the Owner or any Note Holder may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction to appoint a successor Mortgagee to act until such time, if any, as a successor shall have been appointed as above provided. The successor Mortgagee so appointed by such court shall immediately and without further act be superseded by any successor Mortgagee appointed as above provided.
               (b) Any successor Mortgagee, however appointed, shall execute and deliver to the Owner and the predecessor Mortgagee an instrument accepting such appointment and assuming the obligations of the Mortgagee arising from and after the time of such appointment, and thereupon such successor Mortgagee, without further act, shall become vested with all the estates, properties, rights, powers and duties of the predecessor Mortgagee hereunder in the trust hereunder applicable to it with like effect as if originally named the Mortgagee herein; but nevertheless upon the written request of such successor Mortgagee, such predecessor Mortgagee shall execute and deliver an instrument transferring to such successor Mortgagee, upon the trusts herein expressed applicable to it, all the estates, properties, rights and powers of such predecessor Mortgagee, and such predecessor Mortgagee shall duly assign, transfer, deliver and pay over to such successor Mortgagee all monies or other property then held by such predecessor Mortgagee hereunder.
               (c) Any successor Mortgagee, however appointed, shall be a bank or trust company having its principal place of business in the continental United States and having (or whose obligations under the Operative Agreements are guaranteed by an affiliated entity having) a combined capital and surplus of at least $100,000,000, if there be such an institution willing, able and legally qualified to perform the duties of the Mortgagee hereunder upon reasonable or customary terms.
               (d) Any corporation into which the Mortgagee may be merged or converted or with which it may be consolidated, or any corporation resulting from any merger, conversion or consolidation to which the Mortgagee shall be a party, or any corporation to which
 
substantially all the corporate trust business of the Mortgagee may be transferred, shall, subject to the terms of paragraph (c) of this Section 9.01, be a successor Mortgagee and the Mortgagee under this Trust Indenture without further act.
               (e) The Owner consents to any change in the identity of the Mortgagee on the International Registry occasioned by provisions of this Section 9.01, and if required by the International Registry to reflect such change, will provide its consent thereto.
          
SECTION 9.02. Appointment of Additional and Separate Trustees
               (a) Whenever (i) the Mortgagee shall deem it necessary or desirable in order to conform to any Law of any jurisdiction in which all or any part of the Collateral shall be situated or to make any claim or bring any suit with respect to or in connection with the Collateral, this Trust Indenture, any other Indenture Agreement, the Equipment Notes or any of the transactions contemplated by the Participation Agreement, (ii) the Mortgagee shall be advised by counsel satisfactory to it that it is so necessary or prudent in the interests of the Note Holders (and the Mortgagee shall so advise the Owner), or (iii) the Mortgagee shall have been requested to do so by a Majority in Interest of Note Holders, then in any such case, the Mortgagee and, upon the written request of the Mortgagee, the Owner, shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto and such other instruments as may from time to time be necessary or advisable either (1) to constitute one or more bank or trust companies or one or more persons approved by the Mortgagee, either to act jointly with the Mortgagee as additional trustee or trustees of all or any part of the Collateral, or to act as separate trustee or trustees of all or any part of the Collateral, in each case with such rights, powers, duties and obligations consistent with this Trust Indenture as may be provided in such supplemental indenture or other instruments as the Mortgagee or a Majority in Interest of Note Holders may deem necessary or advisable, or (2) to clarify, add to or subtract from the rights, powers, duties and obligations theretofore granted any such additional or separate trustee, subject in each case to the remaining provisions of this Section 9.02. If the Owner shall not have taken any action requested of it under this Section 9.02(a) that is permitted or required by its terms within 15 days after the receipt of a written request from the Mortgagee so to do, or if an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Mortgagee may act under the foregoing provisions of this Section 9.02(a) without the concurrence of the Owner, and the Owner hereby irrevocably appoints (which appointment is coupled with an interest) the Mortgagee, its agent and attorney-in-fact to act for it under the foregoing provisions of this Section 9.02(a) in either of such contingencies. The Mortgagee may, in such capacity, execute, deliver and perform any such supplemental indenture, or any such instrument, as may be required for the appointment of any such additional or separate trustee or for the clarification of, addition to or subtraction from the rights, powers, duties or obligations theretofore granted to any such additional or separate trustee. In case any additional or separate trustee appointed under this Section 9.02(a) shall die, become incapable of acting, resign or be moved, all the assets, property, rights, powers, trusts, duties and obligations of such additional or separate trustee shall revert to the Mortgagee until a successor additional or separate trustee is appointed as provided in this Section 9.02(a).
               (b) No additional or separate trustee shall be entitled to exercise any of the rights, powers, duties and obligations conferred upon the Mortgagee in respect of the custody, investment and payment of monies and all monies received by any such additional or
 
separate trustee from or constituting part of the Collateral or otherwise payable under any Operative Agreement to the Mortgagee shall be promptly paid over by it to the Mortgagee. All other rights, powers, duties and obligations conferred or imposed upon any additional or separate trustee shall be exercised or performed by the Mortgagee and such additional or separate trustee jointly except to the extent that applicable Law of any jurisdiction in which any particular act is to be performed renders the Mortgagee incompetent or unqualified to perform such act, in which event such rights, powers, duties and obligations (including the holding of title to all or part of the Collateral in any such jurisdiction) shall be exercised and performed by such additional or separate trustee. No additional or separate trustee shall take any discretionary action except on the instructions of the Mortgagee or a Majority in Interest of Note Holders. No trustee hereunder shall be personally liable by reason of any act or omission of any other trustee hereunder, except that the Mortgagee shall be liable for the consequences of its lack of reasonable care in selecting, and the Mortgagee's own actions in acting with, any additional or separate trustee. Each additional or separate trustee appointed pursuant to this Section 9.02 shall be subject to, and shall have the benefit of Articles V through IX and Article XI hereof insofar as they apply to the Mortgagee. The powers of any additional or separate trustee appointed pursuant to this Section 9.02 shall not in any case exceed those of the Mortgagee hereunder.
               (c) If at any time the Mortgagee shall deem it no longer necessary or in order to conform to any such Law or take any such action or shall be advised by such counsel that it is no longer so necessary or desirable in the interest of the Note Holders, or in the event that the Mortgagee shall have been requested to do so in writing by a Majority in Interest of Note Holders, the Mortgagee and, upon the written request of the Mortgagee, the Owner, shall execute and deliver an indenture supplemental hereto and all other instruments and agreements necessary or proper to remove any additional or separate trustee. The Mortgagee may act on behalf of the Owner under this Section 9.02(c) when and to the extent it could so act under Section 9.02(a) hereof.
          
SECTION 10.01. Instructions of Majority; Limitations
               (a) The Mortgagee agrees with the Note Holders that it shall not enter into any amendment, waiver or modification of, supplement or consent to this Trust Indenture, or any other Operative Agreement to which it is a party, unless such supplement, amendment, waiver, modification or consent is consented to in writing by a Majority in Interest of Note Holders, but upon the written request of a Majority in Interest of Note Holders, the Mortgagee shall from time to time enter into any such supplement or amendment, or execute and deliver any such waiver, modification or consent, as may be specified in such request and as may be (in the case of any such amendment, supplement or modification), to the extent such agreement is required, agreed to by the Owner and, as may be appropriate, the Airframe Manufacturer or the Engine Manufacturer; , , that, without the consent of each holder of an affected Equipment Note then outstanding and of the Liquidity Provider, no such amendment, waiver or modification of the terms of, or consent under, any thereof, shall (i) modify any of the provisions
provided
however
 
of this Section 10.01, or of Article II or III or Section 5.01, 5.02(c), 5.02(d), or 6.02 hereof, the definitions of "Event of Default," "Default," "Majority in Interest of Note Holders," "Make-Whole Amount" or "Note Holder," or the percentage of Note Holders required to take or approve any action hereunder, (ii) reduce the amount, or change the time of payment or method of calculation of any amount, of Original Amount, Make-Whole Amount, if any, or interest with respect to any Equipment Note, (iii) reduce, modify or amend any indemnities in favor of the Mortgagee or the Note Holders (except that the Mortgagee may consent to any waiver or reduction of an indemnity payable to it), or the other Indenture Indemnitees or (iv) permit the creation of any Lien on the Collateral or any part thereof other than Permitted Liens or deprive any Note Holder of the benefit of the Lien of this Trust Indenture on the Collateral, except as provided in connection with the exercise of remedies under Article V hereof; , , that without the consent of each holder of an affected Related Equipment Note then outstanding, no amendment, waiver or modification of the terms hereof shall modify Section 3.03 or reduce the amount payable with respect to such Related Equipment Note, or the date on which any amount is payable with respect to such Related Equipment Note or deprive any Related Note Holder of the benefit of the Lien of this Trust Indenture on the Collateral, except as provided in Section 2.06 or 11.01 hereof or in connection with the exercise of remedies under Article V hereof. Notwithstanding the foregoing, without the consent of the Liquidity Provider neither the Owner nor the Mortgagee shall enter into any amendment, waiver or modification of, supplement or consent to this Trust Indenture or the other Operative Agreements which shall reduce, modify or amend any indemnities in favor of the Liquidity Provider.
provided
further
               (b) The Owner and the Mortgagee may enter into one or more agreements supplemental hereto without the consent of any Note Holder for any of the following purposes: (i) (a) to cure any defect or inconsistency herein or in the Equipment Notes, or to make any change not inconsistent with the provisions hereof ( that such change does not adversely affect the interests of any Note Holder in its capacity solely as Note Holder) or (b) to cure any ambiguity or correct any mistake; (ii) to evidence the succession of another party as the Owner in accordance with the terms hereof or to evidence the succession of a new trustee hereunder pursuant hereto, the removal of the trustee hereunder or the appointment of any co-trustee or co-trustees or any separate or additional trustee or trustees; (iii) to convey, transfer, assign, mortgage or pledge any property to or with the Mortgagee or to make any other provisions with respect to matters or questions arising hereunder so long as such action shall not adversely affect the interests of any Note Holder in its capacity solely as Note Holder; (iv) to correct or amplify the description of any property at any time subject to the Lien of this Trust Indenture or better to assure, convey and confirm unto the Mortgagee any property subject or required to be subject to the Lien of this Trust Indenture, the Airframe or Engines or any Replacement Airframe or Replacement Engine; (v) to add to the covenants of the Owner for the benefit of the Note Holders, or to surrender any rights or power herein conferred upon the Owner; (vi) to add to the rights of the Note Holders; and (vii) to provide for the reissuance of Series B Equipment Notes (and Related Series B Equipment Notes) or the issuance or reissuance from time to time of one or more series of Additional Series Equipment Notes (and any Related Additional Series Equipment Notes) and for pass through certificates issued by any pass through trust that acquires any such Equipment Notes and to make changes relating to any of the foregoing (including without limitation to further provide for the issuance of more than one Series of Additional Series Equipment Notes (including without limitation to provide for the relative priority of different Series of Additional Series Equipment Notes as between such series)
provided
 
and to provide for any credit support for any such issued or reissued Equipment Notes or Related Equipment Notes (including without limitation to secure claims for fees, interest, expenses, reimbursement of advances and other obligations arising from such credit support (including without limitation to specify such credit support as a "Liquidity Facility" and the provider of any such credit support as a "Liquidity Provider")), provided that such Equipment Notes are issued in accordance with the terms of this Trust Indenture and Section 9.1 of the Intercreditor Agreement.
          
SECTION 10.02. Mortgagee Protected
          If, in the opinion of the institution acting as Mortgagee hereunder, any document required to be executed by it pursuant to the terms of Section 10.01 hereof affects any right, duty, immunity or indemnity with respect to such institution under this Trust Indenture, such institution may in its discretion decline to execute such document.
          
SECTION 10.03. Documents Mailed to Note Holders
          Promptly after the execution by the Owner or the Mortgagee of any document entered into pursuant to Section 10.01 hereof, the Mortgagee shall mail, by first class mail, postage prepaid, a copy thereof to Owner (if not a party thereto) and to each Note Holder at its address last set forth in the Equipment Note Register, but the failure of the Mortgagee to mail such copies shall not impair or affect the validity of such document.
          
SECTION 10.04. No Request Necessary for Trust Indenture Supplement
          No written request or consent of the Note Holders pursuant to Section 10.01 hereof shall be required to enable the Mortgagee to execute and deliver a Trust Indenture Supplement specifically required by the terms hereof.
          
SECTION 11.01. Termination of Trust Indenture
          Upon (or at any time after) payment in full of the Original Amount of, Make-Whole Amount, if any, and interest on and all other amounts due under all Equipment Notes and provided that there shall then be no other Secured Obligations due to the Indenture Indemnitees, the Note Holders and the Mortgagee hereunder or under the Participation Agreement or other Operative Agreement, and so long as no Related Payment Default or Related Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, the Owner shall direct the Mortgagee to execute and deliver to or as directed in writing by the Owner an appropriate instrument releasing the Aircraft and the Engines and all other Collateral (subject to clause "Fifth" of Section 3.03 hereof, if applicable) from the Lien of the Trust Indenture and the Mortgagee shall execute and deliver such instrument as aforesaid; , , that this Trust Indenture and the trusts created hereby shall earlier terminate and this Trust Indenture shall be of no further force or effect upon any sale or other final disposition by the Mortgagee of all property constituting part of the Collateral and the final distribution by the Mortgagee of all monies or other property or proceeds
provided
however
 
constituting part of the Collateral in accordance with the terms hereof. Except as aforesaid otherwise provided, this Trust Indenture and the trusts created hereby shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with the terms hereof.
          
SECTION 11.02. No Legal Title to Collateral in Note Holders
          No holder of an Equipment Note or a Related Equipment Note shall have legal title to any part of the Collateral. No transfer, by operation of law or otherwise, of any Equipment Note or Related Equipment Note or other right, title and interest of any Note Holder or holder of a Related Equipment Note in and to the Collateral or hereunder shall operate to terminate this Trust Indenture or entitle such holder or any successor or transferee of such holder to an accounting or to the transfer to it of any legal title to any part of the Collateral.
          
SECTION 11.03. Sale of Aircraft by Mortgagee Is Binding
          Any sale or other conveyance of the Collateral, or any part thereof (including any part thereof or interest therein), by the Mortgagee made pursuant to the terms of this Trust Indenture shall bind the Note Holders and shall be effective to transfer or convey all right, title and interest of the Mortgagee, the Owner and such holders in and to such Collateral or part thereof. No purchaser or other grantee shall be required to inquire as to the authorization, necessity, expediency or regularity of such sale or conveyance or as to the application of any sale or other proceeds with respect thereto by the Mortgagee.
          
SECTION 11.04. Trust Indenture for Benefit of Owner, Mortgagee, Note Holders, Related Secured Parties and the other Indenture Indemnitees
          Nothing in this Trust Indenture, whether express or implied, shall be construed to give any person other than the Owner, the Mortgagee, the Note Holders, the Related Secured Parties and the other Indenture Indemnitees, any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Trust Indenture, except that the persons referred to in the last paragraph of Section 4.02(b) shall be third party beneficiaries of such paragraph.
          
SECTION 11.05. Notices
          Unless otherwise expressly specified or permitted by the terms hereof, all notices, requests, demands, authorizations, directions, consents, waivers or documents provided or permitted by this Trust Indenture to be made, given, furnished or filed shall be in writing, personally delivered or mailed by certified mail, postage prepaid, or by facsimile and (i) if to the Owner, addressed to it at 2702 Love Field Drive, P.O. Box 36611, Dallas, Texas 75235-1611, Attention: Treasurer, facsimile number (214) 792-4022, (ii) if to Mortgagee, addressed to it at its office at Rodney Square North, 1100 North Market Street, Wilmington, Delaware 19890, Attention: Corporate Trust Administration, facsimile number (302) 636-4144, and (iii) if to any Note Holder or any Indenture Indemnitee, addressed to such Person at such address as such Person shall have furnished by notice to the Owner and the Mortgagee, or, until an address is so furnished, addressed to the address any Person referred to in clauses (i)-(iii) set forth on Schedule 1 to the Participation Agreement or in the Equipment Note Register. Whenever any notice in writing is required to be given by the Owner or the Mortgagee or any Note Holder to any of the other of them, such notice shall be deemed given and such requirement satisfied when
 
such notice is received, or if such notice is mailed by certified mail, postage prepaid, three Business Days after being mailed, addressed as provided above. Any such Person may change the address to which notices to such Person will be sent by giving notice of such change to such other Persons.
          
SECTION 11.06. Severability
          Any provision of this Trust Indenture which is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof. Any such prohibition or unenforceability in any particular jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
          
SECTION 11.07. No Oral Modification or Continuing Waivers
          No term or provision of this Trust Indenture or the Equipment Notes may be changed, waived, discharged or terminated orally, but only by an instrument in writing signed by the Owner and the Mortgagee, in compliance with Section 10.01 hereof. Any waiver of the terms hereof or of any Equipment Note shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose given.
          
SECTION 11.08. Successors and Assigns
          All covenants and agreements contained herein shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, each of the parties hereto and the permitted successors and assigns of each, all as herein provided. Any request, notice, direction, consent, waiver or other instrument or action by any Note Holder shall bind the successors and assigns of such holder. Each Note Holder by its acceptance of an Equipment Note agrees to be bound by this Trust Indenture and all provisions of the Operative Agreements applicable to a Note Holder.
          
SECTION 11.09. Headings
          The headings of the various Articles and sections herein and in the table of contents hereto are for convenience of reference only and shall not define or limit any of the terms or provisions hereof.
          
SECTION 11.10. Normal Commercial Relations
          Anything contained in this Trust Indenture to the contrary notwithstanding. Owner and Mortgagee may conduct any banking or other financial transactions, and have banking or other commercial relationships, with each other, fully to the same extent as if this Trust Indenture were not in effect, including without limitation the making of loans or other extensions of credit to Owner for any purpose whatsoever, whether related to any of the transactions contemplated hereby or otherwise.
 
          
SECTION 11.11. Governing Law; Counterpart Form
          THIS TRUST INDENTURE SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK. THIS TRUST INDENTURE IS BEING DELIVERED IN THE STATE OF NEW YORK. This Trust Indenture may be executed by the parties hereto in separate counterparts (or upon separate signature pages bound together into one or more counterparts), each of which when so executed and delivered shall be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same instrument.
          
SECTION 11.12. Voting By Note Holders
          All votes of the Note Holders shall be governed by a vote of a Majority in Interest of Note Holders, except as otherwise provided herein.
          
SECTION 11.13. Bankruptcy
          It is the intention of the parties that the Mortgagee shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 1110 with respect to the right to take possession of the Aircraft, Airframe, Engines and Parts and to exercise any of its other rights or remedies as provided herein in the event of a case under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in which Owner is a debtor, and in any instance where more than one construction is possible of the terms and conditions hereof or any other pertinent Operative Agreement, each such party agrees that a construction which would preserve such benefits shall control over any construction which would not preserve such benefits.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Trust Indenture and Mortgage to be duly executed by their respective officers thereof duly authorized as of the day and year first above written.
 
               (a) In each Operative Agreement, unless otherwise expressly provided, a reference to:
               (b) Each exhibit, annex and schedule to each Operative Agreement is incorporated in, and shall be deemed to be a part of, such Operative Agreement.
 
               (c) Unless otherwise defined or specified in any Operative Agreement, all accounting terms therein shall be construed and all accounting determinations thereunder shall be made in accordance with GAAP.
               (d) Headings used in any Operative Agreement are for convenience only and shall not in any way affect the construction of, or be taken into consideration in interpreting, such Operative Agreement.
               (e) For purposes of each Operative Agreement, the occurrence and continuance of a Default or Event of Default referred to in Section 5.01(v), (vi) or (vii) shall not be deemed to prohibit the Owner from taking any action or exercising any right that is conditioned on no Special Default, Default or Event of Default having occurred and be continuing if such Special Default, Default or Event of Default consists of the institution of reorganization proceedings with respect to Owner under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code and the trustee or debtor-in-possession in such proceedings shall have entered into one or more agreements under Section 1110 to perform all of its obligations under the Trust Indenture and shall have cured any default under the Trust Indenture in accordance with Section 1110 and thereafter continued to perform such obligations in accordance with Section 1110.
          "" means part A of subtitle VII of title 49, United States Code.
Act
          "" means (a) as it applies to Mortgagee, actual knowledge of a responsible officer in the Corporate Trust Office, and (b) as it applies to Owner, actual knowledge of a Vice President or more senior officer of Owner or any other officer of Owner having responsibility for the transactions contemplated by the Operative Agreements; that each of Owner and Mortgagee shall be deemed to have "Actual Knowledge" of any matter as to which it has received notice from Owner, any Note Holder or Mortgagee, such notice having been given pursuant to Section 11.05 of the Trust Indenture.
Actual Knowledge
provided
          "" or "" means Equipment Notes issued under the Trust Indenture and designated as a series (other than "Series A" or "Series B") thereunder, in the Original Amount and maturities and bearing interest as specified in Schedule I to the Trust Indenture (as amended at the time of original issuance of such Additional Series) under the heading for such series.
Additional Series
Additional Series Equipment Notes
          "" means, with respect to any person, any other person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by or under common control with such person. For purposes of this definition, "control" means the power, directly or indirectly, to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such person, whether through the ownership of voting securities or by contract or otherwise and "controlling," "controlled by" and "under common control with" have correlative meanings.
Affiliate
          "" means, collectively, the Airframe and Engines.
Aircraft
 
          "" means the full warranty bill of sale covering the Aircraft delivered by Airframe Manufacturer or its Affiliate to Owner.
Aircraft Bill of Sale
          "" means all technical data, manuals and log books, and all inspection, modification and overhaul records and other service, repair, maintenance and technical records that are required by (i) the FAA per Federal Aviation Regulation FAR 121.380A (or successor regulation) and any other relevant regulation promulgated by the FAA which is applicable to Owner as an operator under Federal Aviation Regulation FAR 121 or (ii) the relevant Aviation Authority, to be transferred with respect to the Aircraft, Airframe, Engines or Parts and such term shall include all additions, renewals, revisions and replacements of any such materials from time to time made prior to the release of the Lien of the Trust Indenture, or required to be made prior to the release of the Lien of the Trust Indenture, by the regulations of the FAA or the relevant Aviation Authority, and in each case in whatever form and by whatever means or medium (including, without limitation, microfiche, microfilm, paper, CD-ROM or computer disk) such materials may be maintained or retained by or on behalf of Owner (, that all such materials shall be maintained in the English language).
Aircraft Documents
provided
          "" means (a) the aircraft (excluding Engines or engines from time to time installed thereon) manufactured by Airframe Manufacturer and identified by Airframe Manufacturer's model number, United States registration number and Airframe Manufacturer's serial number set forth in the initial Trust Indenture Supplement and any Replacement Airframe and (b) any and all Parts. Upon substitution of a Replacement Airframe under and in accordance with the Trust Indenture, such Replacement Airframe shall become subject to the Trust Indenture and shall be the "Airframe" for all purposes of the Trust Indenture and the other Operative Agreements and thereupon the Airframe for which the substitution is made shall no longer be subject to the Trust Indenture, and such replaced Airframe shall cease to be the "Airframe."
Airframe
          "" means The Boeing Company, a Delaware corporation.
Airframe Manufacturer
          "" means each of the separate pass through trusts created under the Applicable Pass Through Trust Agreements.
Applicable Pass Through Trust
          "" means each of the separate Pass Through Trust Agreements by and between the Owner and an Applicable Pass Through Trustee.
Applicable Pass Through Trust Agreement
          "" means each Pass Through Trustee that is a party to the Participation Agreement.
Applicable Pass Through Trustee
          "" for any Equipment Note shall be the date which follows the time of determination by a period equal to the Remaining Weighted Average Life of such Equipment Note. "Remaining Weighted Average Life" on a given date with respect to any Equipment Note shall be the number of days equal to the quotient obtained by dividing (a) the sum of each of the products obtained by multiplying (i) the amount of each then remaining scheduled payment of principal of such Equipment Note by (ii) the number of days from and including such determination date to but excluding the date on which such payment of principal is scheduled to be made, by (b) the then outstanding principal amount of such Equipment Note.
Average Life Date
 
          "" means the FAA or, if the Aircraft is permitted to be, and is, registered with any other Government Entity under and in accordance with Section 4.02 (e) of the Trust Indenture and Section 6.4.5 of the Participation Agreement, such other Government Entity.
Aviation Authority
          "" means the United States Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. Sections 101
Bankruptcy Code
et seq.
          "" means the Pass Through Trust Agreement, dated July 21, 2005, between Owner and Pass Through Trustee, but does not include any Trust Supplement.
Basic Pass Through Trust Agreement
          "" means the FAA Bill of Sale and the Aircraft Bill of Sale.
Bills of Sale
          "" means any day other than a Saturday, Sunday or other day on which commercial banks are authorized or required by law to close in New York, New York, Dallas, Texas, or Wilmington, Delaware.
Business Day
          "" means the Cape Town Convention on International Interests in Mobile Equipment and the related Aircraft Equipment Protocol, as in effect in the United States.
Cape Town Treaty
          "" means the following securities (which shall mature within 90 days of the date of purchase thereof): (a) direct obligations of the U.S. Government; (b) obligations fully guaranteed by the U.S. Government; (c) certificates of deposit issued by, or bankers' acceptances of, or time deposits or a deposit account with, Mortgagee or any bank, trust company or national banking association incorporated or doing business under the laws of the United States or any state thereof having a combined capital and surplus and retained earnings of at least $500,000,000 and having a Thomson BankWatch Rating of "C" or better; or (d) commercial paper of any issuer doing business under the laws of the United States or one of the states thereof and in each case having a rating assigned to such commercial paper by Standard & Poor's or Moody's equal to A1, P1 or higher.
Cash Equivalents
          "" is defined in the Pass Through Trust Agreements.
Certificate Owner
          "" is defined in 49 U.S.C.  40102(a)(15).
Citizen of the United States
          "" means the closing of the transactions contemplated by the Participation Agreement.
Closing
          "" means the date on which the Closing occurs.
Closing Date
          "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended; provided that, when used in relation to a Plan, "Code" shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and any regulations and rulings issued thereunder, all as amended and in effect from time to time.
Code
          "" is defined in the Granting Clause of the Trust Indenture.
Collateral
 
          "" means the Manufacturer Consent and Agreement N259WN, dated as of even date with the Participation Agreement, of Airframe Manufacturer.
Consent and Agreement
          "" means the principal office of Mortgagee located at Mortgagee's address for notices under the Participation Agreement or such other office at which Mortgagee's corporate trust business shall be administered which Mortgagee shall have specified by notice in writing to Owner and each Note Holder.
Corporate Trust Office
          "" means the Civil Reserve Air Fleet Program established pursuant to 10 U.S.C. Section 9511-13 or any similar substitute program.
CRAF
          "" means, with respect to (i) any Series of Equipment Notes, the rate per annum specified for such Series under the heading "Interest Rate" in Schedule I to the Trust Indenture (as amended, in the case of any Additional Series, at the time of original issuance of such Additional Series), and (ii) any other purpose, with respect to any period, the weighted average interest rate per annum during such period borne by the outstanding Equipment Notes, excluding any interest payable at the Payment Due Rate.
Debt Rate
          "" means any event or condition that with the giving of notice or the lapse of time or both would become an Event of Default.
Default
          "," "" or "" means the lawful currency of the United States.
Dollars
United States Dollars
$
          "" means the Department of Transportation of the United States or any Government Entity succeeding to the functions of such Department of Transportation.
DOT
          "" means an account established by and with an Eligible Institution at the request of the Mortgagee, which institution agrees, for all purposes of the UCC including Article 8 thereof, that (a) such account shall be a "securities account" (as defined in Section 8-501(a) of the UCC), (b) all property (other than cash) credited to such account shall be treated as a "financial asset" (as defined in Section 8-102(a)(9) of the UCC), (c) the Mortgagee shall be the "entitlement holder" (as defined in Section 8-102(a)(7) of the UCC) in respect of such account, (d) it will comply with all entitlement orders issued by the Mortgagee to the exclusion of the Owner, and (e) the "securities intermediary jurisdiction" (under Section 8-110(e) of the UCC) shall be the State of New York.
Eligible Account
          "" means the corporate trust department of (a) Wilmington Trust Company, acting solely in its capacity as a "securities intermediary" (as defined in Section 8-102(a)(14) of the UCC), or (b) a depository institution organized under the laws of the United States of America or any one of the states thereof or the District of Columbia (or any U.S. branch of a foreign bank), which has a long-term unsecured debt rating from Moody's and Standard & Poor's of at least A3/A- or its equivalent.
Eligible Institution
          "" means (a) each of the engines manufactured by Engine Manufacturer and identified by Engine Manufacturer's model number and Engine Manufacturer's serial number set forth in the initial Trust Indenture Supplement and originally installed on the
Engine
 
Airframe, and any Replacement Engine, in any case whether or not from time to time installed on such Airframe or installed on any other airframe or aircraft, and (b) any and all Parts. Upon substitution of a Replacement Engine under and in accordance with the Trust Indenture, such Replacement Engine shall become subject to the Trust Indenture and shall be an "Engine" for all purposes of the Trust Indenture and the other Operative Agreements and thereupon the Engine for which the substitution is made shall no longer be subject to the Trust Indenture, and such replaced Engine shall cease to be an "Engine."
          "" means the Engine Manufacturer Consent and Agreement N259WN dated as of even date with the Participation Agreement, of Engine Manufacturer.
Engine Consent and Agreement
          "" means CFM International, Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Delaware.
Engine Manufacturer
          "" is defined in Section 2.07 of the Trust Indenture.
Equipment Note Register
          "" means and includes any equipment notes issued under the Trust Indenture in the form specified in Section 2.01 thereof (as such form may be varied pursuant to the terms of the Trust Indenture) and any Equipment Note issued under the Trust Indenture in exchange for or replacement of any Equipment Note.
Equipment Notes
          "" means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, and any regulations and rulings issued thereunder all as amended and in effect from time to time.
ERISA
          "" is defined in Section 5.01 of the Trust Indenture.
Event of Default
          "" means, with respect to the Aircraft, Airframe or any Engine, any of the following circumstances, conditions or events with respect to such property, for any reason whatsoever:
Event of Loss
               (a) the destruction of such property, damage to such property beyond economic repair or rendition of such property permanently unfit for normal use by Owner;
               (b) the actual or constructive total loss of such property or any damage to such property, or requisition of title or use of such property, which results in an insurance settlement with respect to such property on the basis of a total loss or constructive or compromised total loss;
               (c) any theft, hijacking or disappearance of such property for a period of 180 consecutive days or more;
               (d) any seizure, condemnation, confiscation, taking or requisition (including loss of title) of such property by any Government Entity or purported Government Entity (other than a requisition of use by a Permitted Government Entity) for a period exceeding 12 consecutive months;
 
               (e) as a result of any law, rule, regulation, order or other action by the Aviation Authority or by any Government Entity of the government of registry of the Aircraft or by any Government Entity otherwise having jurisdiction over the operation or use of the Aircraft, the use of such property in the normal course of Owner's business of passenger air transportation is prohibited for a period of 18 consecutive months unless Owner, prior to the expiration of such 18-month period, shall have undertaken and shall be diligently carrying forward such steps as may be necessary or desirable to permit the normal use of such property by Owner, but in any event if such use shall have been prohibited for a period of three consecutive years; and
               (f) any divestiture of title to an Engine treated as an Event of Loss pursuant to Section 4.02(b) of the Trust Indenture.
     "" means any and all liabilities, obligations, losses, damages, settlements, penalties, claims, actions, suits, costs, expenses and disbursements (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and disbursements of legal counsel, accountants, appraisers, inspectors or other professionals, and costs of investigation).
Expenses
          "" means the Federal Aviation Administration of the United States or any Government Entity succeeding to the functions of such Federal Aviation Administration.
FAA
          "" means a bill of sale for the Aircraft on AC Form 8050-2 (or such other form as may be approved by the FAA) delivered to Owner by Airframe Manufacturer.
FAA Bill of Sale
          "" means the Trust Indenture, the initial Trust Indenture Supplement, the FAA Bill of Sale, AC Form 8050-135 with respect to the International Interests and an application for registration of the Aircraft with the FAA in the name of Owner.
FAA Filed Documents
          "" means the Federal Aviation Regulations issued or promulgated pursuant to the Act from time to time.
FAA Regulations
          "" means August 1, 2022 (or, if not a Business Day, the next Business Day).
Final Payment Date
          "" means, collectively, UCC-1 (and, where appropriate, UCC-3) financing statements covering the Collateral, by Owner, as debtor, showing Mortgagee as secured party, for filing in Texas and each other jurisdiction that, in the opinion of Mortgagee, is necessary to perfect its Lien on the Collateral.
Financing Statements
          "" means generally accepted accounting principles as set forth in the statements of financial accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, as such principles may at any time or from time to time be varied by any applicable financial accounting rules or regulations issued by the SEC and, with respect to any person, shall mean such principles applied on a basis consistent with prior periods except as may be disclosed in such person's financial statements.
GAAP
          "" means (a) any federal, state, provincial or similar government, and any body, board, department, commission, court, tribunal, authority, agency or other instrumentality of any such government or otherwise exercising any executive, legislative,
Government Entity
 
judicial, administrative or regulatory functions of such government or (b) any other government entity having jurisdiction over any matter contemplated by the Operative Agreements or relating to the observance or performance of the obligations of any of the parties to the Operative Agreements.
          "" means (i) WTC and Mortgagee, (ii) each separate or additional trustee appointed pursuant to the Trust Indenture, (iii) the Subordination Agent and, solely in respect of Section 8.1 of the Participation Agreement, each Pass Through Trustee, (iv) the Liquidity Provider, (v) each Note Holder and each Related Note Holder, (vi) each Affiliate of the persons described in clauses (i) through (v), inclusive and (vii) the respective directors, officers and employees of each of the persons described in clauses (i) through (vi) inclusive; provided that the persons described in clauses (iii), (iv) and (v), and their respective Affiliates, directors, officers and employees are Indemnitees only for purposes of Section 8.1 of the Participation Agreement.
Indemnitee
          "" means the Purchase Agreement and the Bills of Sale, to the extent included in Granting Clause (2) of the Trust Indenture, and any other contract, agreement or instrument from time to time assigned or pledged under the Trust Indenture.
Indenture Agreements
          "" means any condition, circumstance, act or event that, with the giving of notice, the lapse of time or both, would constitute an Indenture Event of Default.
Indenture Default
          "" means any one or more of the conditions, circumstances, acts or events set forth in Section 5.01 of the Trust Indenture.
Indenture Event of Default
          "" means (i) WTC and the Mortgagee, (ii) each separate or additional trustee appointed pursuant to the Trust Indenture, (iii) the Subordination Agent, (iv) the Liquidity Provider, (v) each Pass Through Trustee, and (vi) each of the respective directors, officers, employees, agents and servants of each of the persons described in clauses (i) through (v) inclusive above.
Indenture Indemnitee
          "" means that certain Intercreditor Agreement among the Pass Through Trustees, the Liquidity Provider and the Subordination Agent, dated as of October 3, 2007, provided that (i) with respect to any matter specified in the second proviso to the first sentence of Section 9.1(a) of the Intercreditor Agreement, no amendment, modification or supplement to, or substitution or replacement of, such Intercreditor Agreement shall be effective unless consented to by Owner and (ii) no amendment, modification or supplement to, or substitution or replacement of, such Intercreditor Agreement occurring after the date on which an Equipment Note ceases to be held of record by the Subordination Agent shall be effective as against any Note Holder of such Equipment Note in relation to clauses (ii) and (iii) of the penultimate sentence of Section 2.07 of the Trust Indenture unless such amendment, modification, supplement, substitution or replacement has been consented to by such Note Holder (after which the same shall be effective against any subsequent Note Holders of such Equipment Note).
Intercreditor Agreement
          "" has the meaning attributed to "international interest" in the Cape Town Treaty.
International Interest
 
          "" is defined in the Cape Town Treaty.
International Registry
          "" means the Internal Revenue Service of the United States or any Government Entity succeeding to the functions of such Internal Revenue Service.
IRS
          "" means October 3, 2007.
Issuance Date
          "" means (a) any constitution, treaty, statute, law, decree, regulation, order, rule or directive of any Government Entity, and (b) any judicial or administrative interpretation or application of, or decision under, any of the foregoing.
Law
          "" means any mortgage, pledge, lien, charge, claim, encumbrance, lease or security interest affecting the title to or any interest in property.
Lien
          "" means the Revolving Credit Agreement between the Subordination Agent, as borrower, and the Liquidity Provider, dated as of the Issuance Date, that, for purposes of any obligation of Owner, no amendment, modification or supplement to, or substitution or replacement of, the Liquidity Facility shall be effective unless consented to by Owner.
Liquidity Facility
provided
          "" means BNP Paribas, New York branch.
Liquidity Provider
          "" means as of a particular date of determination, (i) the holders of a majority in aggregate unpaid Original Amount of all Equipment Notes outstanding as of such date (excluding any Equipment Notes held by Owner or any of its Affiliates (unless all Equipment Notes then outstanding shall be held by Owner or any Affiliate of Owner); that for the purposes of directing any action or casting any vote or giving any consent, waiver or instruction hereunder, any Note Holder of an Equipment Note or Equipment Notes may allocate, in such Note Holder's sole discretion, any fractional portion of the principal amount of such Equipment Note or Equipment Notes in favor of or in opposition to any such action, vote, consent, waiver or instruction, and (ii) if all the Secured Obligations have been paid in full, the "Controlling Party" under and as defined in the Intercreditor Agreement.
Majority in Interest of Note Holders
provided
          "" means, with respect to any Equipment Note, an amount (as determined by an independent investment bank of national standing) equal to the excess, if any, of (a) the present value of the remaining scheduled payments of principal and interest to maturity of such Equipment Note computed by discounting such payments on a semiannual basis on each Payment Date (assuming a 360-day year of twelve 30-day months) using a discount rate equal to the Treasury Yield plus the Make-Whole Spread, (b) the outstanding principal amount of such Equipment Note plus accrued interest to the date of determination. For purposes of determining the Make-Whole Amount, "Treasury Yield" means, at the date of determination with respect to any Equipment Note, the interest rate (expressed as a decimal and, in the case of United States Treasury bills, converted to a bond equivalent yield) determined to be the per annum rate equal to the semiannual yield to maturity for United States Treasury securities maturing on the Average Life Date of such Equipment Note and trading in the public securities markets either as determined by interpolation between the most recent weekly average yield to maturity for two series of United States Treasury securities, trading in the public securities
Make-Whole Amount
over
 
markets, (A) one maturing as close as possible to, but earlier than, the Average Life Date of such Equipment Note and (B) the other maturing as close as possible to, but later than, the Average Life Date of such Equipment Note, in each case as published in the most recent H.15(519) or, if a weekly average yield to maturity for United States Treasury securities maturing on the Average Life Date of such Equipment Note is reported in the most recent H.15(519), such weekly average yield to maturity as published in such H.15(519). "H.15(519)" means the weekly statistical release designated as such, or any successor publication, published by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. The date of determination of a Make-Whole Amount shall be the third Business Day prior to the applicable payment or redemption date and the "most recent H.15(519)" means the H.15(519) published prior to the close of business on the third Business Day prior to the applicable payment or redemption date.
          "" means (i) in the case of Series A Equipment Notes, 0.30%, (ii) in the case of Series B Equipment Notes, 0.40%, and (iii) in the case of any Additional Series, the percentage specified in Schedule I hereto (as amended at the time of original issuance of such Additional Series) as the "Make-Whole Spread" for such Additional Series.
Make-Whole Spread
          "" means, with respect to any person, any event, condition or circumstance that materially and adversely affects such person's business or consolidated financial condition, or its ability to observe or perform its obligations, liabilities and agreements under the Operative Agreements.
Material Adverse Change
          "" is defined in Schedule 3 to the Participation Agreement.
Minimum Liability Insurance Amount
          "" is defined in Section 3.03 of the Trust Indenture.
Mortgaged Property
          "" means Wilmington Trust Company, a Delaware banking corporation, not in its individual capacity but solely as mortgagee under the Trust Indenture.
Mortgagee
          "" means any Person other than a United States person, as defined in Section 7701(a)(30) of the Code.
Non-U.S. Person
          "" means at any time each registered holder of one or more Equipment Notes.
Note Holder
          "" means the UCC as in effect on the date of determination in the State of New York.
NY UCC
          "" means, in respect of any party to the Participation Agreement, a certificate signed by the Chairman, any Vice Chairman, the President, any Vice President (including those with varying ranks such as Executive, Senior, Assistant or Staff Vice President), the Treasurer, any Assistant Treasurer, the Controller, the Secretary or any Assistant Secretary of such party.
Officer's Certificate
          "" means, collectively, the Participation Agreement, the Trust Indenture, the initial Trust Indenture Supplement, the Bills of Sale and the Equipment Notes.
Operative Agreements
 
          "" means each of the indentures under which equipment notes have been issued and purchased by the Pass Through Trustees pursuant to the Participation Agreement.
Operative Indentures
          "," with respect to an Equipment Note, means the stated original principal amount of such Equipment Note and, with respect to all Equipment Notes, means the aggregate stated original principal amounts of all Equipment Notes.
Original Amount
          "" means Owner, any lessee, assignee, successor or other user or person in possession of the Aircraft, Airframe or an Engine with or without color of right, or any Affiliate of any of the foregoing (excluding any Tax Indemnitee or any related Tax Indemnitee with respect thereto, or any person using or claiming any rights with respect to the Aircraft, Airframe or an Engine directly by or through any of the persons in this parenthetical).
Owner Person
          "" means the Participation Agreement N259WN, dated as of October 3, 2007, among Owner, the Applicable Pass Through Trustees, the Subordination Agent and Mortgagee.
Participation Agreement
          "" means all appliances, parts, components, instruments, appurtenances, accessories, furnishings, seats and other equipment of whatever nature (other than (a) Engines or engines, and (b) any Removable Part leased by Owner from a third party or subject to a security interest granted to a third party), that may from time to time be installed or incorporated in or attached or appurtenant to the Airframe or any Engine or removed therefrom unless the Lien of the Trust Indenture shall not be applicable thereto in accordance with Section 4.04 of the Trust Indenture.
Parts
          "" means the Pass Through Trust Agreements, the Intercreditor Agreement, the Liquidity Facility and the Fee Letter referred to in Section 2.03 of the Liquidity Facility, provided that no amendment, modification or supplement to, or substitution or replacement of, such Fee Letter shall be effective for purposes of any obligation of Owner, unless consented to by Owner.
Pass Through Agreements
          "" means the pass through certificates issued by the Pass Through Trusts (and any other pass through certificates issued in exchange for or replacement of such pass through certificates).
Pass Through Certificates
          "" means each of the two separate pass through trusts created under the Pass Through Trust Agreements.
Pass Through Trust
          "" means each of the two separate Trust Supplements, together in each case with the Basic Pass Through Trust Agreement, each dated as of the Issuance Date by and between the Owner and a Pass Through Trustee, provided, that, for purposes of any obligation of Owner, no amendment, modification or supplement to, or substitution or replacement of, any such Agreement shall be effective unless consented to by Owner.
Pass Through Trust Agreement
 
          "" means Wilmington Trust Company, a Delaware banking corporation, in its capacity as trustee under each Pass Through Trust Agreement.
Pass Through Trustee
          "" means the Participation Agreement, the Pass Through Trust Agreements and the Intercreditor Agreement.
Pass Through Trustee Agreements
          "" means each February 1 and August 1, commencing on February 1, 2008.
Payment Date
          "" means (a) with respect to (i) any payment made to a Note Holder under any Series of Equipment Notes, the Debt Rate applicable to such Series plus 1% and (ii) any other payment made under any Operative Agreement to any other Person, the Debt Rate applicable to such payment plus 1% or, if less, (b) the maximum rate permitted by applicable law.
Payment Due Rate
          "" means (i) any manufacturer of airframes or aircraft engines, or any Affiliate of a manufacturer of airframes or aircraft engines, (ii) any Permitted Foreign Air Carrier, (iii) any person approved in writing by Mortgagee or (iv) any U.S. Air Carrier.
Permitted Air Carrier
          "" means any country listed on Schedule 4 to the Participation Agreement.
Permitted Country
          "" means any air carrier with its principal executive offices in any Permitted Country and which is authorized to conduct commercial airline operations and to operate jet aircraft similar to the Aircraft under the applicable Laws of such Permitted Country.
Permitted Foreign Air Carrier
          "" means (i) the U.S. Government or (ii) any other Government Entity if the Aircraft is then registered under the laws of the country of such Government Entity.
Permitted Government Entity
          "" means a lease permitted under Section 4.02(b) of the Trust Indenture.
Permitted Lease
          "" means the lessee under a Permitted Lease.
Permitted Lessee
          "" means (a) the rights of Mortgagee under the Operative Agreements, or of any Permitted Lessee under any Permitted Lease; (b) Liens attributable to Mortgagee (both in its capacity as trustee under the Trust Indenture and in its individual capacity); (c) the rights of others under agreements or arrangements to the extent expressly permitted by the terms of Section 4.02(b) or 4.04 of the Trust Indenture; (d) Liens of Taxes of Owner (and its U.S. federal tax law consolidated group), or Liens for Taxes of any Tax Indemnitee (and its U.S. federal tax law consolidated group) for which Owner is obligated to indemnify such Tax Indemnitee under any of the Operative Agreements, in any such case either not yet deliquent or being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings so long as such Liens and such proceedings do not involve any material risk of the sale, forfeiture or loss of the Aircraft, the Airframe, or any Engine or the interest of Mortgagee therein or impair the Lien of
Permitted Lien
 
the Trust Indenture; (e) materialmen's, mechanics', workers', repairers', employees' or other like Liens arising in the ordinary course of business for amounts the payment of which is either not yet delinquent for more than 60 days or is being contested in good faith by appropriate proceedings, so long as such Liens and such proceedings do not involve any material risk of the sale, forfeiture or loss of the Aircraft, the Airframe, or any Engine or the interest of Mortgagee therein or impair the Lien of the Trust Indenture; (f) Liens arising out of any judgment or award against Owner (or any Permitted Lessee), so long as such judgment shall, within 60 days after the entry thereof, have been discharged or vacated, or execution thereof stayed pending appeal or shall have been discharged, vacated or reversed within 60 days after the expiration of such stay, and so long as during any such 60 day period there is not, or any such judgment or award does not involve, any material risk of the sale, forfeiture or loss of the Aircraft, the Airframe, or any Engine or the interest of Mortgagee therein or impair the Lien of the Trust Indenture; (g) salvage or similar rights of insurers under policies required to be maintained by Owner under Section 4.06 of the Trust Indenture; and (h) any other Lien with respect to which Owner (or any Permitted Lessee) shall have provided a bond, cash collateral or other security adequate in the reasonable opinion of Mortgagee.
          "" or "" means individuals, firms, partnerships, joint ventures, trusts, trustees, Government Entities, organizations, associations, corporations, limited liability companies, government agencies, committees, departments, authorities and other bodies, corporate or incorporate, whether having distinct legal status or not, or any member of any of the same.
Persons
persons
          "" means any employee benefit plan within the meaning of Section 3(3) of ERISA, or any plan within the meaning of Section 4975(e)(1) of the Code.
Plan
          "" means the Purchase Agreement No. 1810, dated as of January 19, 1994, between Airframe Manufacturer and Owner, as amended (including all exhibits thereto, together with all letter agreements entered into that by their terms constitute part of such Purchase Agreement), together with, with respect to the Engines, the GTA (as defined in the Engine Consent and Agreement), in each case to the extent included in the Granting Clause (2) of the Trust Indenture.
Purchase Agreement
          "" is defined in Section 2.08 of the Trust Indenture.
QIB
          "" is defined in Section 1.1 of the Intercreditor Agreement.
Ratings Confirmation
          "" means, with respect to any particular series of Additional Series Equipment Notes and as of any date, an "Additional Series Equipment Note", as defined in each Related Indenture, having the same designation (, "Series C", "Series D" or the like) as such series of Additional Series Equipment Notes, but only if as of such date it is held by the "Subordination Agent" under the "Intercreditor Agreement", as such terms are defined in such Related Indenture.
Related Additional Series Equipment Note
i.e.
          "" means, collectively, the "Equipment Notes" as defined in each Related Indenture, but only if as of such date they are held by the "Subordination
Related Equipment Notes
 
Agent" under the "Intercreditor Agreement", as such terms are defined in such Related Indenture.
          "" means an "Indenture Event of Default" as defined in each Related Indenture.
Related Event of Default
          "" means each Indenture Indemnitee under a Related Indenture.
Related Indenture Indemnitee
          "" means each Operative Indenture.
Related Indentures
          "" has the meaning ascribed to the term "Mortgagee" in each Related Indenture.
Related Mortgagee
          "" means a registered holder of a Related Equipment Note.
Related Note Holder
          "" has the meaning ascribed to the term "Operative Agreements" in each of the Related Indentures.
Related Operative Agreements
          "" has the meaning ascribed to the term "Participation Agreement" in each of the Related Indentures.
Related Participation Agreement
          "" means the failure by Owner to pay (i) any amount of principal of or interest on any Related Equipment Note when due or (ii) any Related Secured Obligation (other than principal or interest on the Related Equipment Notes) in excess of $25,000 under any Related Indenture when due.
Related Payment Default
          "" has the meaning ascribed to the term "Secured Obligations" in each Related Indenture.
Related Secured Obligations
          "" means, collectively, the Related Note Holders and Related Indenture Indemnities.
Related Secured Parties
          "" means, as of any date, a "Series A Equipment Note", as defined in each Related Indenture, but only if as of such date it is held by the "Subordination Agent" under the "Intercreditor Agreement", as such terms are defined in such Related Indenture.
Related Series A Equipment Note
          "" means, as of any date, a "Series B Equipment Note", as defined in each Related Indenture, but only if as of such date it is held by the "Subordination Agent" under the "Intercreditor Agreement", as such terms are defined in such Related Indenture.
Related Series B Equipment Note
          "" means a "Special Default" as defined in each Related Indenture.
Related Special Default
          "" is defined in Section 4.04(d) of the Trust Indenture.
Removable Part
 
          "" means any airframe substituted for the Airframe pursuant to Article IV of the Trust Indenture.
Replacement Airframe
          "" means an engine substituted for an Engine pursuant to Article IV of the Trust Indenture.
Replacement Engine
          "" means the Securities and Exchange Commission of the United States, or any Government Entity succeeding to the functions of such Securities and Exchange Commission.
SEC
          "" means 11 U.S.C. Section 1110 of the Bankruptcy Code or any successor or analogous section of the federal bankruptcy law in effect from time to time.
Section 1110
          "" is defined in the initial paragraph of the Granting Clause of the Trust Indenture.
Secured Obligations
          "" is defined in Section 3.07 of the Trust Indenture.
Securities Account
          "" means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.
Securities Act
          "" means a "security" as defined in Section 2(l) of the Securities Act.
Security
          "" means any of Series A, Series B or any Additional Series.
Series
          "" or "" means Equipment Notes issued under the Trust Indenture and designated as "Series A" thereunder, in the Original Amount and maturities and bearing interest as specified in Schedule I to the Trust Indenture under the heading "Series A."
Series A
Series A Equipment Notes
          "" or "" means Equipment Notes issued under the Trust Indenture and designated as "Series B" thereunder, in the Original Amount and maturities and bearing interest as specified in Schedule I to the Trust Indenture under the heading "Series B."
Series B
Series B Equipment Notes
          "" means a Boeing Model 737-700 aircraft.
Similar Aircraft
          "" means (i) the failure by Owner to pay any amount of principal of or interest on any Equipment Note when due or (ii) the occurrence of any Default or Event of Default referred to in Section 5.01(v), (vi) or (vii).
Special Default
          "" means Wilmington Trust Company, as subordination agent under the Intercreditor Agreement, or any successor thereto.
Subordination Agent
          "" means (a) WTC and Mortgagee, (b) each separate or additional trustee appointed pursuant to the Trust Indenture, (c) each Note Holder and (d) the respective successors, assigns, agents and servants of the foregoing.
Tax Indemnitee
 
          "" means all license, recording, documentary, registration and other similar fees and all taxes, levies, imposts, duties, charges, assessments or withholdings of any nature whatsoever imposed by any Taxing Authority, together with any penalties, additions to tax, fines or interest thereon or additions thereto.
Taxes
          "" means any federal, state or local government or other taxing authority in the United States, any foreign government or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof, any international taxing authority or any territory or possession of the United States or any taxing authority thereof.
Taxing Authority
          "" is defined in Schedule 3 to the Participation Agreement.
Threshold Amount
          "" means all costs and expenses incurred by Mortgagee in connection with (a) the preparation, execution and delivery of the Operative Agreements and the recording or filing of any documents, certificates or instruments in accordance with any Operative Agreement, including, without limitation, the FAA Filed Documents and the Financing Statements, (b) the initial fee of Mortgagee under the Trust Indenture and (c) the reasonable fees and disbursements of counsel for each Mortgagee and special counsel in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, in each case, in connection with the Closing.
Transaction Expenses
          "" means the transactions contemplated by the Participation Agreement.
Transactions
          "" means the transfer, sale, assignment or other conveyance (whether directly or indirectly through a transfer of stock, partnership interest or other ownership interest) of all or any interest in any property, right or interest.
Transfer
          "" means a person to which any Note Holder purports or intends to Transfer any or all of its right, title or interest in the Equipment Note, as described in Section 9 of the Participation Agreement.
Transferee
          "" means the Trust Indenture and Mortgage N259WN, dated as of the date of the Participation Agreement between Owner and Mortgagee.
Trust Indenture
          "" means a Trust Indenture and Mortgage Supplement, substantially in the form of Exhibit A to the Trust Indenture, with appropriate modifications to reflect the purpose for which it is being used.
Trust Indenture Supplement
          "" means an agreement supplemental to the Basic Pass Through Trust Agreement pursuant to which (i) a separate trust is created for the benefit of the holders of the Pass Through Certificates of a class, (ii) the issuance of the Pass Through Certificates of such class representing fractional undivided interests in such trust is authorized and (iii) the terms of the Pass Through Certificates of such class are established.
Trust Supplement
          "" means the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in any applicable jurisdiction.
UCC
 
          "" means (i) any Tax imposed on the net income, net worth or capital, any franchise Tax or similar doing business Tax of the Mortgagee, the Subordination Agent or any Pass Through Trustee and (ii) any withholding Tax imposed by the United States (including, without limitation, any withholding Tax imposed by the United States which is imposed or increased as a result of the Mortgagee's, the Subordination Agent's or any Pass Through Trustee's failure to deliver to the Owner any certificate or document necessary to establish that payments under the Operative Agreements are exempt from withholding Tax).
Unindemnified Tax
          "" or "" means the United States of America; provided that for geographic purposes, "United States" means, in aggregate, the 50 states and the District of Columbia of the United States of America.
United States
U.S.
          "" means any United States air carrier that is a Citizen of the United States holding an air carrier operating certificate issued pursuant to chapter 447 of title 49 of the United States Code for aircraft capable of carrying 10 or more individuals or 6000 pounds or more of cargo, and as to which there is in force an air carrier operating certificate issued pursuant to Part 121 of the FAA Regulations, or which may operate as an air carrier by certification or otherwise under any successor or substitute provisions therefor or in the absence thereof.
U.S. Air Carrier
          "" means the federal government of the United States, or any instrumentality or agency thereof the obligations of which are guaranteed by the full faith and credit of the federal government of the United States.
U.S. Government
          "" means any Person described in Section 7701 (a)(30) of the Code.
U.S. Person
          "" means, with respect to any specified Debt, at the time of the determination thereof the number of years obtained by dividing the then Remaining Dollar-years of such Debt by the then outstanding principal amount of such Debt. The term "Remaining Dollar-years" shall mean the amount obtained by (1) multiplying the amount of each then-remaining principal payment on such Debt by the number of years (calculated at the nearest one-twelfth) that will elapse between the date of determination of the Weighted Average Life to Maturity of such Debt and the date of that required payment and (2) totaling all the products obtained in clause (1) above.
Weighted Average Life to Maturity
          "" means any arrangement whereby Owner or a Permitted Lessee agrees to furnish the Aircraft, Airframe or any Engine to a third party pursuant to which the Aircraft, Airframe or Engine shall at all times be in the operational control of Owner or a Permitted Lessee, provided that Owner's obligations under the Trust Indenture shall continue in full force and effect notwithstanding any such arrangement.
Wet Lease
          "" means Wilmington Trust Company, a Delaware banking corporation, not in its capacity as Mortgagee under the Trust Indenture, but in its individual capacity.
WTC
 
     Capitalized terms used but not defined herein shall have the respective meanings set forth or incorporated by reference in Annex A to the Trust Indenture.
A. Liability Insurance
     1. Except as provided in Section A.2 below, Owner will carry or cause to be carried at all times, at no expense to Mortgagee, comprehensive airline legal liability (including, but not limited to passenger liability, property damage, baggage liability, cargo and mail liability, hangarkeeper's liability and contractual liability insurance, but excluding manufacturer's product liability coverage) with respect to the Aircraft, the Airframe and the Engines, which is (i) in an amount not less than the greater of (x) the amount of comprehensive airline legal liability insurance from time to time applicable to aircraft owned or leased and operated by Owner of the same type and operating on similar routes as the Aircraft and (y) the Minimum Liability Insurance Amount per occurrence; (ii) of the type and covering the same risks as from time to time applicable to aircraft operated by Owner of the same type as the Aircraft; and (iii) maintained in effect with insurers of nationally or internationally recognized responsibility (such insurers being referred to herein as "Approved Insurers").
     2. During any period that the Aircraft is on the ground and not in operation, Owner may carry or cause to be carried, in lieu of the insurance required by Section A.1 above, insurance otherwise conforming with the provisions of said Section A.1 except that (i) the amounts of coverage shall not be required to exceed the amounts of public liability and property damage insurance from time to time applicable to aircraft owned or operated by Owner of the same type as the Aircraft which are on the ground and not in operation and (ii) the scope of the risks covered and the type of insurance shall be the same as from time to time shall be applicable to aircraft owned or operated by Owner of the same type which are on the ground and not in operation.
B. Hull Insurance
     1. Except as provided in Section B.2 below, Owner will carry or cause to be carried at all times, at no expense to Mortgagee, with Approved Insurers "all-risk" ground and flight aircraft hull insurance covering each Aircraft (including the Engines when they are installed on the Airframe or any other airframe) which is of the type as from time to time applicable to aircraft owned by Owner of the same type as the Aircraft for an amount denominated in United States Dollars not less than the unpaid Original Amount together with six months of interest accrued thereon (the "Debt Balance").
     Any policies of insurance carried in accordance with this Section B.1 or Section C covering the Aircraft and any policies taken out in substitution or replacement for any such policies (i) shall name Mortgagee as exclusive loss payee for any proceeds to be paid under such policies up to an amount equal to the Debt Balance and (ii) shall provide that (A) in the event of a loss involving proceeds in excess of the Threshold Amount, the proceeds in respect of such
 
loss up to an amount equal to the Debt Balance shall be payable to the Mortgagee, except in the case of a loss with respect to an Engine installed on an airframe other than the Airframe, in which case Owner (or any Permitted Lessee) shall endeavor to arrange for any payment of insurance proceeds in respect of such loss to be held for the account of the Mortgagee whether such payment is made to Owner (or any Permitted Lessee) or any third party, it being understood and agreed that in the case of any payment to Mortgagee otherwise than in respect of an Event of Loss, the Mortgagee shall, upon receipt of evidence satisfactory to it that the damage giving rise to such payment shall have been repaired or that such payment shall then be required to pay for repairs then being made, pay the amount of such payment to Owner or its order, and (B) the entire amount of any loss involving proceeds of the Threshold Amount or less or the amount of any proceeds of any loss in excess of the Debt Balance shall be paid to Owner or its order unless an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing and the insurers have been notified thereof by the Mortgagee. In the case of a loss with respect to an engine (other than an Engine) installed on the Airframe, Mortgagee shall hold any payment to it of any insurance proceeds in respect of such loss for the account of Owner or any other third party that is entitled to receive such proceeds.
     2. During any period that the Aircraft is on the ground and not in operation, Owner may carry or cause to be carried, in lieu of the insurance required by Section B.1 above, insurance otherwise conforming with the provisions of said Section B.1 except that the scope of the risks and the type of insurance shall be the same as from time to time applicable to aircraft owned by Owner of the same type similarly on the ground and not in operation, that Owner shall maintain insurance against risk of loss or damage to the Aircraft in an amount equal to the Debt Balance during such period that the Aircraft is on the ground and not in operation.
provided
C. War-Risk, Hijacking and Allied Perils Insurance
     If Owner (or any Permitted Lessee) shall at any time operate or propose to operate the Aircraft, Airframe or any Engine (i) in any area of recognized hostilities or (ii) on international routes and war-risk, hijacking or allied perils insurance is maintained by Owner (or any Permitted Lessee) with respect to other aircraft owned or operated by Owner (or any Permitted Lessee) on such routes or in such areas, Owner shall maintain or cause to be maintained war-risk, hijacking and related perils insurance of substantially the same type carried by major United States commercial air carriers operating the same or comparable models of aircraft on similar routes or in such areas and in no event in an amount less than the unpaid Original Amount.
D. General Provisions
     Any policies of insurance carried in accordance with Sections A, B and C, including any policies taken out in substitution or replacement for such policies:
     (i) in the case of Section A, shall name Mortgagee, each Note Holder, each Related Mortgagee, each Related Note Holder and the Liquidity Provider as an additional insured (collectively, the "Additional Insureds"), as its interests may appear;
     (ii) shall apply worldwide and have no territorial restrictions or limitations (except only in the case of war, hijacking and related perils insurance required under
 
Section C, which shall apply to the fullest extent available in the international insurance market);
     (iii) shall provide that, in respect of the interests of the Additional Insureds in such policies, the insurance shall not be invalidated or impaired by any act or omission (including misrepresentation and nondisclosure) by Owner (or any Permitted Lessee) or any other Person (including, without limitation, use for illegal purposes of the Aircraft or any Engine) and shall insure the Additional Insureds regardless of any breach or violation of any representation, warranty, declaration, term or condition contained in such policies by Owner (or any Permitted Lessee);
     (iv) shall provide that, if the insurers cancel such insurance for any reason whatsoever, or if the same is allowed to lapse for nonpayment of premium, or if any material change is made in the insurance which adversely affects the interest of any of the Additional Insureds, such cancellation, lapse or change shall not be effective as to the Additional Insureds for 30 (seven days in the case of war risk, hijacking and allied perils insurance) days after receipt by the Additional Insureds of written notice by such insurers of such cancellation, lapse or change, that if any notice period specified above is not reasonably obtainable, such policies shall provide for as long a period of prior notice as shall then be reasonably obtainable;
provided
     (v) shall waive any rights of setoff (including for unpaid premiums), recoupment, counterclaim or other deduction, whether by attachment or otherwise, against each Additional Insured;
     (vi) shall be primary without right of contribution from any other insurance that may be available to any Additional Insured;
     (vii) shall provide that all of the liability insurance provisions thereof, except the limits of liability and agreed value, shall operate in all respects as if a separate policy had been issued covering each party insured thereunder;
     (viii) shall provide that none of the Additional Insureds shall be liable for any insurance premium; and
     (ix) shall contain a 50/50% Clause per Lloyd's Aviation Underwriters' Association Standard Policy Form AVS 103.
E. Reports and Certificates; Other Information
     On or prior to the Closing Date and on or prior to each renewal date of the insurance policies required hereunder, Owner will furnish or cause to be furnished to Mortgagee insurance certificates describing in reasonable detail the insurance maintained by Owner hereunder and a report, signed by Owner's regularly retained independent insurance broker (the "Insurance Broker"), stating the opinion of such Insurance Broker that (a) all premiums in connection with the insurance then due have been paid and (b) such insurance complies with the terms of this Annex B, except that such opinion shall not be required with respect to war risk insurance
 
provided by the FAA. To the extent such agreement is reasonably obtainable Owner will also cause the Insurance Broker to agree to advise Mortgagee in writing of any default in the payment of any premium and of any other act or omission on the part of Owner of which it has knowledge and which might invalidate or render unenforceable, in whole or in part, any insurance on the Aircraft or Engines or cause the cancellation or termination of such insurance, and to advise Mortgagee in writing at least 30 days (seven days in the case of war-risk and allied perils coverage or such shorter period as may be available in the international insurance market, as the case may be) prior to the cancellation, lapse or material adverse change of any insurance maintained pursuant to this Annex B.
F. Right to Pay Premiums
     The Additional Insureds shall have the rights but not the obligations of an additional named insured. None of Mortgagee and the other Additional Insured shall have any obligation to pay any premium, commission, assessment or call due on any such insurance (including reinsurance). Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event of cancellation of any insurance due to the nonpayment of premiums, Mortgagee shall have the option, in its sole discretion, to pay any such premium in respect of the Aircraft that is due in respect of the coverage pursuant to this Trust Indenture and to maintain such coverage, as Mortgagee may require, until the scheduled expiry date of such insurance and, in such event, Owner shall, upon demand, reimburse Mortgagee for amounts so paid by them.
G. Deductibles; Self-insurance
     Owner may self-insure with respect to the Aircraft to the same extent as it does with respect to, or maintain policies with deductibles or premium adjustment provisions consistent with similar provisions applicable to, other comparable aircraft operated by Owner; , , that if at any time Owner's unsecured senior long-term debt securities are not rated "Investment Grade", such self-insurance shall in no case be in amounts greater than that amount of self-insurance carried by airlines similarly situated with Owner and operating aircraft similar to the Aircraft on similar routes; and that, in the case of public liability insurance, such self-insurance shall in no event exceed $50,000,000. The term "Investment Grade" means a rating of "Baa3" or higher from Moody's or a rating from any other nationally recognized bond rating service equivalent to or better than such a rating.
provided
however
provided
further
 
EXHIBIT A TO TRUST INDENTURE AND MORTGAGE
          This TRUST INDENTURE AND MORTGAGE SUPPLEMENT NO. , dated [ , ] (herein called this "Trust Indenture Supplement") of SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO., as Owner (the "Owner").
     
                    
     
          
          WHEREAS, the Trust Indenture and Mortgage N259WN, dated as of October 3, 2007, (as amended and supplemented, the "Trust Indenture") between the Owner and Wilmington Trust Company, as Mortgagee (the "Mortgagee"), provides for the execution and delivery of a supplement thereto substantially in the form hereof, which shall particularly describe the Aircraft, and shall specifically mortgage such Aircraft to the Mortgagee; and
          WHEREAS, the Trust Indenture relates to the Airframe and Engines described below, and a counterpart of the Trust Indenture is attached hereto and made a part hereof and this Trust Indenture Supplement, together with such counterpart of the Trust Indenture, is being filed for recordation on the date hereof with the FAA as one document;
          NOW, THEREFORE, this Trust Indenture Supplement WITNESSETH that the Owner hereby confirms that the Lien of the Trust Indenture on the Collateral covers all of Owner's right, title and interest in and to the following described property and that it hereby grants to the Security Trustee an "International Interest" (as defined in the Cape Town Convention on International Interests in Mobile Equipment and related Aircraft Equipment Protocol, as in effect in the United States) in the following airframe and engines:
One airframe identified as follows:
          Two aircraft engines, each such engine being a jet propulsion aircraft engine with at least 1750 lb of thrust or its equivalent, identified as follows:
 
          Together with all of Owner's right, title and interest in and to (a) all Parts of whatever nature, which from time to time are included within the definition of "Airframe" or "Engine", whether now owned or hereafter acquired, including all substitutions, renewals and replacements of and additions, improvements, accessions and accumulations to the Airframe and Engines (other than additions, improvements, accessions and accumulations which constitute appliances, parts, instruments, appurtenances, accessories, furnishings or other equipment excluded from the definition of Parts) and (b) all Aircraft Documents.
          TO HAVE AND TO HOLD all and singular the aforesaid property unto the Mortgagee, its successors and assigns, in trust for the equal and proportionate benefit and security of the Note Holders, the Related Secured Parties and the Indenture Indemnitees, except as provided in Section 2.13 and Article III of the Trust Indenture without any preference, distinction or priority of any one Equipment Note over any other, or any Related Equipment Note over any other, by reason of priority of time of issue, sale, negotiation, date of maturity thereof or otherwise for any reason whatsoever, and for the uses and purposes and subject to the terms and provisions set forth in the Trust Indenture.
          This Trust Indenture Supplement shall be construed as supplemental to the Trust Indenture and shall form a part thereof. The Trust Indenture is each hereby incorporated by reference herein and is hereby ratified, approved and confirmed.
          AND, FURTHER, the Owner hereby acknowledges that the Aircraft referred to in this Trust Indenture Supplement has been delivered to the Owner and is included in the property of the Owner subject to the pledge and mortgage thereof under the Trust Indenture.
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the Owner has caused this Trust Indenture Supplement to be duly executed by one of its officers, thereunto duly authorized, on the day and year first above written.
 
Trust Indenture and Mortgage (N259WN)
 
Trust Indenture and Mortgage (N259WN)
SERIES A
 
SERIES B

 
Exhibit 4.10
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
SCHEDULES AND EXHIBITS
 
          PARTICIPATION AGREEMENT N259WN, dated as of October 3, 2007 (this "Agreement"), among (a) SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO., a Texas corporation ("Owner"), (b) WILMINGTON TRUST COMPANY, a Delaware banking corporation, not in its individual capacity, except as expressly provided herein, but solely as Mortgagee (in its capacity as Mortgagee, "Mortgagee" and in its individual capacity, "WTC"), (c) WILMINGTON TRUST COMPANY, not in its individual capacity, except as expressly provided herein, but solely as Pass Through Trustee under each of the Applicable Pass Through Trust Agreements (each, an "Applicable Pass Through Trustee") and (d) WILMINGTON TRUST COMPANY, not in its individual capacity, except as expressly provided herein, but solely as Subordination Agent under the Intercreditor Agreement ("Subordination Agent").
          A. Owner is the owner of the Aircraft.
          B. Owner and each Applicable Pass Through Trustee, concurrently with the execution and delivery hereof, have entered into the Pass Through Trust Agreements, and on the Closing Date, the Pass Through Trusts will be created and the Pass Through Certificates will be issued and sold.
          C. Each Applicable Pass Through Trustee has agreed to use a portion of the proceeds from the issuance and sale of the Pass Through Certificates issued by each Applicable Pass Through Trust to purchase from Owner, on behalf of the related Applicable Pass Through Trust, the Equipment Note bearing the same interest rate as the Pass Through Certificates issued by such Pass Through Trust.
          D. Owner and Mortgagee, concurrently with the execution and delivery hereof, have entered into the Trust Indenture for the benefit of the Note Holders, pursuant to which, among other things, Owner agrees (1) to issue Equipment Notes, in the amounts and otherwise as provided in the Trust Indenture, and (2) to mortgage, pledge and assign to Mortgagee all of Owner's right, title and interest in the Collateral to secure the Secured Obligations, including, without limitation, Owner's obligations under the Equipment Notes.
          E. The parties hereto wish to set forth in this Agreement the terms and conditions upon and subject to which the aforesaid transactions shall be effected.
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the premises and the mutual agreements contained herein and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
SECTION 1. DEFINITIONS AND CONSTRUCTION
          Capitalized terms used but not defined herein (including in the initial paragraph and Recitals above) shall have the respective meanings set forth or incorporated by reference, and shall be construed and interpreted in the manner described, in Annex A to the Trust Indenture.
 
SECTION 2. SECURED LOANS; CLOSING
          
2.1 Making of Loans and Issuance of Equipment Notes
          Subject to the terms and conditions of this Agreement, on the date hereof or on such other date agreed to by the parties hereto (the "Closing Date"):
          In addition, the Owner shall have the option on or after the Closing Date to redeem and reissue Series B Equipment Notes and to issue from time to time Additional Series Equipment Notes, subject to the terms of the Intercreditor Agreement. If Series B or Additional Series Equipment Notes are so reissued or issued after the Closing Date, the Note Holder of such Equipment Notes shall be entitled to execute a counterpart to this Agreement and become a party hereto.
          
2.2 Closing
          (a) The Closing of the transactions contemplated hereby shall take place at the offices of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy LLP, One Chase Manhattan Plaza, New York, New York 10005, or at such other place as the parties shall agree.
          (b) All payments pursuant to this Section 2 shall be made in immediately available funds to such accounts set forth in Schedule 1 hereto.
SECTION 3. [INTENTIONALLY OMITTED]
SECTION 4. CONDITIONS PRECEDENT
          
4.1 Conditions Precedent to the Obligations of the Pass Through Trustees
          The obligation of each Applicable Pass Through Trustee listed on Schedule 2 to make the secured loan described in Section 2.1(a) and to participate in the transactions contemplated by this Agreement on the Closing Date is subject to the satisfaction or waiver by each Applicable Pass Through Trustee, on or prior to the Closing Date, of the conditions precedent set forth below in the Section 4.1:
 
     
4.1.1 Equipment Notes
          The Owner shall have tendered the Equipment Notes to be issued to such Applicable Pass Through Trustees to the Mortgagee for authentication and the Mortgagee shall have authenticated such Equipment Notes to be issued to such Applicable Pass Through Trustees and shall have tendered the Equipment Notes to the Subordination Agent on behalf of such Applicable Pass Through Trustees, against receipt of the loan proceeds, in accordance with Section 2.1.
     
4.1.2 Delivery of Documents
          The Subordination Agent on behalf of each such Applicable Pass Through Trustee shall have received executed counterparts or conformed copies of the following documents:
 
     
4.1.3 Perfected Security Interest
          On the Closing Date, after giving effect to the filing of the FAA Filed Documents, the Financing Statements and the registration of the International Interest of the Mortgagee in the Airframe and each Engine with the International Registry, Mortgagee shall have received a duly perfected first priority security interest in all of Owner's right, title and interest in the Aircraft, subject only to Permitted Liens.
     
4.1.4 Violation of Law
          No change shall have occurred after the date of this Agreement in any applicable Law that makes it a violation of Law for (a) Owner, any Applicable Pass Through Trustee, Subordination Agent or Mortgagee to execute, deliver and perform the Operative Agreements to which any of them is a party or (b) any Applicable Pass Through Trustee to make the loan contemplated by Section 2.1, to acquire an Equipment Note or to realize the benefits of the security afforded by the Trust Indenture.
     
4.1.5 Representations, Warranties and Covenants
          The representations and warranties of each other party to this Agreement made, in each case, in this Agreement and in any other Operative Agreement to which it is a party, shall be true and accurate in all material respects as of the Closing Date (unless any such representation and warranty shall have been made with reference to a specified date, in which case such representation and warranty shall be true and accurate as of such specified date) and each other party to this Agreement shall have performed and observed, in all material respects, all of its covenants, obligations and agreements in this Agreement and in any other Operative Agreement to which it is a party to be observed or performed by it as of the Closing Date.
     
4.1.6 No Event of Default
          On the Closing Date, no event shall have occurred and be continuing, or would result from the mortgage of the Aircraft, which constitutes a Default or an Event of Default.
 
     
4.1.7 No Event of Loss
          No Event of Loss with respect to the Airframe or any Engine shall have occurred and no circumstance, condition, act or event that, with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both, would give rise to or constitute an Event of Loss with respect to the Airframe or any Engine shall have occurred.
     
4.1.8 Title
          Owner shall have good title to the Aircraft, free and clear of all Liens, except Permitted Liens.
     
4.1.9 Certification
          The Aircraft shall have been duly certificated by the FAA as to type and airworthiness in accordance with the terms of the Purchase Agreement.
     
4.1.10 Section 1110
          Mortgagee shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 1110 (as currently in effect) with respect to the right to take possession of the Airframe and Engines and to enforce any of its other rights or remedies as provided in the Trust Indenture in the event of a case under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in which Owner is a debtor.
     
4.1.11 Filing
          On the Closing Date (a) the FAA Filed Documents shall have been duly filed for recordation (or shall be in the process of being so duly filed for recordation) with the FAA in accordance with the Act, (b) the International Interest of the Mortgagee in the Airframe and each Engine granted under the Trust Indenture shall have been registered with the International Registry and there shall exist no registered International Interest with respect to the Airframe or either Engine on the International Registry and (c) each Financing Statement shall have been duly filed (or shall be in the process of being so duly filed) in the appropriate jurisdiction.
     
4.1.12 No Proceedings
          No action or proceeding shall have been instituted, nor shall any action be threatened in writing, before any Government Entity, nor shall any order, judgment or decree have been issued or proposed to be issued by any Government Entity, to set aside, restrain, enjoin or prevent the completion and consummation of this Agreement or any other Operative Agreement or the transactions contemplated hereby or thereby.
     
4.1.13 Governmental Action
          All appropriate action required to have been taken prior to the Closing Date by the FAA, or any governmental or political agency, subdivision or instrumentality of the United States, in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall have been taken, and all orders, permits, waivers, authorizations, exemptions and approvals of such entities
 
required to be in effect on the Closing Date in connection with the transactions contemplated by this Agreement shall have been issued.
     
4.1.14 Pass Through Trust Agreements and Underwriting Agreement
          The Applicable Pass Through Trustees shall have received duly authorized and validly executed counterparts or conformed copies of the Applicable Pass Through Agreements and the Underwriting Agreement in form and substance satisfactory to the Applicable Pass Through Trustees and all such documents shall be in full force and effect and the conditions precedent to the obligations of the Underwriters and the other requirements relating to the sale of the Certificates set forth in the Underwriting Agreement (as defined in the Intercreditor Agreement) shall have been satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms thereof.
     
4.1.15 Other Aircraft
          The conditions precedent to the obligations of the Applicable Pass Through Trustees under each of the other "Participation Agreements" (as defined in the Intercreditor Agreement) set forth in such other "Participation Agreements" shall have been satisfied or waived in accordance with the terms thereof and the "Closing" as defined therein shall have occurred contemporaneously with the Closing hereunder.
          
4.2 Conditions Precedent to Obligations of Mortgagee
          The obligation of Mortgagee to authenticate the Equipment Notes on the Closing Date is subject to the satisfaction or waiver by Mortgagee, on or prior to the Closing Date, of the conditions precedent set forth below in this Section 4.2.
     
4.2.1 Delivery of Documents
          Executed originals of the agreements, instruments, certificates or documents described in Section 4.1.2 shall have been received by Mortgagee, except as specifically provided therein, unless the failure to receive any such agreement, instrument, certificate or document is the result of any action or inaction by Mortgagee.
     
4.2.2 Other Conditions Precedent
          Each of the conditions set forth in Sections 4.1.4, 4.1.5, 4.1.6 and 4.1.10 shall have been satisfied unless the failure of any such condition to be satisfied is the result of any action or inaction by Mortgagee.
          
4.3 Conditions Precedent to Obligations of Owner
          The obligation of Owner to participate in the transaction contemplated hereby on the Closing Date is subject to the satisfaction or waiver by Owner, on or prior to the Closing Date, of the conditions precedent set forth below in this Section 4.3.
 
     
4.3.1 Delivery of Documents
          Executed originals of the agreements, instruments, certificates or documents described in Section 4.1.2 shall have been received by Owner, except as specifically provided therein, and shall be satisfactory to Owner, unless the failure to receive any such agreement, instrument, certificate or document is the result of any action or inaction by Owner. In addition, the Owner shall have received the following:
     
4.3.2 Other Conditions Precedent
          Each of the conditions set forth in Sections 4.1.4, 4.1.5, 4.1.6, 4.1.7, 4.1.8, 4.1.9, 4.1.10, 4.1.11, 4.1.12 and 4.1.13 shall have been satisfied or waived by Owner, unless the failure of any such condition to be satisfied is the result of any action or inaction by Owner.
          
4.4 Post-Recordation Opinion
          Promptly upon the recordation of the FAA Filed Documents pursuant to the Act, Owner will request DeBee Gilchrist, P.C., special counsel in Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, to deliver to Owner, each Pass Through Trustee and Mortgagee a favorable opinion or opinions addressed to each of them with respect to such recordation.
SECTION 5. REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES
          
5.1 Owner's Representations and Warranties
          Owner represents and warrants to each Applicable Pass Through Trustee, Subordination Agent and Mortgagee that:
 
     
5.1.1 Organization; Qualification
          Owner is a corporation duly incorporated, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of the State of Texas and has the corporate power and authority to conduct the business in which it is currently engaged and to own or hold under lease its properties and to enter into and perform its obligations under the Operative Agreements to which it is party. Owner is duly qualified to do business as a foreign corporation in good standing in each jurisdiction in which the nature and extent of the business conducted by it, or the ownership of its properties, requires such qualification, except where the failure to be so qualified would not give rise to a Material Adverse Change to Owner.
     
5.1.2 Corporate Authorization
          Owner has taken, or caused to be taken, all necessary corporate action (including, without limitation, the obtaining of any consent or approval of stockholders required by its articles of incorporation or by-laws) to authorize the execution and delivery of each of the Operative Agreements to which it is party, and the performance of its obligations thereunder.
     
5.1.3 No Violation
          The execution and delivery by Owner of the Operative Agreements to which it is party, the performance by Owner of its obligations thereunder and the consummation by Owner on the Closing Date of the transactions contemplated thereby, do not and will not (a) violate any provision of the articles of incorporation or by-laws of Owner, (b) violate any Law applicable to or binding on Owner or (c) violate or constitute any default under (other than any violation or default that would not result in a Material Adverse Change to Owner), or result in the creation of any Lien (other than Permitted Liens) upon the Aircraft under, any indenture, mortgage, chattel mortgage, deed of trust, conditional sales contract, lease, loan or other material agreement, instrument or document to which Owner is a party or by which Owner or any of its properties is bound.
     
5.1.4 Approvals
          The execution and delivery by Owner of the Operative Agreements to which Owner is a party, the performance by Owner of its obligations thereunder and the consummation by Owner on the Closing Date of the transactions contemplated thereby do not and will not require the consent or approval of, or the giving of notice to, or the registration with, or the recording or filing of any documents with, or the taking of any other action in respect of, (a) any trustee or other holder of any Debt of Owner and (b) any Government Entity, other than the filing of (x) the FAA Filed Documents and the Financing Statements (and continuation statements periodically), (y) the registration of the International Interest of the Mortgagee in the Airframe and Engines with the International Registry and (z) filings, recordings, notices or other ministerial actions pursuant to any routine recording, contractual or regulatory requirements applicable to it.
 
     
5.1.5 Valid and Binding Agreements
          The Operative Agreements to which Owner is a party have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by Owner and, assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery thereof by the other party or parties thereto, constitute the legal, valid and binding obligations of Owner and are enforceable against Owner in accordance with the respective terms thereof, except as such enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, receivership, moratorium and other similar Laws affecting the rights of creditors generally and general principles of equity, whether considered in a proceeding at law or in equity.
     
5.1.6 Registration and Recordation
          Except for (a) the filing for recordation (and recordation) of the FAA Filed Documents, (b) the registration of the International Interest of the Mortgagee in the Airframe and Engines with the International Registry, (c) the filing of the Financing Statements (and continuation statements relating thereto at periodic intervals), and (d) the affixation of the nameplates referred to in Section 4.02(f) of the Trust Indenture, no further action, including any filing or recording of any document (including any financing statement in respect thereof under Article 9 of the UCC) is necessary in order to establish and perfect Mortgagee's security interest in the Aircraft as against Owner and any other Person, in each case, in any applicable jurisdictions in the United States.
     
5.1.7 Owner's Location
          The Owner's location (as such term is used in Section 9-307 of the UCC) is Texas. The full and correct legal name and mailing address of Owner are correctly set forth in Schedule 1 hereto in the column "Address for Notices".
     
5.1.8 No Event of Loss
          No Event of Loss has occurred with respect to the Airframe or any Engine, and, to the Actual Knowledge of Owner, no circumstance, condition, act or event has occurred that, with the giving of notice or lapse of time or both gives rise to or constitutes an Event of Loss with respect to the Airframe or any Engine.
     
5.1.9 Compliance With Laws
          (a) Owner is a Citizen of the United States and a U.S. Air Carrier.
          (b) Owner holds all licenses, permits and franchises from the appropriate Government Entities necessary to authorize Owner to lawfully engage in air transportation and to carry on scheduled commercial passenger service as currently conducted, except where the failure to so hold any such license, permit or franchise would not give rise to a Material Adverse Change to Owner.
          (c) Owner is not an "investment company" or a company controlled by an "investment company" within the meaning of the Investment Company Act of 1940, as amended.
 
     
5.1.10 Securities Laws
          Neither Owner nor any person authorized to act on its behalf has directly or indirectly offered any beneficial interest or Security relating to the ownership of the Aircraft, or any of the Equipment Notes or any other interest in or security under the Trust Indenture, for sale to, or solicited any offer to acquire any such interest or security from, or has sold any such interest or security to, any person in violation of the Securities Act.
     
5.1.11 Broker's Fees
          No Person acting on behalf of Owner is or will be entitled to any broker's fee, commission or finder's fee in connection with the Transactions, other than the fees and expenses payable by Owner in connection with the sale of the Pass Through Certificates.
     
5.1.12 Section 1110
          Mortgagee is entitled to the benefits of Section 1110 (as currently in effect) with respect to the right to take possession of the Airframe and Engines and to enforce any of its other rights or remedies as provided in the Trust Indenture in the event of a case under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in which Owner is a debtor.
     
5.1.13 Cape Town
          The Owner is a Transacting User Entity; is "situated", for the purposes of the Cape Town Treaty, in the United States; and has the power to "dispose" (as such term is used in the Cape Town Treaty) of the Airframe and each Engine. The Trust Indenture, as supplemented by the Trust Indenture Supplement in which the Airframe and Engines are listed, creates an International Interest in such Airframe and Engines. The Airframe and each Engine are "aircraft objects" (as defined in the Cape Town Treaty); and the United States is a Contracting State under the Cape Town Treaty.
          
5.2 WTC's Representations and Warranties
          WTC represents and warrants (with respect to Section 5.2.10, solely in its capacity as Subordination Agent) to Owner that:
     
5.2.1 Organization, Etc.
          WTC is a Delaware banking corporation duly organized, validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of the State of Delaware, holding a valid certificate to do business as a Delaware banking corporation with banking authority to execute and deliver, and perform its obligations under, the Applicable Pass Through Trustee Agreements and the Operative Agreements to which it is a party.
     
5.2.2 Corporate Authorization
          WTC has taken, or caused to be taken, all necessary corporate action (including, without limitation, the obtaining of any consent or approval of stockholders required by Law or
 
by its Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws) to authorize the execution and delivery by WTC, in its individual capacity or as Mortgagee, a Pass Through Trustee or Subordination Agent, as the case may be, of the Pass Through Trustee Agreements and the Operative Agreements to which it is a party and the performance of its obligations thereunder.
     
5.2.3 No Violation
          The execution and delivery by WTC, in its individual capacity or as Mortgagee, a Pass Through Trustee or Subordination Agent, as the case may be, of the Pass Through Trustee Agreements and the Operative Agreements to which it is a party, the performance by WTC, in its individual capacity or as Mortgagee, a Pass Through Trustee or Subordination Agent, as the case may be, of its obligations thereunder and the consummation on the Closing Date of the transactions contemplated thereby, do not and will not (a) violate any provision of the Certificate of Incorporation or By-Laws of WTC, (b) violate any Law applicable to or binding on WTC, in its individual capacity or (except in the case of any Law relating to any Plan) as Mortgagee, a Pass Through Trustee or Subordination Agent, or (c) violate or constitute any default under (other than any violation or default that would not result in a Material Adverse Change to WTC, in its individual capacity or Mortgagee, a Pass Through Trustee or Subordination Agent), or result in the creation of any Lien (other than the Lien of the Trust Indenture) upon any property of WTC, in its individual capacity or as Mortgagee, a Pass Through Trustee or Subordination Agent, or any of WTC's subsidiaries under, any indenture, mortgage, chattel mortgage, deed of trust, conditional sales contract, lease, loan or other agreement, instrument or document to which WTC, in its individual capacity or as Mortgagee, a Pass Through Trustee or Subordination Agent, is a party or by which WTC, in its individual capacity or as Mortgagee, a Pass Through Trustee or Subordination Agent, or any of their respective properties is bound.
     
5.2.4 Approvals
          The execution and delivery by WTC, in its individual capacity or as Mortgagee, a Pass Through Trustee or Subordination Agent, as the case may be, of the Pass Through Trustee Agreements and the Operative Agreements to which it is a party, the performance by WTC, in its individual capacity or as Mortgagee, a Pass Through Trustee or Subordination Agent, as the case may be, of its obligations thereunder and the consummation on the Closing Date by WTC, in its individual capacity or as Mortgagee, a Pass Through Trustee or Subordination Agent, as the case may be, of the transactions contemplated thereby do not and will not require the consent, approval or authorization of, or the giving of notice to, or the registration with, or the recording or filing of any documents with, or the taking of any other action in respect of, (a) any trustee or other holder of any Debt of WTC or (b) any Government Entity, other than the filing of the FAA Filed Documents and the Financing Statements.
     
5.2.5 Valid and Binding Agreements
          The Pass Through Trustee Agreements and the Operative Agreements to which it is a party have been duly authorized, executed and delivered by WTC and, assuming the due authorization, execution and delivery by the other party or parties thereto, constitute the legal, valid and binding obligations of WTC, in its individual capacity or as Mortgagee, a Pass Through Trustee or Subordination Agent, as the case may be, and are enforceable against WTC,
 
in its individual capacity or as Mortgagee, a Pass Through Trustee or Subordination Agent, as the case may be, in accordance with the respective terms thereof, except as such enforceability may be limited by bankruptcy, insolvency, reorganization, receivership, moratorium or other similar Laws affecting the rights of creditors generally and general principles of equity, whether considered in a proceeding at law or in equity.
     
5.2.6 Citizenship
          WTC is a Citizen of the United States.
     
5.2.7 No Liens
          On the Closing Date, there are no Liens attributable to WTC in respect of all or any part of the Collateral.
     
5.2.8 Litigation
          There are no pending or, to the Actual Knowledge of WTC, threatened actions or proceedings against WTC, in its individual capacity or as Mortgagee, a Pass Through Trustee or Subordination Agent, before any court, administrative agency or tribunal which, if determined adversely to WTC, in its individual capacity or as Mortgagee, a Pass Through Trustee or Subordination Agent, as the case may be, would materially adversely affect the ability of WTC, in its individual capacity or as Mortgagee, a Pass Through Trustee or Subordination Agent, as the case may be, to perform its obligations under any of the Mortgagee Agreements, the Pass Through Trustee Agreements or the Subordination Agent Agreements.
     
5.2.9 Securities Laws
          Neither WTC nor any person authorized to act on its behalf has directly or indirectly offered any beneficial interest or Security relating to the ownership of the Aircraft or any interest in the Collateral or any of the Equipment Notes or any other interest in or security under the Collateral for sale to, or solicited any offer to acquire any such interest or security from, or has sold any such interest or security to, any Person other than the Subordination Agent and the Pass Through Trustees, except for the offering and sale of the Pass Through Certificates.
     
5.2.10 Investment
          The Equipment Notes to be acquired by the Subordination Agent are being acquired by it for the account of the Applicable Pass Through Trustees, for investment and not with a view to any resale or distribution thereof, except that, subject to the restrictions on transfer set forth in Section 9, the disposition by it of its Equipment Notes shall at all times be within its control.
     
5.2.11 Taxes
          There are no Taxes payable by any Applicable Pass Through Trustee or WTC, as the case may be, imposed by the State of Delaware or any political subdivision or taxing authority thereof in connection with the execution, delivery and performance by such Pass
 
Through Trustee or WTC, as the case may be, of this Agreement or any of the Pass Through Trustee Agreements (other than franchise or other taxes based on or measured by any fees or compensation received by any such Pass Through Trustee or WTC, as the case may be, for services rendered in connection with the transactions contemplated by any of the Pass Through Trust Agreements), and there are no Taxes payable by any Applicable Pass Through Trustee or WTC, as the case may be, imposed by the State of Delaware or any political subdivision thereof in connection with the acquisition, possession or ownership by any such Pass Through Trustee of any of the Equipment Notes (other than franchise or other taxes based on or measured by any fees or compensation received by any such Pass Through Trustee or WTC, as the case may be, for services rendered in connection with the transactions contemplated by any of the Pass Through Trust Agreements), and, assuming that the trusts created by the Pass Through Trust Agreements will not be taxable as corporations, but, rather, each will be characterized as a grantor trust under subpart E, Part I of Subchapter J of the Code or as a partnership under Subchapter K of the Code, such trusts will not be subject to any Taxes imposed by the State of Delaware or any political subdivision thereof;
     
5.2.12 Broker's Fees
          No Person acting on behalf of WTC, in its individual capacity or as Mortgagee, any Applicable Pass Through Trustee or Subordination Agent, is or will be entitled to any broker's fee, commission or finder's fee in connection with the Transactions.
SECTION 6. COVENANTS, UNDERTAKINGS AND AGREEMENTS
          
6.1 Covenants of Owner
          Owner covenants and agrees, at its own cost and expense, with Note Holder and Mortgagee as follows:
     
6.1.1 Corporate Existence; U.S. Air Carrier
          Owner shall at all times maintain its corporate existence, except as permitted by Section 4.07 of the Trust Indenture, and shall at all times remain a U.S. Air Carrier.
     
6.1.2 Notice of Change of Location
          Owner will give Mortgagee timely written notice (but in any event within 30 days prior to the expiration of the period of time specified under applicable Law to prevent lapse of perfection) of any change in its location (as such term is used in Section 9-307 of the UCC) or legal name and will promptly take any action required by Section 6.1.3(c) as a result of such relocation.
     
6.1.3 Certain Assurances
          (a) Owner shall duly execute, acknowledge and deliver, or shall cause to be executed, acknowledged and delivered, all such further agreements, instruments, certificates or documents, and shall do and cause to be done such further acts and things, in any case, as Mortgagee shall reasonably request for accomplishing the purposes of this Agreement and the
 
other Operative Agreements, provided that any instrument or other document so executed by Owner will not expand any obligations or limit any rights of Owner in respect of the transactions contemplated by any Operative Agreement.
          (b) Owner shall promptly take such action with respect to the recording, filing, re-recording and refiling of the Trust Indenture and any supplements thereto, including, without limitation, the initial Trust Indenture Supplement, as shall be necessary to continue the perfection and priority of the Lien created by the Trust Indenture.
          (c) Owner, at its sole cost and expense, will cause the FAA Filed Documents, the Financing Statements and all continuation statements (and any amendments necessitated by any combination, consolidation or merger of the Owner, or any relocation of its chief executive office) in respect of the Financing Statements to be prepared and, subject only to the execution and delivery thereof by Mortgagee, duly and timely filed and recorded, or filed for recordation, to the extent permitted under the Act (with respect to the FAA Filed Documents) or the UCC or similar law of any other applicable jurisdiction (with respect to such other documents).
          (d) If the Aircraft has been registered in a country other than the United States pursuant to Section 4.02(e) of the Trust Indenture, Owner will furnish to Mortgagee annually after such registration, commencing with the calendar year after such registration is effected, an opinion of special counsel reasonably satisfactory to Mortgagee stating that, in the opinion of such counsel, either that (i) such action has been taken with respect to the recording, filing, rerecording and refiling of the Operative Agreements and any supplements and amendments thereto as is necessary to establish, perfect and protect the Lien created by the Trust Indenture, reciting the details of such actions, or (ii) no such action is necessary to maintain the perfection of such Lien.
          (e) Promptly after the occurrence of a Triggering Event or an Indenture Default resulting from the failure of the Owner to make payments on any Equipment Note and on every Regular Distribution Date while the Triggering Event or such Indenture Default shall be continuing, the Owner will, at the Subordination Agent's request from time to time but in any event no more frequently than once every three months, provide to the Subordination Agent a statement setting forth the following information with respect to the Aircraft: (A) whether the Aircraft is currently in service or parked in storage, (B) the maintenance status of the Aircraft and (C) the location of the Engines (as defined in the Trust Indenture). As used in this sentence, the terms "Triggering Event", "Indenture Default" and "Regular Distribution Date" shall have the respective meanings set forth in the Intercreditor Agreement as originally executed.
     
6.1.4 Securities Laws
          Neither Owner nor any person authorized to act on its behalf will directly or indirectly offer any beneficial interest or Security relating to the ownership of the Aircraft or any interest in any of the Equipment Notes or any other interest in or security under the Trust Indenture, for sale to, or solicit any offer to acquire any such interest or security from, or sell any such interest or security to, any person in violation of the Securities Act or applicable state or foreign securities Laws.
 
     
6.1.5. Notice of Lease
          Owner shall give to Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc., a copy of any notice regarding a lease of the Aircraft required to be given to the Mortgagee pursuant to clause (w) of the first sentence of the penultimate paragraph of Section 4.02(b) of the Mortgage, at the time such notice is given to Mortgagee, if at such time Standard & Poor's is then rating the Pass Through Certificates.
          
6.2 Covenants of WTC
          WTC in its individual capacity or as Mortgagee, each Applicable Pass Through Trustee or Subordination Agent, as the case may be, covenants and agrees with Owner as follows:
     
6.2.1 Liens
          WTC (a) will not directly or indirectly create, incur, assume or suffer to exist any Lien attributable to it on or with respect to all or any part of the Collateral or the Aircraft, (b) will, at its own cost and expense, promptly take such action as may be necessary to discharge any Lien attributable to WTC on all or any part of the Collateral or the Aircraft and (c) will personally hold harmless and indemnify Owner, each Note Holder, each of their respective Affiliates, successors and permitted assigns, and the Collateral from and against (i) any and all Expenses, (ii) any reduction in the amount payable out of the Collateral, and (iii) any interference with the possession, operation or other use of all or any part of the Aircraft, imposed on, incurred by or asserted against any of the foregoing as a consequence of any such Lien.
     
6.2.2 Securities Act
          WTC in its individual capacity or as Mortgagee, an Applicable Pass Through Trustee or Subordination Agent, will not offer any beneficial interest or Security relating to the ownership of the Aircraft or any interest in the Collateral, or any of the Equipment Notes or any other interest in or security under the Trust Indenture for sale to, or solicit any offer to acquire any such interest or security from, or sell any such interest or security to, any Person in violation of the Securities Act or applicable state or foreign securities Laws, provided that the foregoing shall not be deemed to impose on WTC any responsibility with respect to any such offer, sale or solicitation by any other party hereto.
     
6.2.3 Performance of Agreements
          WTC, in its individual capacity and as Mortgagee, an Applicable Pass Through Trustee or Subordination Agent, as the case may be, shall perform its obligations under the Pass Through Trustee Agreements and the Operative Agreements in accordance with the terms thereof.
     
6.2.4 Withholding Taxes
          WTC shall indemnify (on an after-tax basis) and hold harmless Owner against any United States withholding taxes (and related interest, penalties and additions to tax) as a result of
 
the failure by WTC to withhold on payments to any Note Holder if such Note Holder failed to provide to Mortgagee necessary certificates or forms to substantiate the right to exemption from such withholding tax.
          
6.3 Covenants of Note Holders
          Each Note Holder (including Subordination Agent) as to itself only covenants and agrees with Owner and Mortgagee as follows:
     
6.3.1 Withholding Taxes
          Such Note Holder (if it is a Non-U.S. Person) agrees to indemnify (on an after-tax basis) and hold harmless Owner and Mortgagee against any United States withholding taxes (and related interest, penalties and additions to tax) as a result of the inaccuracy or invalidity of any certificate or form provided by such Note Holder to Mortgagee in connection with such withholding taxes. Any amount payable hereunder shall be paid within 30 days after receipt by a Note Holder of a written demand therefor.
     
6.3.2 Transfer; Compliance
          (a) Such Note Holder will (i) not transfer any Equipment Note or interest therein in violation of the Securities Act or applicable state or foreign securities Law; provided, that the foregoing provisions of this section shall not be deemed to impose on such Note Holder any responsibility with respect to any such offer, sale or solicitation by any other party hereto, and (ii) perform and comply with the obligations specified to be imposed on it (as a Note Holder) under each of the Trust Indenture and the form of Equipment Note set forth in the Trust Indenture.
          (b) Except for the transfer of the interests of each Applicable Pass Through Trustee in the Equipment Notes to the trustee of the Related Trust (as defined in each Applicable Pass Through Trust Agreement) in accordance with the related Applicable Pass Through Trust Agreement, each Note Holder will not sell, assign, convey, exchange or otherwise transfer any Equipment Note or any interest in, or represented by, any Equipment Note (it being understood that this provision is not applicable to the Pass Through Certificates) unless the proposed transferee thereof first provides Owner with both of the following:
 
          
6.4 Agreements
     
6.4.1 Quiet Enjoyment
          Each Pass Through Trustee, Subordination Agent, each Note Holder and Mortgagee agrees as to itself with Owner that, so long as no Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, such Person shall not (and shall not permit any Affiliate or other Person claiming by, through or under it to) interfere with Owner's rights in accordance with the Trust Indenture to the quiet enjoyment, possession and use of the Aircraft.
     
6.4.2 Consents
          Each Pass Through Trustee, Subordination Agent and Mortgagee covenants and agrees, for the benefit of Owner, that it shall not unreasonably withhold its consent to any consent or approval requested of it under the terms of any of the Operative Agreements which by its terms is not to be unreasonably withheld.
     
6.4.3 Insurance
          Each Pass Through Trustee, Subordination Agent, Mortgagee and each Note Holder agrees not to obtain or maintain insurance for its own account as permitted by Section 4.06 of the Trust Indenture if such insurance would limit or otherwise adversely affect the coverage of any insurance required to be obtained or maintained by Owner pursuant to Section 4.06 of the Trust Indenture.
     
6.4.4 Extent of Interest of Note Holders
          A Note Holder shall not, as such, have any further interest in, or other right with respect to, the Collateral when and if the principal and Make-Whole Amount, if any, of and interest on the Equipment Note held by such Holder, and all other sums, then due and payable to such Holder hereunder and under any other Operative Agreement, shall have been paid in full. The preceding sentence shall not limit the rights of the Related Note Holders with respect to Related Secured Obligations under the Trust Indenture, provided that a Related Note Holder shall not, as such, have any further interest in, or other right with respect to, the Collateral when and if the Related Secured Obligations attributable to the Related Equipment Note held by such Holder shall have been paid in full.
     
6.4.5 Foreign Registration
          Each Note Holder and Mortgagee hereby agree, for the benefit of Owner but subject to the provisions of Section 4.02(b) of the Trust Indenture:
 
          (a) that Owner shall be entitled to register the Aircraft or cause the Aircraft to be registered in a country other than the United States subject to compliance with the following:
 
          (b) In addition, as a condition precedent to any change in registration, Owner shall have given to Mortgagee assurances reasonably satisfactory to Mortgagee:
     
6.4.6 Interest in Certain Engines
          Each Note Holder and Mortgagee agree, for the benefit of each of the lessor, conditional seller, mortgagee or secured party of any airframe or engine leased to, or purchased by, Owner or any Permitted Lessee subject to a lease, conditional sale, trust indenture or other security agreement that it will not acquire or claim, as against such lessor, conditional seller, mortgagee or secured party, any right, title or interest in any engine as the result of such engine being installed on the Airframe at any time while such engine is subject to such lease, conditional sale, trust indenture or other security agreement and owned by such lessor or conditional seller or subject to a trust indenture or security interest in favor of such mortgagee or secured party.
 
SECTION 7. [INTENTIONALLY OMITTED]
SECTION 8. INDEMNIFICATION AND EXPENSES
          
8.1 General Indemnity
     
8.1.1 Indemnity
          Whether or not any of the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated, Owner shall indemnify, protect, defend and hold harmless each Indemnitee from, against and in respect of, and shall pay on a net after-tax basis, any and all Expenses of any kind or nature whatsoever that may be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against any Indemnitee, relating to, resulting from, or arising out of or in connection with, any one or more of the following:
          (a) The Operative Agreements, the Applicable Pass Through Agreements, or the enforcement of any of the terms of any of the Operative Agreements or the Applicable Pass Through Agreements;
          (b) The Aircraft, the Airframe, any Engine or any Part, including, without limitation, with respect thereto, (i) the manufacture, design, purchase, acceptance, nonacceptance or rejection, ownership, registration, reregistration, deregistration, delivery, nondelivery, lease, sublease, assignment, possession, use or non-use, operation, maintenance, testing, repair, overhaul, condition, alteration, modification, addition, improvement, storage, airworthiness, replacement, repair, sale, substitution, return, abandonment, redelivery or other disposition of the Aircraft, any Engine or any Part, (ii) any claim or penalty arising out of violations of applicable Laws by Owner (or any Permitted Lessee), (iii) tort liability, whether or not arising out of the negligence of any Indemnitee (whether active, passive or imputed), (iv) death or property damage of passengers, shippers or others, (v) environmental control, noise or pollution and (vi) any Liens in respect of the Aircraft, any Engine or any Part;
          (c) The offer, sale, or delivery of any Equipment Notes, Pass Through Certificates or any interest therein or represented thereby; and
          (d) Any breach of or failure to perform or observe, or any other noncompliance with, any covenant or agreement or other obligation to be performed by Owner under any Operative Agreement to which it is party or any Applicable Pass Through Agreement or the falsity of any representation or warranty of Owner in any Operative Agreement to which it is party or any Applicable Pass Through Agreement.
     
8.1.2 Exceptions
          Notwithstanding anything contained in Section 8.1.1, Owner shall not be required to indemnify, protect, defend and hold harmless any Indemnitee pursuant to Section 8.1.1 in respect of any Expense of such Indemnitee:
          (a) For any Taxes or a loss of Tax benefit, whether or not Owner is required to indemnify therefor pursuant to Section 8.3;
 
          (b) Except to the extent attributable to acts or events occurring prior thereto, acts or events (other than acts or events related to the performance by Owner of its obligations pursuant to the terms of the Operative Agreements) that occur after the Trust Indenture is required to be terminated in accordance with Section 11.01 of the Trust Indenture; provided, that nothing in this clause (b) shall be deemed to exclude or limit any claim that any Indemnitee may have under applicable Law by reason of an Event of Default or for damages from Owner for breach of Owner's covenants contained in the Operative Agreements or to release Owner from any of its obligations under the Operative Agreements that expressly provide for performance after termination of the Trust Indenture;
          (c) To the extent attributable to any Transfer (voluntary or involuntary) by or on behalf of such Indemnitee of any Equipment Note or interest therein, except for out-of-pocket costs and expenses incurred as a result of any such Transfer pursuant to the exercise of remedies under any Operative Agreement;
          (d) [Intentionally Omitted]
          (e) To the extent attributable to the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Indemnitee or any related Indemnitee (as defined below) (other than gross negligence or willful misconduct imputed to such person by reason of its interest in the Aircraft or any Operative Agreement);
          (f) [Intentionally Omitted]
          (g) To the extent attributable to the incorrectness or breach of any representation or warranty of such Indemnitee or any related Indemnitee contained in or made pursuant to any Operative Agreement or any Pass Through Agreement;
          (h) To the extent attributable to the failure by such Indemnitee or any related Indemnitee to perform or observe any agreement, covenant or condition on its part to be performed or observed in any Operative Agreement or any Pass Through Agreement;
          (i) To the extent attributable to the offer or sale by such Indemnitee or any related Indemnitee of any interest in the Aircraft, the Equipment Notes, the Pass Through Certificates, or any similar interest, in violation of the Securities Act or other applicable federal, state or foreign securities Laws (other than any thereof caused by acts or omissions of Owner);
          (j) (i) With respect to any Indemnitee (other than Mortgagee), to the extent attributable to the failure of the Mortgagee to distribute funds received and distributable by it in accordance with the Trust Indenture, (ii) with respect to any Indemnitee (other than the Subordination Agent), to the extent attributable to the failure of the Subordination Agent to distribute funds received and distributable by it in accordance with the Intercreditor Agreement, (iii) with respect to any Indemnitee (other than the Pass Through Trustees), to the extent attributable to the failure of a Pass Through Trustee to distribute funds received and distributable by it in accordance with the Pass Through Trust Agreements, (iv) with respect to Mortgagee, to the extent attributable to the negligence or willful misconduct of Mortgagee in the distribution of funds received and distributable by it in accordance with the Trust Indenture, (v) with respect to the Subordination Agent, to the extent attributable to the negligence or willful misconduct of the
 
Subordination Agent in the distribution of funds received and distributable by it in accordance with the Intercreditor Agreement, and (vi) with respect to the Pass Through Trustees, to the extent attributable to the negligence or willful misconduct of a Pass Through Trustee in the distribution of funds received and distributable by it in accordance with the Pass Through Trust Agreements;
          (k) Other than during the continuation of an Event of Default, to the extent attributable to the authorization or giving or withholding of any future amendments, supplements, waivers or consents with respect to any Operative Agreement or Pass Through Agreement other than such as have been requested by Owner or as are required by or made pursuant to the terms of the Operative Agreements or Pass Through Agreements (unless such requirement results from the actions of an Indemnitee not required by or made pursuant to the Operative Agreements or the Pass Through Agreements);
          (l) To the extent attributable to any amount which any Indemnitee expressly agrees to pay or such Indemnitee expressly agrees shall not be paid by or be reimbursed by Owner;
          (m) To the extent that it is an ordinary and usual operating or overhead expense;
          (n) [Intentionally Omitted]
          (o) For any Lien attributable to such Indemnitee or any related Indemnitee;
          (p) If another provision of an Operative Agreement or a Pass Through Agreement specifies the extent of Owner's responsibility or obligation with respect to such Expense, to the extent arising from other than failure of Owner to comply with such specified responsibility or obligation; or
          (q) To the extent incurred by or asserted against an Indemnitee as a result of any "prohibited transaction", within the meaning of Section 406 of ERISA or Section 4975(c)(1) of the Code.
          For purposes of this Section 8.1, a Person shall be considered a "related" Indemnitee with respect to an Indemnitee if such Person is an Affiliate or employer of such Indemnitee, a director, officer, employee, agent, or servant of such Indemnitee or any such Affiliate or a successor or permitted assignee of any of the foregoing.
     
8.1.3 Separate Agreement
          This Agreement constitutes a separate agreement with respect to each Indemnitee and is enforceable directly by each such Indemnitee.
     
8.1.4 Notice
          If a claim for any Expense that an Indemnitee shall be indemnified against under this Section 8.1 is made, such Indemnitee shall give prompt written notice thereof to Owner.
 
Notwithstanding the foregoing, the failure of any Indemnitee to notify Owner as provided in this Section 8.1.4, or in Section 8.1.5, shall not release Owner from any of its obligations to indemnify such Indemnitee hereunder, except to the extent that such failure results in an additional Expense to Owner (in which event Owner shall not be responsible for such additional expense) or materially impairs Owner's ability to contest such claim.
     
8.1.5 Notice of Proceedings; Defense of Claims; Limitations
          (a) In case any action, suit or proceeding shall be brought against any Indemnitee for which Owner is responsible under this Section 8.1, such Indemnitee shall notify Owner of the commencement thereof and Owner may, at its expense, participate in and to the extent that it shall wish (subject to the provisions of the following paragraph), assume and control the defense thereof and, subject to Section 8.1.5(c), settle or compromise the same.
          (b) Owner or its insurer(s) shall have the right, at its or their expense, to investigate or, if Owner or its insurer(s) shall agree not to dispute liability to the Indemnitee giving notice of such action, suit or proceeding under this Section 8.1.5 for indemnification hereunder or under any insurance policies pursuant to which coverage is sought, control the defense of, any action, suit or proceeding, relating to any Expense for which indemnification is sought pursuant to this Section 8.1, and each Indemnitee shall cooperate with Owner or its insurer(s) with respect thereto; provided, that Owner shall not be entitled to control the defense of any such action, suit, proceeding or compromise any such Expense during the continuance of any Event of Default. In connection with any such action, suit or proceeding being controlled by Owner, such Indemnitee shall have the right to participate therein, at its sole cost and expense, with counsel reasonably satisfactory to Owner; provided, that such Indemnitee's participation does not, in the reasonable opinion of the independent counsel appointed by the Owner or its insurers to conduct such proceedings, interfere with the defense of such case.
          (c) In no event shall any Indemnitee enter into a settlement or other compromise with respect to any Expense without the prior written consent of Owner, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, unless such Indemnitee waives its right to be indemnified with respect to such Expense under this Section 8.1.
          (d) In the case of any Expense indemnified by the Owner hereunder which is covered by a policy of insurance maintained by Owner pursuant to Section 4.06 of the Indenture, at Owner's expense, each Indemnitee agrees to cooperate with the insurers in the exercise of their rights to investigate, defend or compromise such Expense as may be required to retain the benefits of such insurance with respect to such Expense.
          (e) If an Indemnitee is not a party to this Agreement, Owner may require such Indemnitee to agree in writing to the terms of this Section 8 and Section 12.8 prior to making any payment to such Indemnitee under this Section 8.
          (f) Nothing contained in this Section 8.1.5 shall be deemed to require an Indemnitee to contest any Expense or to assume responsibility for or control of any judicial proceeding with respect thereto.
 
     
8.1.6 Information
          Owner will provide the relevant Indemnitee with such information not within the control of such Indemnitee, as is in Owner's control or is reasonably available to Owner, which such Indemnitee may reasonably request and will otherwise cooperate with such Indemnitee so as to enable such Indemnitee to fulfill its obligations under Section 8.1.5. The Indemnitee shall supply Owner with such information not within the control of Owner, as is in such Indemnitee's control or is reasonably available to such Indemnitee, which Owner may reasonably request and will otherwise cooperate with Owner so as to enable Owner to control or participate in any proceeding to the extent permitted by Section 8.1.5 and otherwise to fulfill its obligations under Section 8.15.
     
8.1.7 Effect of Other Indemnities; Subrogation; Further Assurances
          Upon the payment in full by Owner of any indemnity provided for under this Agreement, Owner, without any further action and to the full extent permitted by Law, will be subrogated to all rights and remedies of the person indemnified (other than with respect to any of such Indemnitee's insurance policies or in connection with any indemnity claim such Indemnitee may have under Section 6.03 or 8.01 of the Trust Indenture) in respect of the matter as to which such indemnity was paid. Each Indemnitee will give such further assurances or agreements and cooperate with Owner to permit Owner to pursue such claims, if any, to the extent reasonably requested by Owner and at Owner's expense.
     
8.1.8 Refunds
          If an Indemnitee receives any refund, in whole or in part, with respect to any Expense paid by Owner hereunder, it will promptly pay the amount refunded (but not an amount in excess of the amount Owner or any of its insurers has paid in respect of such Expense) over to Owner unless an Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing, in which case such amounts shall be paid over to Mortgagee to hold as security for Owner's obligations under the Operative Agreements or, if requested by Owner, applied to satisfy such obligations.
          
8.2 Expenses
     
8.2.1 Invoices and Payment
          The Mortgagee, the Applicable Pass Through Trustees and the Subordination Agent shall promptly submit to Owner for its prompt approval (which shall not be unreasonably withheld) copies of invoices in reasonable detail of the Transaction Expenses for which it is responsible for providing information as they are received (but in no event later than the 90th day after the Closing Date). If so submitted and approved, the Owner agrees promptly, but in any event no later than the 105th day after the Closing Date, to pay Transaction Expenses.
     
8.2.2 Payment of Other Expenses
          Owner shall pay (i) the ongoing fees and expenses of Mortgagee, and (ii) all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses (including the reasonable fees and disbursements of
 
counsel) incurred by Mortgagee or any Note Holder attributable to any waiver, amendment or modification of any Operative Agreement to the extent requested by Owner.
          
8.3 General Tax Indemnity
     
8.3.1 General
          Except as provided in Section 8.3.2, Owner agrees that each payment paid by Owner under the Equipment Notes, and any other payment or indemnity paid by Owner to a Tax Indemnitee under any Operative Agreement, shall be free of all withholdings or deductions with respect to Taxes of any nature (other than U.S. federal, state or local withholding taxes on, based on or measured by gross or net income), and in the event that Owner shall be required by applicable law to make any such withholding or deduction for any such payment (x) Owner shall make all such withholdings or deductions, (y) the amount payable by Owner shall be increased so that after making all required withholdings or deductions such Tax Indemnitee receives the same amount that it would have received had no such withholdings or deductions been made, and (z) Owner shall pay the full amount withheld or deducted to the relevant Taxing Authority in accordance with applicable law. Except as provided in Section 8.3.2 and whether or not any of the transactions contemplated hereby are consummated, Owner shall pay, indemnify, protect, defend and hold each Tax Indemnitee harmless from all Taxes imposed by any Taxing Authority that may from time to time be imposed on or asserted against any Tax Indemnitee or the Aircraft, the Airframe, any Engine or any Part or any interest in any of the foregoing (whether or not indemnified against by any other Person), upon or with respect to the Operative Agreements or the transactions or payments contemplated thereby, including but not limited to any Tax imposed upon or with respect to (x) the Aircraft, the Airframe, any Engine, any Part, any Operative Agreement (including without limitation any Equipment Notes) or any data or any other thing delivered or to be delivered under an Operative Agreement, (y) the purchase, manufacture, acceptance, rejection, sale, transfer of title, return, ownership, mortgaging, delivery, transport, charter, rental, lease, re-lease, sublease, assignment, possession, repossession, presence, use, condition, storage, preparation, maintenance, modification, alteration, improvement, operation, registration, transfer or change of registration, reregistration, repair, replacement, overhaul, location, control, the imposition of any Lien, financing, refinancing requested by the Owner, abandonment or other disposition of the Aircraft, the Airframe, any Engine, any Part, any data or any other thing delivered or to be delivered under an Operative Agreement or (z) interest, fees or any other income, proceeds, receipts or earnings, whether actual or deemed, arising upon, in connection with, or in respect of, any of the Operative Agreements (including the property or income or other proceeds with respect to property held as part of the Collateral) or the transactions contemplated thereby.
     
8.3.2 Certain Exceptions
          The provisions of Section 8.3.1 shall not apply to, and Owner shall have no liability hereunder for, Taxes:
          (a) imposed on a Tax Indemnitee by the federal government of the United States or any Taxing Authority or governmental subdivision of the United States or therein (including any state or local Taxing Authority) (i) on, based on, or measured by, gross or net
 
income or gross or net receipts, including capital gains taxes, excess profits taxes, minimum taxes from tax preferences, alternative minimum taxes, branch profits taxes, accumulated earnings taxes, personal holding company taxes, succession taxes and estate taxes, and any withholding taxes on, based on or measured by gross or net income or receipts or (ii) on, or with respect to, or measured by, capital or net worth or in the nature of a franchise tax or a tax for the privilege of doing business (other than, in the case of clause (i) or (ii), sales, use, license or property Taxes);
          (b) imposed on a Tax Indemnitee by any Taxing Authority or governmental subdivision thereof or therein outside of the United States (including any Taxing Authority in or of a territory, possession or commonwealth of the United States) (i) on, based on, or measured by, gross or net income or gross or net receipts, including capital gains taxes, excess profits taxes, minimum taxes from tax preferences, alternative minimum taxes, branch profits taxes, accumulated earnings taxes, personal holding company taxes, succession taxes and estate taxes, and any withholding taxes on, based on or measured by gross or net income or receipts or (ii) on, or with respect to, or measured by, capital or net worth or in the nature of a franchise tax or a tax for the privilege of doing business (other than, in the case of clause (i) or (ii), (A) sales, use, license or property Taxes, or (B) any Taxes imposed by any Taxing Authority (other than a Taxing Authority within whose jurisdiction such Tax Indemnitee is incorporated or organized or maintains its principal place of business) if such Tax Indemnitee would not have been subject to Taxes of such type by such jurisdiction but for (I) the location, use or operation of the Aircraft, the Airframe, any Engine or any Part thereof by an Owner Person within the jurisdiction of the Taxing Authority imposing such Tax, or (II) the activities of any Owner Person in such jurisdiction, including, but not limited to, use of any other aircraft by Owner in such jurisdiction, (III) the status of any Owner Person as a foreign entity or as an entity owned in whole or in part by foreign persons, (IV) Owner having made (or having been deemed to have made) payments to such Tax Indemnitee from the relevant jurisdiction or (V) in the case of the Applicable Pass Through Trustees, the Note Holders or any related Tax Indemnitee, the Owner being incorporated or organized or maintaining a place of business or conducting activities in such jurisdiction);
          (c) on, or with respect to, or measured by, any trustee fees, commissions or compensation received by the Pass Through Trustee, Subordination Agent or Mortgagee;
          (d) that are being contested as provided in Section 8.3.4 hereof;
          (e) imposed on any Tax Indemnitee to the extent that such Taxes result from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Tax Indemnitee or any Affiliate thereof;
          (f) imposed on or with respect to a Tax Indemnitee (including the transferee in those cases in which the Tax on transfer is imposed on, or is collected from, the transferee) as a result of a transfer or other disposition (including a deemed transfer or disposition) by such Tax Indemnitee or a related Tax Indemnitee of any interest in the Aircraft, the Airframe, any Engine or any Part, any interest arising under the Operative Agreements or any Equipment Note or as a result of a transfer or disposition (including a deemed transfer or disposition) of any interest in a Tax Indemnitee (other than (A) a substitution or replacement of the Aircraft, the Airframe, any Engine or any Part by an Owner Person that is treated for Tax purposes as a transfer or
 
disposition, or (B) a transfer pursuant to an exercise of remedies upon an Event of Default that shall have occurred and have been continuing);
          (g) Taxes in excess of those that would have been imposed had there not been a transfer or other disposition by or to such Tax Indemnitee or a related Tax Indemnitee described in paragraph (f) above;
          (h) consisting of any interest, penalties or additions to tax imposed on a Tax Indemnitee as a result of (in whole or in part) failure of such Tax Indemnitee or a related Tax Indemnitee to file any return properly and timely, unless such failure shall be caused by the failure of Owner to fulfill its obligations, if any, under Section 8.3.6 with respect to such return;
          (i) resulting from, or that would not have been imposed but for, any Liens arising as a result of claims against, or acts or omissions of, or otherwise attributable to such Tax Indemnitee or a related Tax Indemnitee that the Owner is not obligated to discharge under the Operative Agreements;
          (j) imposed on any Tax Indemnitee as a result of the breach by such Tax Indemnitee or a related Tax Indemnitee of any covenant of such Tax Indemnitee or any Affiliate thereof contained in any Operative Agreement or the inaccuracy of any representation or warranty by such Tax Indemnitee or any Affiliate thereof in any Operative Agreement;
          (k) in the nature of an intangible or similar Tax upon or with respect to the value or principal amount of the interest of any Note Holder in any Equipment Note or the loan evidenced thereby but only if such Taxes are in the nature of franchise Taxes or result from the Tax Indemnitee doing business in the taxing jurisdiction and are imposed because of the place of incorporation or the activities unrelated to the transactions contemplated by the Operative Agreements in the taxing jurisdiction of such Tax Indemnitee;
          (l) imposed on a Tax Indemnitee by a Taxing Authority of a jurisdiction outside the United States to the extent that such Taxes would not have been imposed but for a connection between the Tax Indemnitee or a related Tax Indemnitee and such jurisdiction imposing such Tax unrelated to the transactions contemplated by the Operative Agreements; or
          (m) Taxes relating to ERISA or Section 4975 of the Code.
          For purposes hereof, a Tax Indemnitee and any other Tax Indemnitees that are successors, assigns, agents, servants or Affiliates of such Tax Indemnitee shall be related Tax Indemnitees.
     
8.3.3 Payment
          (a) Owner's indemnity obligation to a Tax Indemnitee under this Section 8.3 shall equal the amount which, after taking into account any Tax imposed upon the receipt or accrual of the amounts payable under this Section 8.3 and any tax benefits actually recognized by such Tax Indemnitee as a result of the indemnifiable Tax (including, without limitation, any benefits recognized as a result of an indemnifiable Tax being utilized by such Tax Indemnitee as
 
a credit against Taxes not indemnifiable under this Section 8.3), shall equal the amount of the Tax indemnifiable under this Section 8.3.
          (b) At Owner's request, the computation of the amount of any indemnity payment owed by Owner or any amount owed by a Tax Indemnitee to Owner pursuant to this Section 8.3 shall be verified and certified by an independent public accounting firm selected by such Tax Indemnitee and reasonably satisfactory to Owner. Such verification shall be binding. The costs of such verification (including the fee of such public accounting firm) shall be borne by Owner unless such verification shall result in an adjustment in Owner's favor of 5% or more of the net present value of the payment as computed by such Tax Indemnitee, in which case the costs shall be paid by such Tax Indemnitee.
          (c) Each Tax Indemnitee shall provide Owner with such certifications, information and documentation as shall be in such Tax Indemnitee's possession and as shall be reasonably requested by Owner to minimize any indemnity payment pursuant to this Section 8.3; provided, that notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, no Tax Indemnitee shall be required to provide Owner with any Tax returns.
          (d) Each Tax Indemnitee shall promptly forward to Owner any written notice, bill or advice received by it from any Taxing Authority concerning any Tax for which it seeks indemnification under this Section 8.3. Owner shall pay any amount for which it is liable pursuant to this Section 8.3 directly to the appropriate Taxing Authority if legally permissible or upon demand of a Tax Indemnitee, to such Tax Indemnitee within 30 days of such demand (or, if a contest occurs in accordance with Section 8.3.4, within 30 days after a Final Determination (as defined below)), but in no event more than one Business Day prior to the date the Tax to which such amount payable hereunder relates is due. If requested by a Tax Indemnitee in writing, Owner shall furnish to the appropriate Tax Indemnitee the original or a certified copy of a receipt for Owner's payment of any Tax paid by Owner or such other evidence of payment of such Tax as is acceptable to such Tax Indemnitee. Owner shall also furnish promptly upon written request such data as any Tax Indemnitee may reasonably require to enable such Tax Indemnitee to comply with the requirements of any taxing jurisdiction unless such data is not reasonably available to Owner or, unless such data is specifically requested by a Taxing Authority, is not customarily furnished by domestic air carriers under similar circumstances. For purposes of this Section 8.3, a "Final Determination" shall mean (i) a decision, judgment, decree or other order by any court of competent jurisdiction that occurs pursuant to the provisions of Section 8.3.4, which decision, judgment, decree or other order has become final and unappealable, (ii) a closing agreement or settlement agreement entered into in accordance with Section 8.3.4 that has become binding and is not subject to further review or appeal (absent fraud, misrepresentation, etc.), or (iii) the termination of administrative proceedings and the expiration of the time for instituting a claim in a court proceeding.
          (e) If any Tax Indemnitee shall actually realize a tax savings by reason of any Tax paid or indemnified by Owner pursuant to this Section 8.3 (whether such tax savings shall be by means of a foreign tax credit, depreciation or cost recovery deduction or otherwise) and such savings is not otherwise taken into account in computing such payment or indemnity such Tax Indemnitee shall pay to Owner an amount equal to the lesser of (i) the amount of such tax savings, plus any additional tax savings recognized as the result of any payment made pursuant
 
to this sentence, when, as, if, and to the extent, realized or (ii) the amount of all payments pursuant to this Section 8.3 by Owner to such Tax Indemnitee (less any payments previously made by such Tax Indemnitee to Owner pursuant to this Section 8.3.3 (e)) (and the excess, if any, of the amount described in clause (i) over the amount described in clause (ii) shall be carried forward and applied to reduce pro tanto any subsequent obligations of Owner to make payments to such Tax Indemnitee pursuant to this Section 8.3); provided, that such Tax Indemnitee shall not be required to make any payment pursuant to this sentence so long as a Lease Event of Default of a monetary nature has occurred and is continuing. If a tax benefit is later disallowed or denied, the disallowance or denial shall be treated as a Tax indemnifiable under Section 8.3.1 without regard to the provisions of Section 8.3.2 (other than Section 8.3.2 (f)). Each such Tax Indemnitee shall in good faith use reasonable efforts in filing its tax returns and in dealing with Taxing Authorities to seek and claim any such tax benefit.
     
8.3.4 Contest
          (a) If a written claim is made against a Tax Indemnitee for Taxes with respect to which Owner could be liable for payment or indemnity hereunder, or if a Tax Indemnitee makes a determination that a Tax is due for which Owner could have an indemnity obligation hereunder, such Tax Indemnitee shall promptly give Owner notice in writing of such claim (provided, that failure to so notify Owner shall not relieve Owner of its indemnity obligations hereunder unless such failure to notify effectively forecloses Owner's rights to require a contest of such claim) and shall take no action with respect to such claim without the prior written consent of Owner for 30 days following the receipt of such notice by Owner; provided, that, in the case of a claim made against a Tax Indemnitee, if such Tax Indemnitee shall be required by law to take action prior to the end of such 30-day period, such Tax Indemnitee shall, in such notice to Owner, so inform Owner, and such Tax Indemnitee shall take no action for as long as it is legally able to do so (it being understood that a Tax Indemnitee shall be entitled to pay the Tax claimed and sue for a refund prior to the end of such 30-day period if (i)(A) the failure to so pay the Tax would result in substantial penalties (unless immediately reimbursed by Owner) and the act of paying the Tax would not materially prejudice the right to contest or (B) the failure to so pay would result in criminal penalties and (ii) such Tax Indemnitee shall take any action so required in connection with so paying the Tax in a manner that is the least prejudicial to the pursuit of the contest). In addition, such Tax Indemnitee shall (provided, that Owner shall have agreed to keep such information confidential other than to the extent necessary in order to contest the claim) furnish Owner with copies of any requests for information from any Taxing Authority relating to such Taxes with respect to which Owner may be required to indemnify hereunder. If requested by Owner in writing within 30 days after its receipt of such notice, such Tax Indemnitee shall, at the expense of Owner (including, without limitation, all reasonable costs, expenses and reasonable attorneys' and accountants' fees and disbursements), in good faith contest (or, if permitted by applicable law, allow Owner to contest) through appropriate administrative and judicial proceedings the validity, applicability or amount of such Taxes by (I) resisting payment thereof, (II) not paying the same except under protest if protest is necessary and proper or (III) if the payment is made, using reasonable efforts to obtain a refund thereof in an appropriate administrative and/or judicial proceeding. If requested to do so by Owner, the Tax Indemnitee shall appeal any adverse administrative or judicial decision, except that the Tax Indemnitee shall not be required to pursue any appeals to the United States Supreme Court. If and to the extent the Tax Indemnitee is able to separate the contested issue or issues from other
 
issues arising in the same administrative or judicial proceeding that are unrelated to the transactions contemplated by the Operative Agreements without, in the good faith judgment of such Tax Indemnitee, adversely affecting such Tax Indemnitee, such Tax Indemnitee shall permit Owner to control the conduct of any such proceeding and shall provide to Owner (at Owner's cost and expense) with such information or data that is in such Tax Indemnitee's control or possession that is reasonably necessary to conduct such contest. In the case of a contest controlled by a Tax Indemnitee, such Tax Indemnitee shall consult with Owner in good faith regarding the manner of contesting such claim and shall keep Owner reasonably informed regarding the progress of such contest. A Tax Indemnitee shall not fail to take any action expressly required by this Section 8.3.4 (including, without limitation, any action regarding any appeal of an adverse determination with respect to any claim) and shall not settle or compromise any claim without the prior written consent of the Owner (except as contemplated by Section 8.3.4(b) or (c)).
          (b) Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall a Tax Indemnitee be required to pursue any contest (or to permit Owner to pursue any contest) unless (i) Owner shall have agreed to pay such Tax Indemnitee on demand all reasonable costs and expenses incurred by such Tax Indemnitee in connection with contesting such Taxes, including, without limitation, all reasonable out of pocket costs and expenses and reasonable attorneys' and accountants' fees and disbursements, (ii) if such contest shall involve the payment of the claim, Owner shall advance the amount thereof (to the extent indemnified hereunder) plus interest, penalties and additions to tax with respect thereto that are required to be paid prior to the commencement of such contest on an interest-free after-Tax basis to such Tax Indemnitee (and such Tax Indemnitee shall promptly pay to the Owner any net realized tax benefits resulting from such advance including any tax benefits resulting from making such payment), (iii) such Tax Indemnitee shall have reasonably determined that the action to be taken will not result in any material risk of forfeiture, sale or loss of the Aircraft (unless Owner shall have made provisions to protect the interests of any such Tax Indemnitee in a manner reasonably satisfactory to such Tax Indemnitee) (provided, that such Tax Indemnitee agrees to notify Owner in writing promptly after it becomes aware of any such risk), (iv) no Lease Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing unless Owner has provided security for its obligations hereunder by advancing to such Tax Indemnitee before proceeding or continuing with such contest, the amount of the Tax being contested, plus any interest and penalties and an amount estimated in good faith by such Tax Indemnitee for expenses, and (v) prior to commencing any judicial action controlled by Owner, Owner shall have acknowledged its liability for such claim hereunder, provided that Owner shall not be bound by its acknowledgment if the Final Determination articulates conclusions of law and fact that demonstrate that Owner has no liability for the contested amounts hereunder. Notwithstanding the foregoing, if any Tax Indemnitee shall release, waive, compromise or settle any claim which may be indemnifiable by Owner pursuant to this Section 8.3 without the written permission of Owner, Owner's obligation to indemnify such Tax Indemnitee with respect to such claim (and all directly related claims and claims based on the outcome of such claim) shall terminate and, subject to Section 8.3.4(c), such Tax Indemnitee shall repay to Owner any amount previously paid or advanced to such Tax Indemnitee with respect to such claim, plus interest at the rate that would have been payable by the relevant Taxing Authority with respect to a refund of such Tax.
 
          (c) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Section 8.3, a Tax Indemnitee will not be required to contest the imposition of any Tax and shall be permitted to settle or compromise any claim without Owner's consent if such Tax Indemnitee (i) shall waive its right to indemnity under this Section 8.3 with respect to such Tax (and any directly related claim and any claim the outcome of which is determined based upon the outcome of such claim), (ii) shall pay to Owner any amount previously paid or advanced by Owner pursuant to this Section 8.3 with respect to such Tax, plus interest at the rate that would have been payable by the relevant Taxing Authority with respect to a refund of such Tax, and (iii) shall agree to discuss with Owner the views or positions of any relevant Taxing Authority with respect to the imposition of such Tax.
     
8.3.5 Refund
          If any Tax Indemnitee shall receive a refund of, or be entitled to a credit against other liability for, all or any part of any Taxes paid, reimbursed or advanced by Owner, such Tax Indemnitee shall pay to Owner within 30 days of such receipt an amount equal to the lesser of (a) the amount of such refund or credit plus any net tax benefit (taking into account any Taxes incurred by such Tax Indemnitee by reason of the receipt of such refund or realization of such credit) actually realized by such Tax Indemnitee as a result of any payment by such Tax Indemnitee made pursuant to this sentence (including this clause (a)) and (b) such tax payment, reimbursement or advance by Owner to such Tax Indemnitee theretofore made pursuant to this Section 8.3 (and the excess, if any, of the amount described in clause (a) over the amount described in clause (b) shall be carried forward and applied to reduce pro tanto any subsequent obligation of Owner to make payments to such Tax Indemnitee pursuant to this Section 8.3). If, in addition to such refund or credit, such Tax Indemnitee shall receive (or be credited with) an amount representing interest on the amount of such refund or credit, such Tax Indemnitee shall pay to Owner within 30 days of such receipt or realization of such credit that proportion of such interest that shall be fairly attributable to Taxes paid, reimbursed or advanced by Owner prior to the receipt of such refund or realization of such credit.
     
8.3.6 Tax Filing
          If any report, return or statement is required to be filed with respect to any Tax which is subject to indemnification under this Section 8.3, Owner shall timely file the same (except for any such report, return or statement which a Tax Indemnitee has timely notified the Owner in writing that such Tax Indemnitee intends to file, or for which such Tax Indemnitee is required by law to file, in its own name); provided, that the relevant Tax Indemnitee shall furnish Owner with any information in such Tax Indemnitee's possession or control that is reasonably necessary to file any such return, report or statement and is reasonably requested in writing by Owner (it being understood that the Tax Indemnitee shall not be required to furnish copies of its actual tax returns, although it may be required to furnish relevant information contained therein). Owner shall either file such report, return or statement and send a copy of such report, return or statement to such Tax Indemnitee, or, where Owner is not permitted to file such report, return or statement, it shall notify such Tax Indemnitee of such requirement and prepare and deliver such report, return or statement to such Tax Indemnitee in a manner satisfactory to such Tax Indemnitee within a reasonable time prior to the time such report, return or statement is to be filed.
 
     
8.3.7 Forms
          Each Tax Indemnitee agrees to furnish from time to time to Owner or Mortgagee or to such other person as Owner or Mortgagee may designate, at Owner's or Mortgagee's request, such duly executed and properly completed forms as may be necessary or appropriate in order to claim any reduction of or exemption from any withholding or other Tax imposed by any Taxing Authority, if (x) such reduction or exemption is available to such Tax Indemnitee and (y) Owner has provided such Tax Indemnitee with any information necessary to complete such form not otherwise reasonably available to such Tax Indemnitee.
     
8.3.8 Non-Parties
          If a Tax Indemnitee is not a party to this Agreement, Owner may require the Tax Indemnitee to agree in writing, in a form reasonably acceptable to Owner, to the terms of this Section 8.3 and Section 12.8 prior to making any payment to such Tax Indemnitee under this Section 8.3.
     
8.3.9 Subrogation
          Upon payment of any Tax by Owner pursuant to this Section 8.3 to or on behalf of a Tax Indemnitee, Owner, without any further action, shall be subrogated to any claims that such Tax Indemnitee may have relating thereto. Such Tax Indemnitee shall cooperate with Owner (to the extent such cooperation does not result in any unreimbursed cost, expense or liability to such Tax Indemnitee) to permit Owner to pursue such claims.
          
8.4 Payments
          Any payments made pursuant to Section 8.1 or 8.3 shall be due on the 60th day after demand therefor and shall be made directly to the relevant Indemnitee or Tax Indemnitee or to Owner, in immediately available funds at such bank or to such account as specified by such Indemnitee or Tax Indemnitee or Owner, as the case may be, in written directives to the payor, or, if no such direction shall have been given, by check of the payor payable to the order of, and mailed to, such Indemnitee or Tax Indemnitee or Owner, as the case may be, by certified mail, postage prepaid, at its address as set forth in this Agreement.
          
8.5 Interest
          If any amount, payable by Owner, any Indemnitee or any Tax Indemnitee under Section 8.1 or 8.3 is not paid when due, the person obligated to make such payment shall pay on demand, to the extent permitted by Law, to the person entitled thereto, interest on any such amount for the period from and including the due date for such amount to but excluding the date the same is paid, at the Payment Due Rate. Such interest shall be paid in the same manner as the unpaid amount in respect of which such interest is due.
          
8.6 Benefit of Indemnities
          The obligations of Owner in respect of all indemnities, obligations, adjustments and payments in Section 8.1 or 8.3 are expressly made for the benefit of, and shall be enforceable
 
by, the Indemnitee or Tax Indemnitee entitled thereto, notwithstanding any provision of the Trust Indenture.
SECTION 9. ASSIGNMENT OR TRANSFER OF INTEREST
          
9.1 Note Holders
          Subject to Section 6.3.2 hereof and Section 2.07 of the Trust Indenture, any Note Holder may, at any time and from time to time, Transfer or grant participations in all or any portion of the Equipment Notes and/or all or any portion of its beneficial interest in its Equipment Notes to any person (it being understood that the sale or issuance of Pass Through Certificates by a Pass Through Trustee shall not be considered a Transfer or participation); provided, that any participant in any such participations shall not have any direct rights under the Operative Agreements or any Lien on all or any part of the Aircraft or the Collateral and Owner shall not have any increased liability or obligations as a result of any such participation. In the case of any such Transfer, the Transferee, by acceptance of Equipment Notes in connection with such Transfer, shall be deemed to be bound by (i) all of the covenants of Note Holders contained in the Operative Agreements and (ii) certain terms of the Intercreditor Agreement as specified in such Equipment Notes and/or Section 2.07 of the Trust Indenture.
          
9.2 Effect of Transfer
          Upon any Transfer in accordance with Section 9.1 (other than any Transfer by any Note Holder, to the extent it only grants participations in Equipment Notes or in its beneficial interest therein), Transferee shall be deemed a "Note Holder," for all purposes of this Agreement and the other Operative Agreements, and the transferring Note Holder shall be released from all of its liabilities and obligations under this Agreement and any other Operative Agreements to the extent such liabilities and obligations arise after such Transfer and, in each case, to the extent such liabilities and obligations are assumed by the Transferee; provided, that such transferring Note Holder (and its respective Affiliates, successors, assigns, agents, servants, representatives, directors and officers) will continue to have the benefit of any rights or indemnities under any Operative Agreement vested or relating to circumstances, conditions, acts or events prior to such Transfer.
SECTION 10. SECTION 1110
          It is the intention of each of the Owner, the Note Holders (such intention being evidenced by each of their acceptance of an Equipment Note), and Mortgagee that Mortgagee shall be entitled to the benefits of Section 1110 in the event of a case under Chapter 11 of the Bankruptcy Code in which Owner is a debtor.
SECTION 11. CHANGE OF CITIZENSHIP
          
11.1 Generally
          Without prejudice to the representations, warranties or covenants regarding the status of any party hereto as a Citizen of the United States, each of Owner, WTC and Mortgagee agrees that it will, immediately upon obtaining knowledge of any facts that would cast doubt
 
upon its continuing status as a Citizen of the United States and promptly upon public disclosure of negotiations in respect of any transaction which would or might adversely affect such status, notify in writing all parties hereto of all relevant matters in connection therewith.
          
11.2 Mortgagee
          Upon WTC giving any notice in accordance with Section 11.1, Mortgagee shall (if and so long as such citizenship is necessary under the Act as in effect at such time or, if it is not necessary, if and so long as Mortgagee's citizenship could have any adverse effect on Owner or any Note Holder), subject to Section 9.02 of the Trust Indenture, resign as Mortgagee promptly upon its ceasing to be such a citizen.
SECTION 12. MISCELLANEOUS
          
12.1 Amendments
          No provision of this Agreement may be amended, supplemented, waived, modified, discharged, terminated or otherwise varied orally, but only by an instrument in writing that specifically identifies the provision of this Agreement that it purports to amend, supplement, waive, modify, discharge, terminate or otherwise vary and is signed by the party against which the enforcement of the amendment, supplement, waiver, modification, discharge, termination or variance is sought. Each such amendment, supplement, waiver, modification, discharge, termination or variance shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which it is given. No provision of this Agreement shall be varied or contradicted by oral communication, course of dealing or performance or other manner not set forth in an agreement, document or instrument in writing and signed by the party against which enforcement of the same is sought.
          
12.2 Severability
          If any provision hereof shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect in any jurisdiction, then, to the extent permitted by Law, (a) all other provisions hereof shall remain in full force and effect in such jurisdiction and (b) such invalidity, illegality or unenforceability shall not affect the validity, legality or enforceability of such provision in any other jurisdiction. If, however, any Law pursuant to which such provisions are held invalid, illegal or unenforceable may be waived, such Law is hereby waived by the parties hereto to the full extent permitted, to the end that this Agreement shall be deemed to be a valid and binding agreement in all respects, enforceable in accordance with its terms.
          
12.3 Survival
          The indemnities set forth herein shall survive the delivery or return of the Aircraft, the Transfer of any interest by any Note Holder of its Equipment Note and the expiration or other termination of this Agreement or any other Operative Agreement.
 
          
12.4 Reproduction of Documents
          This Agreement, all schedules and exhibits hereto and all agreements, instruments and documents relating hereto, including, without limitation, (a) consents, waivers and modifications that may hereafter be executed and (b) financial statements, certificates and other information previously or hereafter furnished to any party hereto, may be reproduced by such party by any photographic, photostatic, microfilm, micro-card, miniature photographic or other similar process, and such party may destroy any original documents so reproduced. To the extent permitted by law, any such reproduction shall be as admissible in evidence as the original itself in any judicial or administrative proceeding (whether or not the original is in existence and whether or not such reproduction was made by such party in the regular course of business) and any enlargement, facsimile or further reproduction of such reproduction likewise is admissible in evidence.
          
12.5 Counterparts
          This Agreement and any amendments, waivers, consents or supplements hereto may be executed in any number of counterparts (or upon separate signature pages bound together into one or more counterparts), each of which when so executed shall be deemed to be an original, and all of which counterparts, taken together, shall constitute one and the same instrument.
          
12.6 No Waiver
          No failure on the part of any party hereto to exercise, and no delay by any party hereto in exercising, any of its rights, powers, remedies or privileges under this Agreement or provided at Law, in equity or otherwise shall impair, prejudice or constitute a waiver of any such right, power, remedy or privilege or be construed as a waiver of any breach hereof or default hereunder or as an acquiescence therein nor shall any single or partial exercise of any such right, power, remedy or privilege preclude any other or further exercise thereof by it or the exercise of any other right, power, remedy or privilege by it. No notice to or demand on any party hereto in any case shall, unless otherwise required under this Agreement, entitle such party to any other or further notice or demand in similar or other circumstances or constitute a waiver of the rights of any party hereto to any other or further action in any circumstances without notice or demand.
          
12.7 Notices
          Unless otherwise expressly permitted by the terms hereof, all notices, requests, demands, authorizations, directions, consents, waivers and other communications required or permitted to be made, given, furnished or filed hereunder shall be in writing in the English language (it being understood that the specification of a writing in certain instances and not in others does not imply an intention that a writing is not required as to the latter), shall refer specifically to this Agreement or other applicable Operative Agreement, and shall be personally delivered, sent by facsimile or telecommunication transmission (which in either case provides written confirmation to the sender of its delivery), sent by registered mail or certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, or sent by overnight courier service, in each case to the respective address, or facsimile number set forth for such party in Schedule 1, or to such other
 
address, facsimile or other number as each party hereto may hereafter specify by notice to the other parties hereto. Each such notice, request, demand, authorization, direction, consent, waiver or other communication shall be effective when received or, if made, given, furnished or filed (a) by facsimile or telecommunication transmission, when confirmed, or (b) by registered or certified mail, three Business Days after being deposited, properly addressed, with the U.S. Postal Service.
          
12.8 GOVERNING LAW; SUBMISSION TO JURISDICTION; VENUE
          
(a) THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
          
(b) EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY AGREES, ACCEPTS AND SUBMITS ITSELF TO THE NON-EXCLUSIVE JURISDICTION OF THE COURTS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK IN THE CITY AND COUNTY OF NEW YORK AND OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, IN CONNECTION WITH ANY LEGAL ACTION, SUIT OR PROCEEDING WITH RESPECT TO ANY MATTER RELATING TO OR ARISING OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THIS AGREEMENT.
          
(c) EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY CONSENTS AND AGREES TO THE SERVICE OF ANY AND ALL LEGAL PROCESS, SUMMONS, NOTICES AND DOCUMENTS OF ANY OF THE AFOREMENTIONED COURTS IN ANY SUCH SUIT, ACTION OR PROCEEDING MAY BE MADE BY MAILING COPIES THEREOF BY REGISTERED OR CERTIFIED MAIL, POSTAGE PREPAID, AT THE ADDRESS SET FORTH PURSUANT TO SECTION 12.7. EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY AGREES THAT SERVICE UPON IT, OR ANY OF ITS AGENTS, IN EACH CASE IN ACCORDANCE WITH THIS SECTION 12.8(c), SHALL CONSTITUTE VALID AND EFFECTIVE PERSONAL SERVICE UPON SUCH PARTY, AND EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY AGREES THAT THE FAILURE OF ANY OF ITS AGENTS TO GIVE ANY NOTICE OF SUCH SERVICE TO ANY SUCH PARTY SHALL NOT IMPAIR OR AFFECT IN ANY WAY THE VALIDITY OF SUCH SERVICE ON SUCH PARTY OR ANY JUDGMENT RENDERED IN ANY ACTION OR PROCEEDING BASED THEREON.
          
(d) EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY IRREVOCABLY WAIVES, TO THE EXTENT PERMITTED BY APPLICABLE LAW, AND AGREES NOT TO ASSERT, BY WAY OF MOTION, AS A DEFENSE, OR OTHERWISE, IN ANY LEGAL ACTION OR PROCEEDING BROUGHT HEREUNDER IN ANY OF THE ABOVE-NAMED COURTS, THAT SUCH ACTION OR PROCEEDING IS BROUGHT IN AN INCONVENIENT FORUM, THAT VENUE FOR THE ACTION OR PROCEEDING IS IMPROPER OR THAT THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY OTHER OPERATIVE AGREEMENT MAY NOT BE ENFORCED IN OR BY SUCH COURTS.
          
(e) EACH PARTY HERETO HEREBY WAIVES ITS RIGHTS TO A JURY TRIAL OF ANY CLAIM OR CAUSE OF ACTION IN ANY COURT IN ANY
 
JURISDICTION BASED UPON OR ARISING OUT OF OR RELATING TO THIS AGREEMENT.
          
12.9 Third Party Beneficiary
          This Agreement is not intended to, and shall not, provide any person not a party hereto (other than the Indenture Indemnitees, each of which is an intended third party beneficiary with respect to the provisions of Section 8.1 (and, in the case of the Tax Indemnitees, Section 8.3) and the persons referred to in Section 6.4.6, which are intended third party beneficiaries with respect to such Section) with any rights of any nature whatsoever against any of the parties hereto and no person not a party hereto (other than the Indenture Indemnitees, with respect to the provisions of Section 8.1 (and, in the case of the Tax Indemnitees, Section 8.3), and the persons referred to in Section 6.4.6 with respect to the provisions of such Section) shall have any right, power or privilege in respect of any party hereto, or have any benefit or interest, arising out of this Agreement.
          
12.10 Entire Agreement
          This Agreement, together with the other Operative Agreements, on and as of the date hereof, constitutes the entire agreement of the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof, and all prior or contemporaneous understandings or agreements, whether written or oral, among any of the parties hereto with respect to such subject matter are hereby superseded in their entireties.
          
12.11 Further Assurances
          Each party hereto shall execute, acknowledge and deliver or shall cause to be executed, acknowledged and delivered, all such further agreements, instruments, certificates or documents, and shall do and cause to be done such further acts and things, in any case, as any other party hereto shall reasonably request in connection with the administration of, or to carry out more effectually the purposes of, or to better assure and confirm into such other party the rights and benefits to be provided under this Agreement and the other Operative Agreements.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the parties has caused this Participation Agreement to be duly executed and delivered as of the day and year first above written.
 
 
SCHEDULE 1
 
SCHEDULE 2
 
SCHEDULE 3
 
SCHEDULE 4

 
Exhibit 4.11.1
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
          INTERCREDITOR AGREEMENT dated as of October 3, 2007, among WILMINGTON TRUST COMPANY, a Delaware corporation (""), not in its individual capacity but solely as Trustee of each Trust (each as defined below); BNP PARIBAS, a societe anonym organized under the laws of France acting through its New York branch, as Liquidity Provider (the ""); and WILMINGTON TRUST COMPANY, not in its individual capacity except as expressly set forth herein, but solely as Subordination Agent and trustee hereunder (in such capacity, together with any successor appointed pursuant to Article VIII hereof, the "").
WTC
Liquidity Provider
Subordination Agent
          WHEREAS, all capitalized terms used herein shall have the respective meanings referred to in Article I hereof;
          WHEREAS, pursuant to the Indentures covering 16 Boeing 737-700 aircraft, owned by Southwest, Southwest will issue on a recourse basis up to (and including) two series of Equipment Notes, the proceeds of which are intended to be used for general corporate purposes;
          WHEREAS, pursuant to the Participation Agreements, each Trust will acquire Equipment Notes having an interest rate equal to the interest rate applicable to the Certificates to be issued by such Trust;
          WHEREAS, pursuant to each Trust Agreement, the Trust created thereby proposes to issue a single class of Certificates (a "") bearing the interest rate and having the final distribution date described in such Trust Agreement on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth therein;
Class
          WHEREAS, pursuant to the Underwriting Agreement, the Underwriters propose to purchase the Class A Certificates issued by the Class A Trust and the Class B Certificates issued by the Class B Trust in the aggregate face amount set forth opposite the name of such Trust on Schedule I thereto on the terms and subject to the conditions set forth therein;
          WHEREAS, the Liquidity Provider proposes to enter into a revolving credit agreement relating to the Class A Certificates with the Subordination Agent, as agent for the Trustee of the Class A Trust for the benefit of the Certificateholders of such Trust; and
          WHEREAS, it is a condition precedent to the obligations of the Underwriters under the Underwriting Agreement that the Subordination Agent, the Trustees and the Liquidity Provider agree to the terms of subordination set forth in this Agreement in respect of each Class of Certificates, and the Subordination Agent, the Trustees and the Liquidity Provider, by entering into this Agreement, hereby acknowledge and agree to such terms of subordination and the other provisions of this Agreement.
          NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual agreements herein contained, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and adequacy of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as follows:
 
          SECTION 1.1. . For all purposes of this Agreement, except as otherwise expressly provided or unless the context otherwise requires:
Definitions
     (1) the terms used herein that are defined in this Article have the meanings assigned to them in this Article, and include the plural as well as the singular;
     (2) all references in this Agreement to designated "Articles", "Sections" and other subdivisions are to the designated Articles, Sections and other subdivisions of this Agreement;
     (3) the words "herein", "hereof" and "hereunder" and other words of similar import refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular Article, Section or other subdivision; and
     (4) the term "including" means "including without limitation".
          "" means, with respect to the amounts payable in respect of the Equipment Notes issued under any Indenture, such amounts becoming immediately due and payable by declaration or otherwise. "", "" and "" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Acceleration
Accelerate
Accelerated
Accelerating
          "" means, in respect of any Equipment Note: (i) the disposition of the Collateral (as defined in the Indenture pursuant to which such Equipment Note was issued) securing such Equipment Note, (ii) the occurrence of the mandatory redemption date for such Equipment Note following an Event of Loss (as defined in such Indenture) with respect to the Aircraft which secured such Equipment Note or (iii) the sale of such Equipment Note.
Actual Disposition Event
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 9.1(d).
Additional Certificateholders
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 9.1(d).
Additional Certificates
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 9.1(d).
Additional Equipment Notes
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 9.1(d).
Additional Trust
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 9.1(d).
Additional Trust Agreement
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 9.1(d).
Additional Trustee
          "" has the meaning specified in clause "first" of Section 3.2.
Administration Expenses
          "", with respect to the Liquidity Facility, means any Advance as defined thereunder.
Advance
 
          "" means, with respect to any Person, any other Person directly or indirectly controlling, controlled by or under common control with such Person. For the purposes of this definition, "control" means the power, directly or indirectly, to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of such Person whether through the ownership of voting securities or by contract or otherwise; and the terms "controlling" and "controlled" have meanings correlative to the foregoing.
Affiliate
          "" means, with respect to each Indenture, the "Aircraft" referred to therein.
Aircraft
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 4.1(a)(iv).
Appraisal
          "" of any Aircraft means the lower of the average and the median of the three most recent Post-Default Appraisals of such Aircraft.
Appraised Current Market Value
          "" means Aircraft Information Services, Inc., BK Associates, Inc. and BACK Aviation Solutions or, so long as the Person entitled or required hereunder to select such Appraiser acts reasonably, any other nationally recognized appraiser reasonably satisfactory to the Subordination Agent and the Controlling Party.
Appraisers
          "" means, with respect to the Liquidity Facility on any date, the Maximum Available Commitment (as defined therein) on such date.
Available Amount
          "" means the United States Bankruptcy Code, 11 U.S.C. Sections 101 .
Bankruptcy Code
et seq
          "" means the Pass Through Trust Agreement dated as of July 1, 2005 between Southwest and WTC, not in its individual capacity, except as otherwise expressly provided therein, but solely as trustee.
Basic Agreement
          "" means any day other than a Saturday or Sunday or a day on which commercial banks are required or authorized to close in Dallas, Texas, New York, New York, or, so long as any Certificate is outstanding, the city and state in which any Trustee, the Subordination Agent or any Loan Trustee maintains its Corporate Trust Office and that, solely with respect to the making and repayment of Advances under the Liquidity Facility, also is a "Business Day" as defined therein.
Business Day
          "" means an Eligible Deposit Account in the name of the Subordination Agent maintained at an Eligible Institution, which shall be the Subordination Agent if it shall so qualify, into which all amounts drawn under the Liquidity Facility pursuant to Section 3.5(c), 3.5(d), 3.5(i) or 3.5(k) shall be deposited.
Cash Collateral Account
          "" means a Class A Certificate or a Class B Certificate, as applicable.
Certificate
          "" means that a Southwest Bankruptcy Event has occurred and is continuing and the following events have occurred: (A) (i) the 60-Day Period has expired, and (ii) Southwest has not entered into one or more agreements under Section 1110(a)(2)(A) of the Bankruptcy Code to perform all of its obligations under all of the
Certificate Buy-Out Event
 
Indentures or, if it has entered into such agreements, has at any time failed to cure any default under any of the Indentures in accordance with Section 1110(a)(2)(B) of the Bankruptcy Code; or (B) if prior to the expiry of the 60-Day Period, Southwest shall have abandoned any Aircraft.
          "" means any holder of one or more Certificates.
Certificateholder
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the preliminary statements to this Agreement.
Class
          "" means, at any time, any holder of one or more Class A Certificates.
Class A Certificateholder
          "" means the certificates issued by the Class A Trust, substantially in the form of Exhibit A to the Class A Trust Agreement, and authenticated by the Class A Trustee, representing fractional undivided interests in the Class A Trust, and any certificates issued in exchange therefor or replacement thereof pursuant to the terms of the Class A Trust Agreement.
Class A Certificates
          "" means the Southwest Airlines Pass Through Trust 2007-1A created and administered pursuant to the Class A Trust Agreement.
Class A Trust
          "" means the Basic Agreement, as supplemented by the Supplement No. 2007-1A thereto dated as of the date hereof, governing the creation and administration of the Southwest Airlines Pass Through Trust 2007-1A and the issuance of the Class A Certificates, as the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with its terms.
Class A Trust Agreement
          "" means WTC, not in its individual capacity except as expressly set forth in the Class A Trust Agreement, but solely as trustee under the Class A Trust Agreement, together with any successor trustee appointed pursuant thereto.
Class A Trustee
          "" means, as of any Current Distribution Date: (I) any interest of the type described in clause (II) of this definition accruing prior to the immediately preceding Distribution Date which remains unpaid and (II) interest at the Stated Interest Rate for the Class B Certificates (A) for the number of days during the period commencing on, and including, the immediately preceding Distribution Date (or, if the Current Distribution Date is the first Distribution Date, the Closing Date) and ending on, but excluding the Current Distribution Date, on the Preferred B Pool Balance on such Current Distribution Date and (B) on the principal amount calculated pursuant to clauses (B)(i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) of the definition of Preferred B Pool Balance for each Series B Equipment Note with respect to which a disposition, distribution, sale or Deemed Disposition Event has occurred since the immediately preceding Distribution Date (but only if no such event has previously occurred with respect to such Series B Equipment Note), for each day during the period, for each such Series B Equipment Note, commencing on, and including, the immediately preceding Distribution Date (or, if the Current Distribution Date is the first Distribution Date, the Closing Date) and ending on, but excluding the date of disposition, distribution, sale or Deemed Disposition Event with respect to such Series B Equipment Note, Aircraft or Collateral, as the case may be.
Class B Adjusted Interest
 
          """ means, at any time, any holder of one or more Class B Certificates.
Class B Certificateholder
          "" means the certificates issued by the Class B Trust, substantially in the form of Exhibit A to the Class B Trust Agreement, and authenticated by the Class B Trustee, representing fractional undivided interests in the Class B Trust, and any certificates issued in exchange therefor or replacement thereof pursuant to the terms of the Class B Trust Agreement.
Class B Certificates
          "" means the Southwest Airlines Pass Through Trust 2007-1B created and administered pursuant to the Class B Trust Agreement.
Class B Trust
          "" means the Basic Agreement, as supplemented by the Supplement No. 2007-1B thereto dated as of the date hereof, governing the creation and administration of the Southwest Airlines Pass Through Trust 2007-1B and the issuance of the Class B Certificates, as the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with its terms.
Class B Trust Agreement
          "" means WTC, not in its individual capacity except as expressly set forth in the Class B Trust Agreement, but solely as trustee under the Class B Trust Agreement, together with any successor trustee appointed pursuant thereto.
Class B Trustee
          "" means October 3, 2007.
Closing Date
          "" means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and the Treasury Regulations promulgated thereunder.
Code
          "" has the meaning specified in the Indentures.
Collateral
          "" means the Eligible Deposit Account established by the Subordination Agent pursuant to Section 2.2(a)(i) which the Subordination Agent shall make deposits in and withdrawals from in accordance with this Agreement.
Collection Account
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 3.5(d).
Consent Period
          "" means the Person entitled to act as such pursuant to the terms of Section 2.6.
Controlling Party
          "" means, with respect to any Trustee, the Subordination Agent or any Loan Trustee, the office of such Person in the city at which, at any particular time, its corporate trust business shall be principally administered.
Corporate Trust Office
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.7(e).
Cross-Collateralization Period
          "" means a Distribution Date specified as a reference date for calculating the Expected Distributions with respect to the Certificates of any Trust as of such Distribution Date.
Current Distribution Date
 
          "" means, in respect of any Equipment Note, the continuation of an Indenture Default in respect of such Equipment Note without an Actual Disposition Event occurring in respect of such Equipment Note for a period of five years from the date of the occurrence of such Indenture Default.
Deemed Disposition Event
          "" means the Subordination Agent Representatives, the Trustee Representatives and the Provider Representatives identified under Section 2.5.
Designated Representatives
          "" means a Regular Distribution Date or a Special Distribution Date.
Distribution Date
          "" or "" means United States dollars.
Dollars
$
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 3.5(c).
Downgrade Drawing
          "" with respect to the Liquidity Facility, has the meaning assigned to such term therein.
Downgrade Event
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 3.5(c).
Downgraded Facility
          "" means an Interest Drawing, a Final Drawing, a Non-Extension Drawing, a Special Termination Drawing, or a Downgrade Drawing, as the case may be.
Drawing
          "" means either (a) a segregated account with an Eligible Institution or (b) a segregated trust account with the corporate trust department of a depository institution organized under the laws of the United States of America or any one of the states thereof or the District of Columbia (or any U.S. branch of a foreign bank), having corporate trust powers and acting as trustee for funds deposited in such account, so long as any of the securities of such depository institution has a long-term unsecured debt rating of at least A3 from Moody's and a long-term issuer credit rating of at least A- from Standard & Poor's. An Eligible Deposit Account may be maintained with the Liquidity Provider so long as the Liquidity Provider is an Eligible Institution; that such Liquidity Provider shall have waived all rights of set-off and counterclaim with respect to such account.
Eligible Deposit Account
provided
          "" means (a) the corporate trust department of the Subordination Agent or any Trustee, as applicable, or (b) a depository institution organized under the laws of the United States of America or any one of the states thereof or the District of Columbia (or any U.S. branch of a foreign bank), which has a long-term unsecured debt rating or issuer credit rating, as the case may be, from each Rating Agency of at least A-/A-3 or its equivalent.
Eligible Institution
          "" means (a) investments in obligations of, or guaranteed by, the United States government having maturities no later than 90 days following the date of such investment, (b) investments in open market commercial paper of any corporation incorporated under the laws of the United States of America or any state thereof with a short-term unsecured debt rating issued by Moody's of at least P-1 and a short-term issuer credit rating issued by Standard & Poor's of at least A-1 having maturities no later than 90 days following the date of such investment or (c) investments in negotiable certificates of deposit, time deposits, banker's
Eligible Investments
 
acceptances, commercial paper or other direct obligations of, or obligations guaranteed by, commercial banks organized under the laws of the United States or of any political subdivision thereof (or any U.S. branch of a foreign bank) with a short-term unsecured debt rating by Moody's of at least P-1 and a short-term issuer credit rating by Standard & Poor's of at least A-1, having maturities no later than 90 days following the date of such investment; , , that (x) all Eligible Investments that are bank obligations shall be denominated in U.S. dollars; and (y) the aggregate amount of Eligible Investments at any one time that are bank obligations issued by any one bank shall not be in excess of 5% of such bank's capital surplus; that any investment of the types described in clauses (a), (b) and (c) above may be made through a repurchase agreement in commercially reasonable form with a bank or other financial institution qualifying as an Eligible Institution so long as such investment is held by a third party custodian also qualifying as an Eligible Institution; , , that in the case of any Eligible Investment issued by a domestic branch of a foreign bank, the income from such investment shall be from sources within the United States for purposes of the Code. Notwithstanding the foregoing, no investment of the types described in clause (b) above which is issued or guaranteed by Southwest or any of its Affiliates, and no investment in the obligations of any one bank in excess of $10,000,000, shall be an Eligible Investment unless a Ratings Confirmation shall have been received with respect to the making of such investment.
provided
however
provided
further
provided
further
however
          "" means the occurrence and continuation of (i) a Certificate Buy-Out Event or (ii) an Indenture Default under any Indenture that has continued for a period of five years without an Actual Disposition Event occurring with respect to the Equipment Notes issued under such Indenture.
Equipment Note Buy-Out Event
          "" means a Special Payment on account of the redemption, purchase or prepayment of all of the Equipment Notes.
Equipment Note Special Payment
          "" means, at any time, the Series A Equipment Notes and the Series B Equipment Notes, collectively, and in each case, any Equipment Notes issued in exchange therefor or replacement thereof pursuant to the terms of the Indentures.
Equipment Notes
          "" means, with respect to an Indenture, the amounts payable under clauses (i) through (vi) of the third paragraph of Section 2.02 of such Indenture.
Excess Liquidity Obligations
          "" means, with respect to the Certificates of any Trust on any Current Distribution Date, the difference between (A) the Pool Balance of such Certificates as of the immediately preceding Distribution Date (or, if the Current Distribution Date is the first Distribution Date, the original aggregate face amount of Certificates of such Trust) and (B) the Pool Balance of such Certificates as of the Current Distribution Date calculated on the basis that (i) the principal of the Non-Performing Equipment Notes held in such Trust has been paid in full and such payments have been distributed to the holders of such Certificates, (ii) the principal of the Performing Equipment Notes held in such Trust has been paid when due (without giving effect to any Acceleration of Performing Equipment Notes) and such payments have been distributed to the holders of such Certificates and (iii) the principal of any Equipment Notes formerly held in such Trust that have been sold pursuant to the terms hereof has been paid in full and such payments have been distributed to the holders of such Certificates. For purposes of calculating Expected Distributions with respect to the Certificates of any Trust, any Premium
Expected Distributions
 
paid on the Equipment Notes held in such Trust which has not been distributed to the Certificateholders of such Trust (other than such Premium or a portion thereof applied to the payment of interest on the Certificates of such Trust or the reduction of the Pool Balance of such Trust) shall be added to the amount of such Expected Distributions.
          "" has the meaning set forth in the Liquidity Facility.
Expiry Date
          "" means the office of the Liquidity Provider, presently located at 787 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10019, or such other office as the Liquidity Provider from time to time shall notify the Class A Trustee as its "Facility Office" under the Liquidity Facility; that the Liquidity Provider shall not change its Facility Office to another Facility Office outside the United States of America except in accordance with Section 3.01, 3.02 or 3.03 of the Liquidity Facility.
Facility Office
provided
          "" means, collectively, (i) the Fee Letter dated as of the date hereof between the Liquidity Provider, the Subordination Agent and Southwest with respect to the initial Liquidity Facility and (ii) any fee letter entered into between the Subordination Agent and any Replacement Liquidity Provider in respect of such Liquidity Facility.
Fee Letters
          "" means, with respect to the Certificates of any Trust on any Distribution Date, the sum of (x) the aggregate amount of all accrued and unpaid interest on such Certificates and (y) the Pool Balance of such Certificates as of the immediately preceding Distribution Date. For purposes of calculating Final Distributions with respect to the Certificates of any Trust, any Premium paid on the Equipment Notes held in such Trust which has not been distributed to the Certificateholders of such Trust (other than such Premium or a portion thereof applied to the payment of interest on the Certificates of such Trust or the reduction of the Pool Balance of such Trust) shall be added to the amount of such Final Distributions.
Final Distributions
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.5(i).
Final Drawing
          "" means (i) with respect to the Class A Certificates February 1, 2024, and (ii) with respect to the Class B Certificates, August 1, 2022.
Final Legal Distribution Date
          "" means, with respect to the Equipment Notes, each of the separate trust indenture and mortgages described on Schedule I to this Agreement, in each case as the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with its terms.
Indenture
          "" means, with respect to any Indenture, any Event of Default (as such term is defined in such Indenture) thereunder.
Indenture Default
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 3.5(a).
Interest Drawing
          "" means, with respect to the Liquidity Facility, each date on which interest is due and payable thereunder on a Downgrade Drawing, Non-Extension Drawing, a Special Termination Drawing or Final Drawing thereunder, other than any such date on which interest is due and payable under such Liquidity Facility only on an Applied Provider
Interest Payment Date
 
Advance or Applied Special Termination Advance (as such terms are defined in such Liquidity Facility).
          "" means investment earnings on funds on deposit in the Trust Accounts net of losses and investment expenses of the Subordination Agent in making such investments.
Investment Earnings
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.7(b).
Junior Additional Certificateholder
          "" means any mortgage, pledge, lien, charge, claim, disposition of title, encumbrance, lease, sublease, sub-sublease or security interest of any kind, including, without limitation, any thereof arising under any conditional sales or other title retention agreement.
Lien
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the Liquidity Facility.
Liquidity Event of Default
          "" means all Liquidity Obligations other than (i) the principal amount of any Drawings under the Liquidity Facility and (ii) any interest accrued on any Liquidity Obligations.
Liquidity Expenses
          "" means, initially, the Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of the date hereof, between the Subordination Agent, as agent and trustee for the Class A Trust, and the initial Liquidity Provider, and from and after the replacement of such Revolving Credit Agreement pursuant hereto, the Replacement Liquidity Facility therefor, if any, in each case as amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with its terms.
Liquidity Facility
          "" means all principal, interest, fees and other amounts owing to the Liquidity Provider under the Liquidity Facility, Section 8.1 of the Participation Agreements or the Fee Letters.
Liquidity Obligations
          "" means BNP Paribas or, if applicable, any Replacement Liquidity Provider which has issued a Replacement Liquidity Facility to replace the Liquidity Facility pursuant to Section 3.5(e).
Liquidity Provider
          "" means, with respect to any Indenture, the mortgagee thereunder.
Loan Trustee
          "" means, with respect to any Aircraft or the Equipment Notes issued in respect of such Aircraft, at any time, the lesser of (1) in the case of the sale of an Aircraft, 75%, or in the case of the sale of related Equipment Notes, 85%, of the Appraised Current Market Value of such Aircraft and (2) the sum of the aggregate Note Target Price of such Equipment Notes and an amount equal to the Excess Liquidity Obligations in respect of the Indenture under which such Equipment Notes were issued.
Minimum Sale Price
          "" means Moody's Investors Service, Inc.
Moody's
          "" means, at any time, any Trustee or Liquidity Provider which is not the Controlling Party at such time.
Non-Controlling Party
 
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 3.5(d).
Non-Extended Facility
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 3.5(d).
Non-Extension Drawing
          "" means an Equipment Note that is not a Performing Equipment Note.
Non-Performing Equipment Note
          "" means, for any Equipment Note issued under any Indenture, (i) the aggregate outstanding principal amount of such Equipment Note, plus (ii) the accrued and unpaid interest thereon, together with all other sums owing on or in respect of such Equipment Note under such Indenture (including, without limitation, enforcement costs incurred by the Subordination Agent in respect of such Equipment Note).
Note Target Price
          "" of any Person means a certification signed by a Responsible Officer of such Person.
Officer's Certificate
          "" means this Agreement, the Liquidity Facility, the Indentures, the Trust Agreements, the Underwriting Agreement, the Participation Agreements, the Fee Letters, the Equipment Notes and the Certificates, together with all exhibits and schedules included with any of the foregoing.
Operative Agreements
          "" means, when used with respect to each Class of Certificates, as of the date of determination, all Certificates of such Class theretofore authenticated and delivered under the related Trust Agreement, except:
Outstanding
     (i) Certificates of such Class theretofore canceled by the Registrar (as defined in such Trust Agreement) or delivered to the Trustee thereunder or such Registrar for cancellation;
     (ii) Certificates of such Class for which money in the full amount required to make the final distribution with respect to such Certificates pursuant to Section 11.01 of such Trust Agreement has been theretofore deposited with the related Trustee in trust for the holders of such Certificates as provided in Section 4.01 of such Trust Agreement pending distribution of such money to such Certificateholders pursuant to such final distribution payment; and
     (iii) Certificates of such Class in exchange for or in lieu of which other Certificates have been authenticated and delivered pursuant to such Trust Agreement;
, , that in determining whether the holders of the requisite Outstanding amount of such Certificates have given any request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver hereunder, any Certificates owned by Southwest or any of its Affiliates shall be disregarded and deemed not to be Outstanding, except that, in determining whether such Trustee shall be protected in relying upon any such request, demand, authorization, direction, notice, consent or waiver, only Certificates that such Trustee knows to be so owned shall be so disregarded. Certificates so owned that have been pledged in good faith may be regarded as Outstanding if the pledgee establishes to the satisfaction of the applicable Trustee the pledgee's
provided
however
 
right so to act with respect to such Certificates and that the pledgee is not Southwest or any of its Affiliates.
          "" means any Scheduled Payment which is not in fact received by the Subordination Agent within ten Business Days after the Scheduled Payment Date relating thereto.
Overdue Scheduled Payment
          "" means, with respect to each Indenture, the "Participation Agreement" referred to therein.
Participation Agreement
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.4(c).
Payees
          "" means an Equipment Note with respect to which no payment default has occurred and is continuing (without giving effect to any Acceleration); that in the event of a bankruptcy proceeding under the Bankruptcy Code in which Southwest is a debtor any payment default existing during the 60-Day Period (or such longer period as may apply under Section 1110(b) of the Bankruptcy Code or as may apply for the cure of such payment default under Section 1110(a)(2)(B) of the Bankruptcy Code) shall not be taken into consideration until the expiration of the applicable period.
Performing Equipment Note
provided
          "" means any time that less than 65% of the then aggregate outstanding principal amount of all Equipment Notes (other than any Additional Equipment Notes issued under any Indenture) are Performing Equipment Notes.
Performing Note Deficiency
          "" means any individual, corporation, partnership, joint venture, association, limited liability company, joint-stock company, trust, trustee, unincorporated organization or government or any agency or political subdivision thereof.
Person
          "" means, with respect to each Trust or the Certificates issued by any Trust, as of any date, (i) the original aggregate face amount of the Certificates of such Trust (ii) the aggregate amount of all payments made as of such date in respect of the Certificates of such Trust other than payments made in respect of interest or Premium thereon or reimbursement of any costs and expenses in connection therewith. The Pool Balance for each Trust or for the Certificates issued by any Trust as of any Distribution Date shall be computed after giving effect to any payment of principal of the Equipment Notes or payment with respect to other Trust Property held in such Trust and the distribution thereof to be made on that date.
Pool Balance
less
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 4.1(a)(iv).
Post-Default Appraisal
          "" means, as of any date, the excess of (A) the Pool Balance of the Class B Certificates as of the immediately preceding Distribution Date (or, if such date is on or before the first Distribution Date, the original aggregate face amount of the Class B Certificates) (after giving effect to distributions made on such date) over (B) the sum of (i) the outstanding principal amount of each Series B Equipment Note that remains unpaid as of such date subsequent to the disposition of the Collateral under the Indenture pursuant to which such Series B Equipment Note was issued and after giving effect to any distributions of the proceeds of such disposition applied under such Indenture to the payment of each such Series B Equipment Note, (ii) the outstanding principal amount of each Series B Equipment Note that
Preferred B Pool Balance
 
remains unpaid as of such date subsequent to the scheduled date of mandatory redemption of such Series B Equipment Note following an Event of Loss (as defined in such Indenture) with respect to the Aircraft which secured such Series B Equipment Note and after giving effect to the distributions of any proceeds in respect of such Event of Loss applied under such Indenture to the payment of each such Series B Equipment Note, (iii) the excess, if any, of (x) the outstanding amount of principal and interest as of the date of sale of each Series B Equipment Note previously sold over (y) the purchase price received with respect to the sale of such Series B Equipment Note (net of any applicable costs and expenses of sale) and (iv) the outstanding principal amount of any Series B Equipment Note with respect to which a Deemed Disposition Event has occurred; , , that if more than one of the clauses (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv) is applicable to any one Series B Equipment Note, only the amount determined pursuant to the clause that first became applicable shall be counted with respect to such Series B Equipment Note.
provided
however
          "" means any "Make-Whole Amount" as such term is defined in any Indenture.
Premium
          "" means any suit in equity, action at law or other judicial or administrative proceeding.
Proceeding
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.5(c).
Provider Incumbency Certificate
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.5(c).
Provider Representatives
          "" means, with respect to each Trust Agreement, the failure to pay within 10 Business Days of the due date thereof: (i) the outstanding Pool Balance of the applicable Class of Certificates on the Final Legal Distribution Date for such Class or (ii) interest due on such Certificates on any Distribution Date (unless, in the case of the Class A Trust Agreement, the Subordination Agent shall have made an Interest Drawing or a withdrawal from the Cash Collateral Account with respect thereto in an aggregate amount sufficient to pay such interest and shall have distributed such amount to the Trustee entitled thereto).
PTC Event of Default
          "" means, collectively, at any time, each nationally recognized rating agency which shall have been requested to rate the Certificates and which shall then be rating the Certificates. The initial Rating Agencies will be Moody's and Standard & Poor's.
Rating Agencies
          "" means, with respect to any action proposed to be taken, a written confirmation from each of the Rating Agencies that such action would not result in (i) a reduction of the rating for any Class of Certificates below the then current rating for such Class of Certificates or (ii) a withdrawal or suspension of the rating of any Class of Certificates.
Ratings Confirmation
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 9.1(c).
Refinancing Certificateholders
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 9.1(c).
Refinancing Certificates
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 9.1(c).
Refinancing Equipment Notes
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 9.1(c).
Refinancing Trust Agreement
 
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 9.1(c).
Refinancing Trust
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 9.1(c).
Refinancing Trustee
          "" means each February 1 and August 1, commencing on February 1, 2008; , , that, if any such day shall not be a Business Day, the related distribution shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day without additional interest.
Regular Distribution Dates
provided
however
          "" means, for the Liquidity Facility, an irrevocable revolving credit agreement (or agreements) in substantially the form of the replaced Liquidity Facility, including reinstatement provisions, or in such other form (which may include a letter of credit) as shall permit the Rating Agencies to confirm in writing their respective ratings then in effect for the Class A Certificates (before downgrading of such ratings, if any, as a result of the downgrading of the Liquidity Provider), in a face amount (or in an aggregate face amount) equal to the then Required Amount and issued by a Person (or Persons) having a short-term rating or short-term issuer credit rating, as the case may be, issued by both Rating Agencies which is equal to or higher than the Threshold Rating. Without limitation of the form that a Replacement Liquidity Facility otherwise may have pursuant to the preceding sentence, a Replacement Liquidity Facility may have a stated expiration date earlier than 15 days after the Final Legal Distribution Date of the Class A Certificates so long as such Replacement Liquidity Facility provides for a Non-Extension Drawing as contemplated by Section 3.5(d) hereof.
Replacement Liquidity Facility
          "" means a Person (or Persons) who issues a Replacement Liquidity Facility.
Replacement Liquidity Provider
          "" means with respect to the Liquidity Facility or Cash Collateral Account, for any day, the sum of the aggregate amount of interest, calculated at the rate per annum equal to the Stated Interest Rate for the Class A Certificates, that would be payable on the Class A Certificates on each of the three successive Regular Distribution Dates immediately following such day or, if such day is a Regular Distribution Date, on such day and the succeeding two Regular Distribution Dates, in each case calculated on the basis of the Pool Balance of the Class A Certificates on such date and without regard to expected future payments of principal on such Class of Certificates.
Required Amount
          "" means (i) with respect to the Subordination Agent and each of the Trustees, any officer in the corporate trust administration department of the Subordination Agent or such Trustee or any other officer customarily performing functions similar to those performed by the Persons who at the time shall be such officers, respectively, or to whom any corporate trust matter is referred because of his knowledge of and familiarity with a particular subject and (ii) with respect to the Liquidity Provider, any authorized officer of the Liquidity Provider.
Responsible Officer
          "" means, with respect to any Equipment Note, (i) any payment of principal or interest on such Equipment Note (other than an Overdue Scheduled Payment) due from the obligor thereon, which payment represents the installment of principal at the stated maturity of such installment of principal on such Equipment Note, the payment of
Scheduled Payment
 
regularly scheduled interest accrued on the unpaid principal amount of such Equipment Note, or both or (ii) any payment of interest on the corresponding Class of Certificates with funds drawn under the Liquidity Facility or withdrawn from any Cash Collateral Account, which payment represents the payment of regularly scheduled interest accrued on the unpaid principal amount of the related Equipment Note; that any payment of principal of, Premium, if any, or interest resulting from the redemption or purchase of any Equipment Note shall not constitute a Scheduled Payment.
provided
          "" means, with respect to any Scheduled Payment, the date on which such Scheduled Payment is scheduled to be made.
Scheduled Payment Date
          "" means, with respect to any Special Distribution Date, a fraction, the numerator of which shall be the amount of principal of the applicable Series A Equipment Notes being redeemed, purchased or prepaid on such Special Distribution Date, and the denominator of which shall be the aggregate unpaid principal amount of all Series A Equipment Notes outstanding as of such Special Distribution Date.
Section 2.4 Fraction
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.7(b).
Senior Additional Certificateholder
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.7(b).
Senior Additional Equipment Notes
          "" means the Series A Equipment Notes issued pursuant to any Indenture by Southwest and authenticated by the Loan Trustee thereunder, and any such Equipment Notes issued in exchange therefor or replacement thereof pursuant to the terms of such Indenture.
Series A Equipment Notes
          "" means the Series B Equipment Notes issued pursuant to any Indenture by Southwest and authenticated by the Loan Trustee thereunder, and any such Equipment Notes issued in exchange therefor or replacement thereof pursuant to the terms of such Indenture.
Series B Equipment Notes
          "" means 60-day period specified in Section 1110(a)(2)(A) of the Bankruptcy Code.
60-Day Period
          "" means Southwest Airlines Co., a Texas corporation, and its successors and assigns.
Southwest
          "" means the occurrence and continuation of any of the following:
Southwest Bankruptcy Event
     (a) Southwest shall consent to the appointment of or the taking of possession by a receiver, trustee or liquidator of itself or of a substantial part of its property, or Southwest shall admit in writing its inability to pay its debts generally as they come due, or shall make a general assignment for the benefit of its creditors, or Southwest shall file a voluntary petition in bankruptcy or a voluntary petition or an answer seeking reorganization, liquidation or other relief in a case under any bankruptcy laws or other insolvency laws (as in effect at such time) or an answer admitting the material allegations of a petition filed against Southwest in any such case, or Southwest shall seek relief by
 
voluntary petition, answer or consent, under the provisions of any other bankruptcy or similar law providing for the reorganization or winding-up of corporations (as in effect at such time) or Southwest shall seek an agreement, composition, extension or adjustment with its creditors under such laws, or Southwest's board of directors shall adopt a resolution authorizing corporate action in furtherance of any of the foregoing; or
     (b) an order, judgment or decree shall be entered by any court of competent jurisdiction appointing, without the consent of Southwest, a receiver, trustee or liquidator of Southwest or of any substantial part of its property, or any substantial part of the property of Southwest shall be sequestered, or granting any other relief in respect of Southwest as a debtor under any bankruptcy laws or other insolvency laws (as in effect at such time), and any such order, judgment or decree of appointment or sequestration shall remain in force undismissed, unstayed and unvacated for a period of 90 days after the date of entry thereof; or
     (c) a petition against Southwest in a case under any bankruptcy laws or other insolvency laws (as in effect at such time) is filed and not withdrawn or dismissed within 90 days thereafter, or if, under the provisions of any law providing for reorganization or winding-up of corporations which may apply to Southwest, any court of competent jurisdiction assumes jurisdiction, custody or control of Southwest or of any substantial part of its property and such jurisdiction, custody or control remains in force unrelinquished, unstayed and unterminated for a period of 90 days.
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 9.1(a).
Southwest Provisions
          "" means, with respect to any Special Payment, the date chosen by the Subordination Agent pursuant to Section 2.4(a) for the distribution of such Special Payment in accordance with this Agreement, whether distributed pursuant to Section 2.4 or Section 3.2 hereof.
Special Distribution Date
          "" means any payment (other than a Scheduled Payment) in respect of, or any proceeds of, any Equipment Note or Collateral.
Special Payment
          "" means the Eligible Deposit Account created pursuant to Section 2.2(a)(ii) as a sub-account to the Collection Account.
Special Payments Account
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.5(k).
Special Termination Drawing
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the Liquidity Facility.
Special Termination Notice
          "" means Standard & Poor's Ratings Services, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies, Inc.
Standard & Poor's
          "" means the Maximum Commitment (as defined in the Liquidity Facility) of the Liquidity Provider thereunder.
Stated Amount
 
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 3.5(d).
Stated Expiration Date
          "" means (i) with respect to the Class A Certificates, 6.15% per annum and (ii) with respect to the Class B Certificates, 6.65% per annum.
Stated Interest Rate
          "" has the meaning assigned to it in the preliminary statements to this Agreement.
Subordination Agent
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.5(a).
Subordination Agent Incumbency Certificate
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.5(a).
Subordination Agent Representatives
          "" and "" mean any and all taxes, fees, levies, duties, tariffs, imposts, and other charges of any similar kind (together with any and all interest, penalties, loss, damage, liability, expense, additions to tax and additional amounts or costs incurred or imposed with respect thereto) imposed or otherwise assessed by the United States of America or by any state, local or foreign government (or any subdivision or agency thereof) or other taxing authority, including, without limitation: taxes or other charges on or with respect to income, franchises, windfall or other profits, gross receipts, property, sales, use, capital stock, payroll, employment, social security, workers' compensation, unemployment compensation, or net worth and similar charges; taxes or other charges in the nature of excise, withholding, ad valorem, stamp, transfer, value added, taxes on goods and services, gains taxes, license, registration and documentation fees, customs duties, tariffs, and similar charges.
Tax
Taxes
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the Liquidity Facility.
Termination Notice
          "" means the short-term rating of P-1 by Moody's and the short-term issuer credit rating of A-1+ by Standard & Poor's.
Threshold Rating
          "" means regulations, including proposed or temporary regulations, promulgated under the Code. References herein to specific provisions of proposed or temporary regulations shall include analogous provisions of final Treasury Regulations or other successor Treasury Regulations.
Treasury Regulations
          "" means (x) the occurrence of an Indenture Default under all of the Indentures resulting in a PTC Event of Default with respect to the most senior Class of Certificates then Outstanding, (y) the Acceleration of all of the outstanding Equipment Notes or (z) the occurrence of a Southwest Bankruptcy Event.
Triggering Event
          "" means either the Class A Trust or the Class B Trust.
Trust
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.2(a).
Trust Accounts
          "" means either the Class A Trust Agreement or the Class B Trust Agreement.
Trust Agreement
 
          "" with respect to any Trust, has the meaning set forth in the Trust Agreement for such Trust.
Trust Property
          "" means either the Class A Trustee or the Class B Trustee.
Trustee
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.5(b).
Trustee Incumbency Certificate
          "" has the meaning specified in Section 2.5(b).
Trustee Representatives
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the Liquidity Facility.
Unapplied Provider Advance
          "" means Morgan Stanley & Co. Incorporated, Citigroup Global Markets Inc., Comerica Securities, Inc., SG Americas Securities, LLC and UBS Securities LLC.
Underwriters
          "" means the Underwriting Agreement dated September 19, 2007 among the Underwriters and Southwest, relating to the purchase of the Certificates by the Underwriters, as the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with its terms.
Underwriting Agreement
          "" means (i) any Tax imposed on the net income, net worth or capital, any franchise Tax or similar doing business Tax of the Subordination Agent or the Trustee and (ii) any withholding Tax imposed by the United States (including, without limitation, any withholding Tax imposed by the United States which is imposed or increased as a result of the Subordination Agent's or the Trustee's failing to deliver to the Company any certificate or document necessary to establish that payments under this Agreement are exempt from withholding Tax).
Unindemnified Tax
          "" means, from the Subordination Agent, any Trustee or the Liquidity Provider, a written instrument executed by the Designated Representative of such Person. An invoice delivered by the Liquidity Provider pursuant to Section 3.1 in accordance with its normal invoicing procedures shall constitute Written Notice under such Section.
Written Notice
          "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recital of parties to this Agreement.
WTC
          SECTION 2.1. . (a) Each Trustee hereby acknowledges and agrees to the terms of subordination and distribution set forth in this Agreement in respect of each Class of Certificates and agrees to enforce such provisions and cause all payments in respect of the Equipment Notes held by the Subordination Agent and the Liquidity Provider to be applied in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. In addition, each Trustee hereby agrees to cause the Equipment Notes purchased by the related Trust to be registered in the name of the Subordination Agent or its
Agreement to Terms of Subordination; Payments from Monies Received Only
 
nominee, as agent and trustee for such Trustee, to be held in trust by the Subordination Agent solely for the purpose of facilitating the enforcement of the subordination and other provisions of this Agreement.
          (b) Except as otherwise expressly provided in the next succeeding sentence of this Section 2.1, all payments to be made by the Subordination Agent hereunder shall be made only from amounts received by it that constitute Scheduled Payments, Special Payments or payments under Section 8.1 of the Participation Agreements, and only to the extent that the Subordination Agent shall have received sufficient income or proceeds therefrom to enable it to make such payments in accordance with the terms hereof. Each of the Trustees and the Subordination Agent hereby agrees and, as provided in each Trust Agreement, each Certificateholder, by its acceptance of a Certificate and the Liquidity Provider, by entering into the Liquidity Facility, has agreed to look solely to such amounts to the extent available for distribution to it as provided in this Agreement and that none of the Trustees, Loan Trustees nor the Subordination Agent is personally liable to any of them for any amounts payable or any liability under this Agreement, any Trust Agreement, the Liquidity Facility or such Certificate, except (in the case of the Subordination Agent) as expressly provided herein or (in the case of the Trustees) as expressly provided in each Trust Agreement or (in the case of the Loan Trustees) as expressly provided in any Operative Agreement.
          SECTION 2.2. . (a) Upon the execution of this Agreement, the Subordination Agent shall establish and maintain in its name (i) the Collection Account as an Eligible Deposit Account, bearing a designation clearly indicating that the funds deposited therein are held in trust for the benefit of the Trustees, the Certificateholders and the Liquidity Provider and (ii) as a sub-account in the Collection Account, the Special Payments Account as an Eligible Deposit Account, bearing a designation clearly indicating that the funds deposited therein are held in trust for the benefit of the Trustees, the Certificateholders and the Liquidity Provider. The Subordination Agent shall establish and maintain the Cash Collateral Accounts pursuant to and under the circumstances set forth in Section 3.5(f) hereof. Upon such establishment and maintenance under Section 3.5(f) hereof, the Cash Collateral Accounts shall, together with the Collection Account, constitute the "" hereunder. Without limiting the foregoing, all monies credited to the Trust Accounts shall be, and shall remain, the property of the relevant Trust(s).
Trust Accounts
Trust Accounts
          (b) Funds on deposit in the Trust Accounts shall be invested and reinvested by the Subordination Agent in Eligible Investments selected by the Subordination Agent if such investments are reasonably available and have maturities no later than the earlier of (i) 90 days following the date of such investment and (ii) the Business Day immediately preceding the Regular Distribution Date or the date of the related distribution pursuant to Section 2.4 hereof, as the case may be, next following the date of such investment; , , that following the making of a Downgrade Drawing, a Non-Extension Drawing or a Special Termination Drawing under the Liquidity Facility, the Subordination Agent shall invest and reinvest such amounts in Eligible Investments at the direction of Southwest (or, if and to the extent so specified to the Subordination Agent by Southwest, the Liquidity Provider); , , that, notwithstanding the foregoing proviso, following the making of a Downgrade Drawing, a Non-Extension Drawing or a Special Termination Drawing under the initial Liquidity Facility, the Subordination Agent shall invest and reinvest the amounts in the Cash Collateral
provided
however
provided
further
however
 
Account in Eligible Investments pursuant to the written instructions of the Liquidity Provider funding such Drawing; , , that upon the occurrence and during the continuation of a Triggering Event, the Subordination Agent shall invest and reinvest such amounts in accordance with the written instructions of the Controlling Party. Unless otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement (including, without limitation, with respect to Investment Earnings on amounts on deposit in the Cash Collateral Account pursuant to Section 3.5(f) hereof), any Investment Earnings shall be deposited in the Collection Account when received by the Subordination Agent and shall be applied by the Subordination Agent in the same manner as the other amounts on deposit in the Collection Account are to be applied and any losses shall be charged against the principal amount invested, in each case net of the Subordination Agent's reasonable fees and expenses in making such investments. The Subordination Agent shall not be liable for any loss resulting from any investment, reinvestment or liquidation required to be made under this Agreement other than by reason of its willful misconduct or gross negligence (or, with respect to the handling or transfer of funds, its own negligence). Eligible Investments and any other investment required to be made hereunder shall be held to their maturities except that any such investment may be sold (without regard to its maturity) by the Subordination Agent without instructions whenever such sale is necessary to make a distribution required under this Agreement. Uninvested funds held hereunder shall not earn or accrue interest.
provided
further
however
          (c) The Subordination Agent shall possess all right, title and interest in all funds on deposit from time to time in the Trust Accounts and in all proceeds thereof (including all income thereon, except as otherwise expressly provided in Section 3.3(b) with respect to Investment Earnings). The Trust Accounts shall be held in trust by the Subordination Agent under the sole dominion and control of the Subordination Agent for the benefit of the Trustees, the Certificateholders and the Liquidity Provider, as the case may be. If, at any time, any of the Trust Accounts ceases to be an Eligible Deposit Account, the Subordination Agent shall within 10 Business Days (or such longer period, not to exceed 30 calendar days, for which a Ratings Confirmation for each Class of Certificates shall have been obtained) establish a new Collection Account, Special Payments Account or Cash Collateral Account, as the case may be, as an Eligible Deposit Account and shall transfer any cash and/or any investments to such new Collection Account, Special Payments Account or Cash Collateral Account, as the case may be. So long as WTC is an Eligible Institution, the Trust Accounts shall be maintained with it as Eligible Deposit Accounts.
          SECTION 2.3. . (a) The Subordination Agent shall, upon receipt thereof, deposit in the Collection Account all Scheduled Payments received by it (other than any Scheduled Payment which by the express terms hereof is to be deposited to a Cash Collateral Account).
Deposits to the Collection Account and Special Payments Account
          (b) The Subordination Agent shall, on each date when one or more Special Payments are made to the Subordination Agent as holder of the Equipment Notes, deposit in the Special Payments Account the aggregate amount of such Special Payments.
          SECTION 2.4.  (a) . Except as provided in Section 2.4(c) below, upon receipt by the Subordination Agent, as registered holder of the Equipment Notes, of any notice of a Special Payment (or, in the absence of any such notice, upon receipt by the Subordination Agent of a Special Payment), the
Distributions of Special Payments.
Notice of Special Payment
 
Subordination Agent shall promptly give notice thereof to each Trustee and the Liquidity Provider. The Subordination Agent shall promptly calculate the amount of the redemption or purchase of Equipment Notes, the amount of any Overdue Scheduled Payment or the proceeds of Equipment Notes or Collateral, as the case may be, comprising such Special Payment under the applicable Indenture or Indentures and shall promptly send to each Trustee and the Liqudiity Provider a Written Notice of such amount and the amount allocable to each Trust. Such Written Notice shall also set the distribution date for such Special Payment (a ""), which shall be the Business Day which immediately follows the later to occur of (x) the 15th day after the date of such Written Notice and (y) the date the Subordination Agent has received or expects to receive such Special Payment. Amounts on deposit in the Special Payments Account shall be distributed in accordance with Sections 2.4(b) and 2.4(c) and Article III hereof, as applicable.
Special Distribution Date
          For the purposes of the application of any Equipment Note Special Payment distributed on a Special Distribution Date in accordance with Section 3.2 hereof, so long as no Indenture Default shall have occurred and be continuing under any Indenture:
          (i) the amount of accrued and unpaid Liquidity Expenses that are not yet due that are payable pursuant to clause "second" thereof shall be multiplied by the Section 2.4 Fraction;
          (ii) clause "third" thereof shall be deemed to read as follows: ", (i) the sum of such amount as shall be required to pay accrued and unpaid interest then in arrears on all Liquidity Obligations (at the rate, or in the amount, provided in the Liquidity Facility) plus an amount equal to the amount of accrued and unpaid interest on the Liquidity Obligations not in arrears multiplied by the Section 2.4 Fraction, and (ii) if a Special Termination Drawing has been made under any Liquidity Facility and has not been converted into a Final Drawing, the outstanding amount of such Special Termination Drawing, shall be distributed to the Liquidity Provider";
third
          (iii) clause "seventh" thereof shall be deemed to read as follows: ", such amount as shall be required to pay accrued, due and unpaid interest at the Stated Interest Rate on the outstanding Pool Balance of the Class A Certificates together with (without duplication) accrued and unpaid interest at the Stated Interest Rate on the outstanding principal amount of the Series A Equipment Notes held in the Class A Trust being redeemed, purchased or prepaid";
seventh
          (iv) clause "eighth" thereof shall be deemed to read as follows: ", such amount as shall be required to pay any accrued, due and unpaid Class B Adjusted Interest to the holders of the Class B Certificates"; and
eighth
          (v) clause "eleventh" thereof shall be deemed to read as follows: ", such amount as shall be required to pay in full accrued, due and unpaid interest at the Stated Interest Rate on the outstanding Pool Balance of the Class B Certificates which was not previously paid pursuant to clause "eighth" above to the holders of the Class B Certificates together with (without duplication) accrued and unpaid interest at the Stated Interest Rate on the
eleventh
 
outstanding principal amount of the Series B Equipment Notes held in the Class B Trust and being redeemed, purchased or prepaid".
          (b) . Any amounts on deposit in the Special Payments Account prior to the distribution thereof pursuant to Section 2.4 or 3.2 shall be invested in accordance with Section 2.2(b). Investment Earnings on such investments shall be distributed in accordance with Article III hereof.
Investment of Amounts in Special Payments Account
          (c) . Except for amounts constituting Liquidity Obligations which shall be distributed as provided in Section 3.2, the Subordination Agent will distribute promptly upon receipt thereof (i) any indemnity payment or expense reimbursement received by it from Southwest in respect of any Trustee or the Liquidity Provider (collectively, the ""), and (ii) any compensation received by it from Southwest under any Operative Agreement in respect of any Payee, directly to the Payee entitled thereto.
Certain Payments
Payees
          SECTION 2.5. . (a) With the delivery of this Agreement, the Subordination Agent shall furnish to the Liquidity Provider and each Trustee, and from time to time thereafter may furnish to each Liquidity Provider and each Trustee, at the Subordination Agent's discretion, or upon the Liquidity Provider's or any Trustee's request (which request shall not be made more than one time in any 12-month period), a certificate (a "") of a Responsible Officer of the Subordination Agent certifying as to the incumbency and specimen signatures of the officers of the Subordination Agent and the attorney-in-fact and agents of the Subordination Agent (the "") authorized to give Written Notices on behalf of the Subordination Agent hereunder. Until the Liquidity Provider and each Trustee receives a subsequent Subordination Agent Incumbency Certificate, it shall be entitled to rely on the last Subordination Agent Incumbency Certificate delivered to it hereunder.
Designated Representatives
Subordination Agent Incumbency Certificate
Subordination Agent Representatives
          (b) With the delivery of this Agreement, each Trustee shall furnish to the Subordination Agent, and from time to time thereafter may furnish to the Subordination Agent, at such Trustee's discretion, or upon the Subordination Agent's request (which request shall not be made more than one time in any 12-month period), a certificate (a "") of a Responsible Officer of such Trustee certifying as to the incumbency and specimen signatures of the officers of such Trustee and the attorney-in-fact and agents of such Trustee (the "") authorized to give Written Notices on behalf of such Trustee hereunder. Until the Subordination Agent receives a subsequent Trustee Incumbency Certificate, it shall be entitled to rely on the last Trustee Incumbency Certificate delivered to it hereunder.
Trustee Incumbency Certificate
Trustee Representatives
          (c) With the delivery of this Agreement, the Liquidity Provider shall furnish to the Subordination Agent, and from time to time thereafter may furnish to the Subordination Agent, at the Liquidity Provider's discretion, or upon the Subordination Agent's request (which request shall not be made more than one time in any 12-month period), a certificate (each, a "") of any Responsible Officer of the Liquidity Provider certifying as to the incumbency and specimen signatures of any officer, attorney-in-fact, agent or other designated representative of the Liquidity Provider (in each case, the "" and, together with the Subordination Agent Representatives and the Trustee
Provider Incumbency Certificate
Provider Representatives
 
Representatives, the "") authorized to give Written Notices on behalf of the Liquidity Provider hereunder. Until the Subordination Agent receives a subsequent Provider Incumbency Certificate, it shall be entitled to rely on the last Provider Incumbency Certificate delivered to it hereunder.
Designated Representatives
          SECTION 2.6. . (a) The Trustees and the Liquidity Provider hereby agree that, with respect to any Indenture at any given time, the Loan Trustee thereunder will be directed in taking, or refraining from taking, any action under such Indenture or with respect to the Equipment Notes issued thereunder (i) so long as no Indenture Default has occurred and is continuing thereunder, by the holders of at least a majority of the outstanding principal amount of such Equipment Notes (provided that, for so long as the Subordination Agent is the registered holder of the Equipment Notes, the Subordination Agent shall act with respect to this clause (i) in accordance with the directions of the Trustees (in the case of each such Trustee, with respect to the Equipment Notes issued under such Indenture and held as Trust Property of such Trust) constituting, in the aggregate, directions with respect to at least a majority of outstanding principal amount of Equipment Notes except as provided in Section 9.1(b)), and (ii) after the occurrence and during the continuance of an Indenture Default thereunder, in taking, or refraining from taking, any action under such Indenture or with respect to such Equipment Notes, including exercising remedies thereunder (including Accelerating the Equipment Notes issued thereunder or foreclosing the Lien on the Aircraft securing such Equipment Notes), by the Controlling Party (except as otherwise provided in Section 2.6(d)).
Controlling Party
          (b) The "Controlling Party" shall be (x) the Class A Trustee and (y) upon payment of Final Distributions to the holders of Class A Certificates, the Class B Trustee. For purposes of giving effect to the provisions of Section 2.6(a) and this Section 2.6(b), the Trustees (other than the Controlling Party) irrevocably agree (and the Certificateholders (other than the Certificateholders represented by the Controlling Party) shall be deemed to agree by virtue of their purchase of Certificates) that the Subordination Agent, as record holder of the Equipment Notes, shall exercise its voting rights in respect of the Equipment Notes so held by the Subordination Agent as directed by the Controlling Party and any vote so exercised shall be binding upon the Trustees and all Certificateholders.
          The Subordination Agent shall give Written Notice to all of the other parties to this Agreement promptly upon a change in the identity of the Controlling Party. Each of the parties hereto agrees that it shall not exercise any of the rights of the Controlling Party at such time as it is not the Controlling Party hereunder; , , that nothing herein contained shall prevent or prohibit any Non-Controlling Party from exercising such rights as shall be specifically granted to such Non-Controlling Party hereunder and under the other Operative Agreements.
provided
however
          (c) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of clauses (a) and (b) above, at any time after 18 months from the earliest to occur of (i) the date on which the entire Available Amount as of such date under the Liquidity Facility shall have been drawn (excluding a Downgrade Drawing, a Non-Extension Drawing or a Special Termination Drawing but including a Final Drawing or a Downgrade Drawing, a Non-Extension Drawing or a Special Termination Drawing that has been converted to a Final Drawing under the Liquidity Facility) and remain unreimbursed, (ii) the date on which the portion of any Downgrade Drawing, Non-Extension
 
Drawing or a Special Termination Drawing equal to the amount on deposit in the Cash Collateral Account up to the Required Amount as of such date under the Liquidity Facility shall have become and remain "Applied Downgrade Advances" or "Applied Non-Extension Advances" or "Applied Special Termination Advances", as the case may be, under and as defined in the Liquidity Facility and (iii) the date on which all Equipment Notes under all Indentures shall have been Accelerated ( that in the event of a bankruptcy proceeding under the Bankruptcy Code in which Southwest is a debtor, any amounts payable in respect of Equipment Notes which have become immediately due and payable by declaration or otherwise shall not be considered Accelerated for purposes of this sub-clause (iii) until the expiration of the 60-day period under Section 1110(a)(2)(A) of the Bankruptcy Code or such longer period as may apply under Section 1110(a)(2)(B) or Section 1110(b) of the Bankruptcy Code), the Liquidity Provider (so long as the Liquidity Provider has not defaulted in its obligation to make any Drawing under the Liquidity Facility) shall have the right to elect, by Written Notice to the Subordination Agent and each of the Trustees, to become the Controlling Party hereunder at any time from and including the last day of such 18-month period.
provided
          (d) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of clauses (a) through (c) above, if any holders of the Class B Certificates or Additional Certificates exercise their right under Section 2.7 hereof to purchase Equipment Notes issued under any Indenture, the holders of the majority in aggregate unpaid principal amount of all the Equipment Notes issued under such Indenture, instead of the Controlling Party, shall be entitled to direct the relevant Loan Trustee in taking, or refraining from taking, any action under such Indenture or with respect to such Equipment Notes, including exercising remedies thereunder (including Accelerating the Equipment Notes issued thereunder or foreclosing the Lien on the Aircraft securing such Equipment Notes) (it being understood and agreed that any Equipment Notes that continue to be held by the Subordination Agent shall be voted in accordance with clause (a) above).
          (e) The exercise of remedies by the Controlling Party under this Agreement shall be expressly limited by Sections 4.1(a)(ii) and 4.1(a)(iii) hereof.
          (f) The Controlling Party shall not be entitled to require or obligate any Non-Controlling Party to provide funds necessary to exercise any right or remedy hereunder.
          SECTION 2.7. . (a) If an Equipment Note Buy-Out Event has occurred and is continuing, then, with respect to the Indentures referred to below in this clause (a), any Class B Certificateholder may, upon 15 days' prior written notice to the Subordination Agent, each Trustee (and each such Trustee shall promptly provide such notice to all Certificateholders of its Trust) and each applicable Loan Trustee given on or before the date which is six months after the occurrence of the applicable Equipment Note Buy-Out Event, purchase on the third Business Day next following the expiry of such 15-day notice period all, but not less than all, of the Series A Equipment Notes issued under any one or more of the Indentures for a purchase price equal to the sum of the aggregate Note Target Price for such Series A Equipment Notes plus an amount equal to the Excess Liquidity Obligations in respect of such Indentures. If prior to the end of such 15-day period, any other holder of the Class B Certificates notifies the Subordination Agent, each Trustee (and each such Trustee shall promptly notify all Certificateholders of its Trust, including the purchasing Class B Certificateholder) and each applicable Loan Trustee that it wishes to participate in such purchase,
Equipment Note Buy-Out Rights
 
then such other Certificateholder may join with the purchasing Certificateholder to purchase such Series A Equipment Notes pro rata based on the interest in the Class B Trust held by each such Certificateholder compared to such interests held by all such participating Certificateholders.
               (b) If an Equipment Note Buy-Out Event has occurred and is continuing, then regardless of whether any Class B Certificateholder (or, if applicable, any Senior Additional Certificateholder (as defined below)) has elected to exercise its right to purchase Equipment Notes under this Section 2.7 (and so long as, with respect to the Indentures referred to in this clause (b), no Junior Additional Certificateholder (as defined below) has elected to exercise its right to purchase Equipment Notes issued under such Indentures pursuant to this Section 2.7), any Additional Certificateholder may, upon 15 days' prior written notice to the Subordination Agent, each Trustee (and each such Trustee shall promptly provide such notice to all Certificateholders of the applicable Trust) and each applicable Loan Trustee given on or before the date which is six months after the occurrence of the applicable Equipment Note Buy-Out Event, purchase on the third Business Day next following the expiry of such 15-day notice period all, but not less than all, of the Series A Equipment Notes and the Series B Equipment Notes (and, if applicable, any Senior Additional Equipment Notes (as defined below)) issued under any one or more Indentures for a purchase price equal to the sum of the aggregate Note Target Price for such Series A Equipment Notes, and Series B Equipment Notes (and, if applicable, any Senior Additional Equipment Notes) plus an amount equal to the Excess Liquidity Obligations in respect of such Indentures. If prior to the end of such 15-day period, any other holder of such class of Additional Certificates notifies the Subordination Agent, each Trustee (and each such Trustee shall promptly notify all Certificateholders of the applicable Trust, including the purchasing Additional Certificateholder) and each applicable Loan Trustee that it wishes to participate in such purchase, then such other Certificateholder may join with the purchasing Certificateholder to purchase such Series A Equipment Notes and Series B Equipment Notes (and, if applicable, any Senior Additional Equipment Notes) pro rata based on the interest in the applicable Trust held by each such Certificateholder compared to such interests held by all such participating Certificateholders.
          "" means, with respect to any Additional Certificateholder exercising its right to purchase Equipment Notes under this Section 2.7(b), any holder of any class (or classes) of Additional Certificates that rank junior, in priority of payment under this Agreement, to the class of Additional Certificates held by such Additional Certificateholder.
Junior Additional Certificateholder
          "" means, with respect to any Additional Certificateholder exercising its right to purchase Equipment Notes under this Section 2.7(b), any holder of any class (or classes) of Additional Certificates that rank senior, in priority of payment under this Agreement, to the class of Additional Certificates held by such Additional Certificateholder.
Senior Additional Certificateholder
          "" means, with respect to any Additional Certificateholder exercising its right, under this Section 2.7(b), to purchase Equipment Notes issued under any Indenture, any series of Additional Equipment Notes that rank senior, in priority of payment under such Indenture, to the series of Additional Equipment Notes corresponding to the class of Additional Certificates held by such Additional Certificateholder.
Senior Additional Equipment Notes
 
          (c) On the date of any purchase by the Class B Certificateholders or any Additional Certificateholders, as applicable, of Equipment Notes issued under any Indenture, the purchasing Certificateholders shall pay to the Subordination Agent in immediately available funds the aggregate purchase price of all of the Equipment Notes being purchased as specified in this Section 2.7. The proceeds received by the Subordination Agent pursuant to this clause (d) shall be promptly applied by the Subordination Agent in accordance with the first paragraph of Section 2.4(a) and Section 3.2 hereof.
          (d) From and after the purchase of any Equipment Notes pursuant to this Section 2.7, any proceeds received or payments made with respect to such purchased Equipment Notes shall be paid directly to the holders of such Equipment Notes in accordance with the related Indentures pro rata and shall not be subject to application under Article III hereof. Any proceeds received or payments made with respect to any Equipment Notes under the related Indenture not purchased pursuant to this Section 2.7 shall continue to be paid to the Subordination Agent and shall be applied in accordance with Article III hereof.
          (e) Notwithstanding the purchase of any Equipment Notes under any Indenture pursuant to this Section 2.7, the provisions of the Granting Clause, Section 2.06, Article III and Section 11.01 and the definitions of "Related Additional Series Equipment Note", "Related Equipment Note", "Related Event of Default", "Related Indenture Indemnitee", "Related Indentures", "Related Mortgagee", "Related Note Holder", "Related Operative Agreements", "Related Participation Agreement", "Related Payment Default", "Related Secured Obligations", "Related Secured Parties", "Related Series A Equipment Note", "Related Series B Equipment Note", and "Related Special Default" (the "") of such Indenture shall remain unchanged and in full force and effect, and may not be amended, modified or otherwise waived in any manner without the prior written consent of the Subordination Agent acting on the instructions of each Trustee. As a condition precedent to any purchase of Equipment Notes under this Section 2.7, each purchasing Certificateholder shall confirm in writing to the Subordination Agent that such purchasing Certificateholder acknowledges, consents and agrees to the provisions of this Section 2.7(e) and shall not take any action in contravention thereof or otherwise amend, modify or waive the Cross-Collateralization Provisions of such Indenture, and further acknowledges, consents and agrees to the restrictions set forth in Sections 4.1(a)(ii) and 4.1(a)(iii) hereof.
Cross-Collateralization Provisions
          (f) In the event that Southwest or any of its Affiliates is an owner of a Class B Certificate (or an Additional Certificate), it shall not have any right, as a Class B Certificateholder (or an Additional Certificateholder), as applicable, to purchase any Equipment Notes under this Section 2.7.
          (g) In connection with the purchase of Equipment Notes pursuant to this Section 2.7, upon the payment by any Certificateholder of the applicable Excess Liquidity Obligations and that portion of Note Target Price constituting enforcement costs incurred by the Subordination Agent, such Certificateholder, as the holder of such Equipment Notes, shall be subrogated to the right of the Subordination Agent to receive payment of such amounts in respect of such Equipment Notes under the applicable Indenture.
 
          (h) The right of any Certificateholder to purchase Equipment Notes pursuant to this Section 2.7 shall be subject to such purchase being exempt from, or not subject to, the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and in compliance with other applicable state or foreign securities laws. Each purchaser shall be required to provide to the Subordination Agent reasonably satisfactory evidence of compliance with such laws.
          (i) Any Taxes incurred by the applicable Loan Trustee, the Subordination Agent or the applicable Trustee in connection with the sale of any Equipment Note pursuant to the exercise by one or more Certificateholders of the right to purchase Equipment Notes pursuant to this Section 2.7 shall be paid by such purchasing Certificateholders, on a pro rata basis.
          SECTION 3.1. . (a) No later than 3:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the Business Day immediately preceding each Distribution Date, each of the following Persons shall deliver to the Subordination Agent a Written Notice setting forth the following information as at the close of business on such Business Day:
Written Notice of Distribution
     (i) With respect to the Class A Certificates, the Class A Trustee shall separately set forth the amounts to be paid in accordance with clause "first" (to reimburse payments made by such Trustee or the Class A Certificateholders, as the case may be, pursuant to subclause (ii) or (iv) of clause "first"), subclauses (ii) and (iii) of clause "sixth" of Section 3.2 hereof and clauses "seventh" and "tenth" of Section 3.2 hereof;
     (ii) With respect to the Class B Certificates, the Class B Trustee shall separately set forth the amounts to be paid in accordance with clause "first" (to reimburse payments made by such Trustee or the Class B Certificateholders, as the case may be, pursuant to subclause (ii) or (iv) of clause "first"), subclauses (ii) and (iii) of clause "sixth" of Section 3.2 hereof and clauses "eighth", "eleventh" and "twelfth" of Section 3.2 hereof;
     (iii) With respect to the Liquidity Facility, the Liquidity Provider shall separately set forth the amounts to be paid to it in accordance with subclauses (iii) and (iv) of clause "first" of Section 3.2 hereof, clause "second" of Section 3.2 hereof, clause "third" of Section 3.2 hereof, clause "fourth" of Section 3.2 hereof and clause "fifth" of Section 3.2 hereof; and
     (iv) Each Trustee shall set forth the amounts to be paid in accordance with clause "sixth" of Section 3.2 hereof.
          (b) At such time as a Trustee or the Liquidity Provider shall have received all amounts owing to it (and, in the case of a Trustee, the Certificateholders for which it is acting) pursuant to Section 3.2 hereof and, in the case of the Liquidity Provider, its commitment or
 
obligations under the Liquidity Facility shall have terminated or expired, such Person shall, by a Written Notice, so inform the Subordination Agent and each other party to this Agreement.
          (c) As provided in Section 6.5 hereof, the Subordination Agent shall be fully protected in relying on any of the information set forth in a Written Notice provided by any Trustee, the Liquidity Provider pursuant to paragraphs (a) and (b) above and shall have no independent obligation to verify, calculate or recalculate any amount set forth in any Written Notice delivered in accordance with such paragraphs.
          (d) Any Written Notice delivered by the Trustee, the Liquidity Provider or the Subordination Agent, as applicable, pursuant to Section 3.1(b) hereof, if made prior to 10:00 A.M. (New York City time) on any Business Day, shall be effective on the date delivered (or if delivered later on a Business Day or if delivered on a day which is not a Business Day shall be effective as of the next Business Day). Subject to the terms of this Agreement, the Subordination Agent shall as promptly as practicable comply with any such instructions; , , that any transfer of funds pursuant to any instruction received after 10:00 A.M. (New York City time) on any Business Day may be made on the next succeeding Business Day.
provided
however
          (e) In the event the Subordination Agent shall not receive from any Person any information set forth in paragraph (a) above which is required to enable the Subordination Agent to make a distribution to such Person pursuant to Section 3.2 hereof, the Subordination Agent shall request such information and, failing to receive any such information, the Subordination Agent shall not make such distribution(s) to such Person. In such event, the Subordination Agent shall make distributions pursuant to clauses "first" through "fourteenth" of Section 3.2 to the extent it shall have sufficient information to enable it to make such distributions, and shall continue to hold any funds remaining, after making such distributions, until the Subordination Agent shall receive all necessary information to enable it to distribute any funds so withheld.
          (f) On such dates (but not more frequently than monthly) as the Liquidity Provider or any Trustee shall request, but in any event automatically at the end of each calendar quarter, the Subordination Agent shall send to such party a written statement reflecting all amounts on deposit with the Subordination Agent pursuant to Section 3.1(e) hereof.
          The notices required under this Section 3.1 may be in the form of a schedule or similar document provided to the Subordination Agent by the parties referenced therein or by any one of them, which schedule or similar document may state that, unless there has been a prepayment of the Certificates, such schedule or similar document is to remain in effect until any substitute notice or amendment shall be given to the Subordination Agent by the party providing such notice.
 
          SECTION 3.2. . Except as otherwise provided in Sections 2.4, 3.1(e), 3.3, 3.5(b) and 3.5(k), amounts on deposit in the Collection Account (including amounts on deposit in the Special Payments Account) shall be promptly distributed on each Regular Distribution Date (or, in the case of any amount described in Section 2.4(a), on the Special Distribution Date thereof) in the following order of priority and in accordance with the information provided to the Subordination Agent pursuant to Section 3.1(a) hereof:
Distribution of Amounts on Deposit in the Collection Account
     , such amount as shall be required to reimburse (i) the Subordination Agent for any reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses actually incurred by it (to the extent not previously reimbursed) or reasonably expected to be incurred by it for the period ending on the next succeeding Regular Distribution Date (which shall not exceed $150,000 unless approved in writing by the Controlling Party) in the protection of, or the realization of the value of, the Equipment Notes or any Collateral, shall be applied by the Subordination Agent in reimbursement of such costs and expenses, (ii) any Trustee for any amounts of the nature described in clause (i) above actually incurred by it under the applicable Trust Agreement (to the extent not previously reimbursed), shall be distributed to such Trustee, (iii) the Liquidity Provider for any amounts of the nature described in clause (i) above actually incurred by it (to the extent not previously reimbursed), shall be distributed to the Liquidity Provider, and (iv) the Liquidity Provider or any Certificateholder for payments, if any, made by it to the Subordination Agent or any Trustee in respect of amounts described in clause (i) above actually incurred by it (to the extent not previously reimbursed) (collectively, the ""), shall be distributed to the Liquidity Provider, Certificateholder or the applicable Trustee for the account of such Certificateholder, in each such case, pro rata on the basis of all amounts described in clauses (i) through (iv) above;
first
Administration Expenses
     , such amount as shall be required to pay all accrued and unpaid Liquidity Expenses owed to the Liquidity Provider shall be distributed to the Liquidity Provider;
second
     , (i) such amount as shall be required to pay the aggregate amount of accrued and unpaid interest on all Liquidity Obligations (at the rate, or in the amount, provided in the Liquidity Facility) and (ii) if a Special Termination Drawing has been made under the Liquidity Facility and has not been converted into a Final Drawing, the outstanding amount of such Special Termination Drawing shall be distributed to the Liquidity Provider;
third
     , such amount as shall be required (A) if any Cash Collateral Account had been previously funded as provided in Section 3.5(f), unless (i) a Performing Note Deficiency exists and a Liquidity Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing with respect to the Liquidity Facility or (ii) a Final Drawing shall have occurred with respect to the Liquidity Facility, to fund such Cash Collateral Account up to its Required Amount shall be deposited in such Cash Collateral Account, (B) if the Liquidity Facility shall become a Downgraded Facility or a Non-Extended Facility at a time when unreimbursed Interest Drawings under the Liquidity Facility have reduced the Available Amount thereunder to zero, unless (i) a Performing Note Deficiency exists and a Liquidity Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing with respect to the
fourth
 
Liquidity Facility or (ii) a Final Drawing shall have occurred with respect to the Liquidity Facility, to deposit into the related Cash Collateral Account an amount equal to such Cash Collateral Account's Required Amount shall be deposited in such Cash Collateral Account, and (C) if, with respect to the Liquidity Facility, neither subclause (A) nor subclause (B) of this clause "fourth" is applicable, to pay or reimburse the Liquidity Provider in an amount equal to the amount of all Liquidity Obligations then due under such Liquidity Facility (other than amounts payable pursuant to clause "second" or "third" of this Section 3.2), pro rata on the basis of the amounts of all such deficiencies and/or unreimbursed Liquidity Obligations of the Liquidity Provider;
     , if, with respect to the Liquidity Facility, any amounts are to be distributed pursuant to either subclause (A) or (B) of clause "fourth" above, then the Liquidity Provider shall be paid the excess of (x) the aggregate outstanding amount of unreimbursed Advances (whether or not then due) under the Liquidity Facility over (y) the Required Amount;
fifth
     , such amount as shall be required to reimburse or pay (i) the Subordination Agent for any Tax (other than Unindemnified Taxes), expense, fee, charge or other loss incurred by or any other amount payable to the Subordination Agent in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby (to the extent not previously reimbursed), shall be applied by the Subordination Agent in reimbursement of such amount, (ii) each Trustee for any Tax (other than Unindemnified Taxes), expense, fee, charge, loss or any other amount payable to such Trustee under the applicable Trust Agreements (to the extent not previously reimbursed), shall be distributed to such Trustee, and (iii) each Certificateholder for payments, if any, made by it pursuant to Section 5.2 hereof in respect of amounts described in clause (i) above, shall be distributed to the applicable Trustee for the account of such Certificateholder, in each such case, pro rata on the basis of all amounts described in clauses (i) through (iii) above;
sixth
     , such amount as shall be required to pay in full accrued and unpaid interest at the Stated Interest Rate on the Pool Balance of the Class A Certificates shall be distributed to the Class A Trustee;
seventh
     , such amount as shall be required to pay unpaid Class B Adjusted Interest to the holders of the Class B Certificates;
eighth
     , [Reserved];
ninth
     , such amount as shall be required to pay in full Expected Distributions to the holders of the Class A Certificates on such Distribution Date shall be distributed to the Class A Trustee;
tenth
     , such amount as shall be required to pay in full accrued and unpaid interest at the Stated Interest Rate on the Pool Balance of the Class B Certificates which was not previously paid pursuant to clause "eighth" above to the holders of the Class B Certificates;
eleventh
 
     , such amount as shall be required to pay in full Expected Distributions to the holders of the Class B Certificates on such Distribution Date shall be distributed to the Class B Trustee; and
twelfth
     , the balance, if any, of any such amount remaining thereafter shall be held in the Collection Account for later distribution in accordance with this Article III.
thirteenth
          With respect to clauses "first" and "sixth" above, no amounts shall be reimbursable to the Subordination Agent, any Trustee, the Liquidity Provider or any Certificateholder for any payments made by any such Person in connection with any Equipment Note that is no longer held by the Subordination Agent (to the extent that such payments relate to periods after such Equipment Note ceases to be held by the Subordination Agent).
          SECTION 3.3. . (a) Any payments received by the Subordination Agent for which no provision as to the application thereof is made in this Agreement shall be distributed by the Subordination Agent (i) in the order of priority specified in Section 3.2 hereof and (ii) to the extent received or realized at any time after the Final Distributions for each Class of Certificates have been made, in the manner provided in clause "first" of Section 3.2 hereof.
Other Payments
          (b) Notwithstanding the priority of payments specified in Section 3.2, in the event any Investment Earnings on amounts on deposit in any Cash Collateral Account resulting from an Unapplied Provider Advance are deposited in the Collection Account or the Special Payments Account, such Investment Earnings shall be used to pay interest payable in respect of such Unapplied Provider Advance to the extent of such Investment Earnings.
          (c) If the Subordination Agent receives any Scheduled Payment after the Scheduled Payment Date relating thereto, but prior to such payment becoming an Overdue Scheduled Payment, then the Subordination Agent shall deposit such Scheduled Payment in the Collection Account and promptly distribute such Scheduled Payment in accordance with the priority of distributions set forth in Section 3.2 hereof; that, for the purposes of this Section 3.3(c) only, each reference in clause "tenth" or "twelfth" of Section 3.2 to "Distribution Date" shall be deemed to refer to such Scheduled Payment Date.
provided
          (d) Payments in respect of Liquidity Obligations under Section 3.2 shall be without duplication of any indemnity payment, expense reimbursement or compensation previously paid to the applicable Liquidity Provider under Section 2.4(c).
          SECTION 3.4. . Any amounts distributed hereunder to the Liquidity Provider shall be paid to the Liquidity Provider by wire transfer of funds to the address the Liquidity Provider shall provide to the Subordination Agent. The Subordination Agent shall provide a Written Notice of any such transfer to the Liquidity Provider at the time of such transfer. Any amounts distributed hereunder by the Subordination Agent to any Trustee which shall not be the same institution as the Subordination Agent shall be paid to such Trustee by wire transfer funds at the address such Trustee shall provide to the Subordination Agent.
Payments to the Trustees and the Liquidity Provider
 
          SECTION 3.5. . (a) . If on any Distribution Date, after giving effect to the subordination provisions of this Agreement, the Subordination Agent shall not have sufficient funds for the payment of any amounts due and owing in respect of accrued interest on the Class A Certificates (at the Stated Interest Rate for such Class of Certificates) then, prior to 12:30 p.m. (New York City time) on such Distribution Date, (i) the Subordination Agent shall request a drawing (each such drawing, an "") under the Liquidity Facility in an amount equal to the lesser of (x) an amount sufficient to pay the amount of such accrued interest (at the applicable Stated Interest Rate for such Class of Certificates) and (y) the Available Amount, and shall pay such amount to the Trustee with respect to such Class of Certificates in payment of such accrued interest.
Liquidity Facility
Interest Drawings
Interest Drawing
          (b) . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, all payments received by the Subordination Agent in respect of an Interest Drawing under the Liquidity Facility and all amounts withdrawn by the Subordination Agent from the Cash Collateral Account, and payable in each case to the Class A Certificateholders or the Class A Trustee, shall be promptly distributed to the Class A Trustee.
Application of Interest Drawings
          (c) . (i) With respect to the Liquidity Facility, a Downgrade Drawing shall be requested by the Subordination Agent thereunder as provided in Section 3.5(c)(iii), if at any time a Downgrade Event shall have occurred (a ""), unless the Liquidity Provider or Southwest arranges for a Replacement Liquidity Provider as provided in Section 3.5(c)(ii) with respect to the Liquidity Facility.
Downgrade Drawings
Downgraded Facility
               (ii) If at any time the Liquidity Facility becomes a Downgraded Facility, the Subordination Agent shall request a Downgrade Drawing thereunder in accordance with Section 3.5(c)(iii), unless the Liquidity Provider or Southwest arranges for a Replacement Liquidity Provider to issue and deliver a Replacement Liquidity Facility to the Subordination Agent within 10 days (or 45 days if Standard & Poor's downgrades the Liquidity Provider's ratings from A-1+ to A-1) after receiving notice of a Downgrade Event (but not later than the expiration date of such Downgraded Facility).
               (iii) Upon the occurrence of any Downgrade Event, unless a Replacement Liquidity Facility is arranged as provided in Section 3.5(c)(ii), the Subordination Agent shall, on the 10th (or the 45, as the case may be) day referred to in Section 3.5(c)(ii) (or if such 10th day or 45 day, as the case may be, is not a Business Day, on the next succeeding Business Day) (or, if earlier, the expiration date of such Downgraded Facility), request a drawing in accordance with and to the extent permitted by such Downgraded Facility (such drawing, a "") of the Available Amount thereunder. Amounts drawn pursuant to a Downgrade Drawing shall be maintained and invested as provided in Section 3.5(f) hereof. The Liquidity Provider may also arrange for a Replacement Liquidity Provider to issue and deliver a Replacement Liquidity Facility at any time after such Downgrade Drawing so long as such Downgrade Drawing has not been reimbursed in full to the Liquidity Provider.
th
th
Downgrade Drawing
          (d) . If the Liquidity Facility is scheduled to expire on a date (the "") prior to the date that is 15 days after the Final Legal Distribution Date for the Class A Certificates, then, no earlier than the 60th day and no later than the 40th day prior to the then Stated Expiration Date, the Subordination Agent shall request that
Non-Extension Drawings
Stated Expiration Date
 
the Liquidity Provider extend the Stated Expiration Date until the earlier of (i) the date which is 15 days after such Final Legal Distribution Date and (ii) the date that is the day immediately preceding the 364 day occurring after the last day of the applicable Consent Period (as hereinafter defined) (unless the obligations of the Liquidity Provider are earlier terminated in accordance with the Liquidity Facility). Whether or not the Liquidity Provider has received a request from the Subordination Agent, the Liquidity Provider shall advise the Subordination Agent, no earlier than the 40 day (or, if earlier, the date of the Liquidity Provider's receipt of such request, if any, from the Subordination Agent) and no later than the 25 day prior to the Stated Expiration Date then in effect for the Liquidity Facility (such period, the ""), whether, in its sole discretion, it agrees to extend such Stated Expiration Date. If (A) on or before the date on which such Consent Period ends, the Liquidity Facility shall not have been replaced in accordance with Section 3.5(e) and (B) the Liquidity Provider fails irrevocably and unconditionally to advise the Subordination Agent on or before the date on which such Consent Period ends that such Stated Expiration Date then in effect shall be so extended for the Liquidity Facility, the Subordination Agent shall, on the date on which such Consent Period ends (or as soon as possible thereafter), in accordance with the terms of the Liquidity Facility (a ""), request a drawing under the Liquidity Facility (such drawing, a "") of all available and undrawn amounts thereunder. Amounts drawn pursuant to a Non-Extension Drawing shall be maintained and invested in accordance with Section 3.5(f) hereof.
th
th
th
Consent Period
Non-Extended Facility
Non-Extension Drawing
          (e) . (i) At any time, Southwest may, at its option, with cause or without cause, arrange for a Replacement Liquidity Facility to replace the Liquidity Facility (including any Replacement Liquidity Facility provided pursuant to Section 3.5(e)(ii) hereof); , , that the initial Liquidity Provider for the Liquidity Facility shall not be replaced by Southwest as a Liquidity Provider with respect to such Liquidity Facility prior to the third anniversary of the Closing Date unless (A) there shall have become due to such initial Liquidity Provider, or such initial Liquidity Provider shall have demanded, amounts pursuant to Section 3.01, 3.02 or 3.03 of the Liquidity Facility and the replacement of such initial Liquidity Provider would reduce or eliminate the obligation to pay such amounts or Southwest determines in good faith that there is a substantial likelihood that such initial Liquidity Provider will have the right to claim any such amounts (unless such initial Liquidity Provider waives, in writing, any right it may have to claim such amounts), which determination shall be set forth in a certificate delivered by Southwest to such initial Liquidity Provider setting forth the basis for such determination and accompanied by an opinion of outside counsel selected by Southwest and reasonably acceptable to such initial Liquidity Provider verifying the legal conclusions, if any, of such certificate relating to such basis, that, in the case of any likely claim for such amounts based upon any proposed, or proposed change in, law, rule, regulation, interpretation, directive, requirement, request or administrative practice, such opinion may assume the adoption or promulgation of such proposed matter, (B) it shall become unlawful or impossible for such initial Liquidity Provider (or its Facility Office) to maintain or fund its LIBOR Advances as described in Section 3.10 of the Liquidity Facility, (C) the Liquidity Facility of such initial Liquidity Provider shall become a Downgraded Facility or a Non-Extended Facility or a Downgrade Drawing or a Non-Extension Drawing shall have occurred under the Liquidity Facility of such initial Liquidity Provider or (D) such initial Liquidity Provider shall have breached any of its payment (including, without limitation, funding) obligations under the Liquidity Facility in respect of which it is the Liquidity Provider. If such
Issuance of Replacement Liquidity Facility
provided
however
provided
 
Replacement Liquidity Facility is provided at any time after a Downgrade Drawing, a Non-Extension Drawing or a Special Termination Drawing has been made, all funds on deposit in the relevant Cash Collateral Account will be returned to the Liquidity Provider being replaced.
               (ii) If the Liquidity Provider shall determine not to extend the Liquidity Facility in accordance with Section 3.5(d), then the Liquidity Provider may, at its option, arrange for a Replacement Liquidity Facility to replace the Liquidity Facility during the period no earlier than 40 days and no later than 25 days prior to the then effective Stated Expiration Date of such Liquidity Facility. At any time after a Non-Extension Drawing has been made under the Liquidity Facility, the Liquidity Provider may, at its option, arrange for a Replacement Liquidity Facility to replace the Liquidity Facility under which such Non-Extension Drawing has been made.
               (iii) No Replacement Liquidity Facility arranged by Southwest or a Liquidity Provider in accordance with clause (i) or (ii) above or pursuant to Section 3.5(c), respectively, shall become effective and no such Replacement Liquidity Facility shall be deemed a "Liquidity Facility" under the Operative Agreements, unless and until (A) each of the conditions referred to in sub-clauses (iv)(x) and (z) below shall have been satisfied, (B) if such Replacement Liquidity Facility shall materially adversely affect the rights, remedies, interests or obligations of the Class A Certificateholders under any of the Operative Agreements, the applicable Trustee shall have consented, in writing, to the execution and issuance of such Replacement Liquidity Facility and (C) in the case of a Replacement Liquidity Facility arranged by the Liquidity Provider under Section 3.5(e)(ii) or pursuant to Section 3.5(c), such Replacement Liquidity Facility is acceptable to Southwest.
               (iv) In connection with the issuance of any Replacement Liquidity Facility, the Subordination Agent shall (x) prior to the issuance of such Replacement Liquidity Facility, obtain written confirmation from each Rating Agency that such Replacement Liquidity Facility will not cause a reduction of any rating then in effect for the Class A Certificates by such Rating Agency (without regard to any downgrading of any rating of any Liquidity Provider being replaced pursuant to Section 3.5(c) hereof), (y) pay all Liquidity Obligations then owing to the replaced Liquidity Provider (which payment shall be made first from available funds in the applicable Cash Collateral Account as described in clause (v) of Section 3.5(f) hereof, and thereafter from any other available source, including, without limitation, a drawing under the Replacement Liquidity Facility) and (z) cause the issuer of the Replacement Liquidity Facility to deliver the Replacement Liquidity Facility to the Subordination Agent, together with a legal opinion opining that such Replacement Liquidity Facility is an enforceable obligation of such Replacement Liquidity Provider.
               (v) Upon satisfaction of the conditions set forth in clauses (iii) and (iv) of this Section 3.5(e) with respect to a Replacement Liquidity Facility, (w) the replaced Liquidity Facility shall terminate, (x) the Subordination Agent shall, if and to the extent so requested by Southwest or the Liquidity Provider being replaced, execute and deliver any certificate or other instrument required in order to terminate the replaced Liquidity Facility, shall surrender the replaced Liquidity Facility to the Liquidity Provider being replaced and shall execute and deliver the Replacement Liquidity Facility and any associated Fee Letters, (y) each of the parties hereto shall enter into any amendments to this Agreement necessary to give effect to (1) the
 
replacement of the applicable Liquidity Provider with the applicable Replacement Liquidity Provider and (2) the replacement of the applicable Liquidity Facility with the applicable Replacement Liquidity Facility and (z) the applicable Replacement Liquidity Provider shall be deemed to be a Liquidity Provider with the rights and obligations of a Liquidity Provider hereunder and under the other Operative Agreements and such Replacement Liquidity Facility shall be deemed to be a Liquidity Facility hereunder and under the other Operative Agreements.
          (f) . In the event the Subordination Agent shall draw all available amounts under the Liquidity Facility, pursuant to Section 3.5(c), 3.5(d), 3.5(i) or 3.5(k) hereof, or in the event amounts are to be deposited in the Cash Collateral Account pursuant to subclause (A) or (B) of clause "fourth" of Section 3.2, amounts so drawn or to be deposited, as the case may be, shall be deposited by the Subordination Agent in the Cash Collateral Account. All amounts on deposit in the Cash Collateral Account shall be invested and reinvested in Eligible Investments in accordance with Section 2.2(b) hereof.
Cash Collateral Account; Withdrawals; Investments
          On each Interest Payment Date (or, in the case of any Special Distribution Date with respect to the distribution of a Special Payment, on such Special Distribution Date), Investment Earnings on amounts on deposit in the Cash Collateral Account (or, in the case of any Special Distribution Date with respect to the distribution of a Special Payment, so long as no Indenture Default shall have occurred and be continuing under any Indenture, such Investment Earnings multiplied by the Section 2.4 Fraction) shall be deposited in the Collection Account (or, in the case of any Special Distribution Date with respect to the distribution of a Special Payment, the Special Payments Account) and applied on such Interest Payment Date (or Special Distribution Date, as the case may be) in accordance with Section 3.2 or 3.3 (as applicable). The Subordination Agent shall deliver a written statement to Southwest and the Liquidity Provider one day prior to each Interest Payment Date and Special Distribution Date setting forth the aggregate amount of Investment Earnings held in the Cash Collateral Account as of such date. In addition, from and after the date funds are so deposited, the Subordination Agent shall make withdrawals from such account as follows:
     (i) on each Distribution Date, the Subordination Agent shall, to the extent it shall not have received funds to pay accrued and unpaid interest due and owing on the Class A Certificates (at the applicable Stated Interest Rate for the Class A Certificates) after giving effect to the subordination provisions of this Agreement, withdraw from the Cash Collateral Account, and pay to the Class A Trustee, an amount equal to the lesser of (x) an amount necessary to pay accrued and unpaid interest (at the applicable Stated Interest Rate for the Class A Certificates) on such Class A Certificates and (y) the amount on deposit in the Cash Collateral Account;
     (ii) [Reserved];
     (iii) on each date on which the Pool Balance of the Class A Trust shall have been reduced by payments made to the Class A Certificateholders pursuant to Section 3.2 hereof, the Subordination Agent shall withdraw from the Cash Collateral Account such amount as is necessary so that, after giving effect to the reduction of the Pool Balance on such date (and any reduction in the amounts on deposit in the Cash Collateral Account
 
resulting from a prior withdrawal of amounts on deposit in the Cash Collateral Account on such date) and any transfer of Investment Earnings from the Cash Collateral Account to the Collection Account or the Special Payments Account on such date, an amount equal to the sum of the Required Amount plus (if on a Distribution Date not coinciding with an Interest Payment Date) Investment Earnings on deposit in the Cash Collateral Account (after giving effect to any such transfer of Investment Earnings) will be on deposit in the Cash Collateral Account and shall first, pay such withdrawn amount to the Liquidity Provider until the Liquidity Obligations owing to the Liquidity Provider shall have been paid in full, and second, deposit any remaining withdrawn amount in the Collection Account;
     (iv) [Reserved];
     (v) if a Replacement Liquidity Facility shall be delivered to the Subordination Agent following the date on which funds have been deposited into the Cash Collateral Account, the Subordination Agent shall withdraw all amounts on deposit in such Cash Collateral Account and shall pay such amounts to the replaced Liquidity Provider until all Liquidity Obligations owed to such Person shall have been paid in full, and shall deposit any remaining amount in the Collection Account; and
     (vi) following the payment of Final Distributions with respect to the Class A Certificates, on the date on which the Subordination Agent shall have been notified by the Liquidity Provider that the Liquidity Obligations owed to the Liquidity Provider have been paid in full, the Subordination Agent shall withdraw all amounts on deposit in the Cash Collateral Account and shall deposit such amount in the Collection Account.
          (g) . With respect to any Interest Drawing under the Liquidity Facility, upon the reimbursement of the Liquidity Provider for all or any part of the amount of such Interest Drawing, together with any accrued interest thereon, the Available Amount of the Liquidity Facility shall be reinstated by an amount equal to the amount of such Interest Drawing so reimbursed but not to exceed the Stated Amount for the Liquidity Facility; , , that the Liquidity Facility shall not be so reinstated in part or in full at any time if (x) both a Performing Note Deficiency exists and a Liquidity Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing with respect to the Liquidity Facility or (y) a Final Drawing, a Non-Extension Drawing, a Downgrade Drawing or a Special Termination Drawing shall have occurred with respect to the Liquidity Facility or an Interest Drawing shall have been converted into a Final Drawing. In the event that, with respect to the Liquidity Facility, (i) funds are withdrawn from the Cash Collateral Account pursuant to clause (i) or (ii) of Section 3.5(f) hereof or (ii) the Liquidity Facility shall become a Downgraded Facility or a Non-Extended Facility at a time when unreimbursed Interest Drawings under the Liquidity Facility have reduced the Available Amount thereunder to zero, then funds received by the Subordination Agent at any time other than (x) any time when a Liquidity Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing and a Performing Note Deficiency exists or (y) any time after a Final Drawing shall have occurred with respect to the Liquidity Facility or an Interest Drawing shall have been converted into a Final Drawing, shall be deposited in the Cash Collateral Account as and to the extent provided in clause "fourth" of Section 3.2 and applied in accordance with Section 3.5(f) hereof.
Reinstatement
provided
however
 
          (h) . The amount of each drawing under the Liquidity Facility shall be due and payable, together with interest thereon, on the dates and at the rates, respectively, provided in the Liquidity Facility.
Reimbursement
          (i) . Upon receipt from the Liquidity Provider of the Termination Notice with respect to the Liquidity Facility, the Subordination Agent shall, not later than the date specified in such Termination Notice, in accordance with the terms of the Liquidity Facility, request a drawing under the Liquidity Facility of all available and undrawn amounts thereunder (a ""). Amounts drawn pursuant to a Final Drawing shall be maintained and invested in accordance with Section 3.5(f) hereof.
Final Drawing
Final Drawing
          (j) . Promptly following each date on which the Required Amount of the Liquidity Facility is reduced as a result of a reduction in the Pool Balance with respect to the Class A Certificates or otherwise, the Stated Amount of the Liquidity Facility shall automatically be adjusted to an amount equal to the Required Amount with respect to the Liquidity Facility (as calculated by the Subordination Agent after giving effect to such payment).
Adjustments of Stated Amount
          (k) . Upon receipt from any Liquidity Provider of the Special Termination Notice with respect to the Liquidity Facility, the Subordination Agent shall, not later than the date specified in the Special Termination Notice, in accordance with the terms of the Liquidity Facility, request a drawing under such Liquidity Facility of all available and undrawn amounts thereunder (a ""). Amounts drawn pursuant to a Special Termination Drawing shall be maintained and invested in accordance with Section 3.5(f) hereof.
Special Termination Drawing
Special Termination Drawing
          (l) . Interest Drawings under the Liquidity Facility and withdrawals from the Cash Collateral Account will be distributed to the Trustee for the Class A Certificates, notwithstanding Section 3.2 hereof.
Relation to Subordination Provisions
          (m) . The Subordination Agent agrees not to consent to the assignment by the Liquidity Provider of any of its rights or obligations under the Liquidity Facility or any interest therein, unless (i) Southwest shall have consented to such assignment and (ii) each Rating Agency shall have provided a Ratings Confirmation in respect of such assignment; , that the Subordination Agent shall consent to such assignment if the conditions in the foregoing clauses (i) and (ii) are satisfied, and the foregoing is not intended to and shall not be construed to limit the rights of the initial Liquidity Provider under Section 3.5(c) or 3.5(e)(ii).
Assignment of Liquidity Facility
provided
          SECTION 4.1. . (a) (i) Following the occurrence and during the continuation of an Indenture Default under any Indenture, the Controlling Party (except as otherwise provided in Section 2.6(d)) shall direct the Subordination Agent, as the holder of Equipment Notes issued under such Indenture, which in turn shall direct
Directions from the Controlling Party
 
the Loan Trustee under such Indenture, in the exercise of remedies available to the holder of such Equipment Notes, including, without limitation, the ability to vote all such Equipment Notes held by the Subordination Agent in favor of Accelerating such Equipment Notes in accordance with the provisions of such Indenture. If the Equipment Notes issued pursuant to any Indenture and held by the Subordination Agent have been Accelerated following an Indenture Default with respect thereto, the Controlling Party may direct the Subordination Agent to sell, assign, contract to sell or otherwise dispose of and deliver all (but not less than all) of such Equipment Notes to any Person at public or private sale, at any location at the option of the Controlling Party, all upon such terms and conditions as it may reasonably deem advisable in accordance with applicable law.
          (ii) Following the occurrence and during the continuation of an Indenture Default under any Indenture, in the exercise of remedies pursuant to such Indenture, the Loan Trustee under such Indenture may be directed to lease the related Aircraft to any Person (including Southwest) so long as the Loan Trustee in doing so acts in a "commercially reasonable" manner within the meaning of Article 9 of the Uniform Commercial Code as in effect in any applicable jurisdiction (including Sections 9-610 and 9-627 thereof).
          (iii) Notwithstanding the foregoing, so long as any Certificates remain Outstanding, during the period ending on the date which is nine months after the earlier of (x) the Acceleration of the Equipment Notes issued pursuant to any Indenture and (y) the occurrence of a Southwest Bankruptcy Event, without the consent of each Trustee, no Aircraft subject to the Lien of such Indenture or such Equipment Notes may be sold if the net proceeds from such sale would be less than the Minimum Sale Price for such Aircraft or such Equipment Notes.
          (iv) Upon the occurrence and continuation of an Indenture Default under any Indenture, the Subordination Agent will obtain three desktop appraisals from the Appraisers selected by the Controlling Party setting forth the current market value, current lease rate and distressed value (in each case, as defined by the International Society of Transport Aircraft Trading or any successor organization) of the Aircraft subject to such Indenture (each such appraisal, an "" and the current market value appraisals being referred to herein as the ""). For so long as any Indenture Default shall be continuing under any Indenture, and without limiting the right of the Controlling Party to request more frequent Appraisals, the Subordination Agent will obtain updated Appraisals on the date that is 364 days from the date of the most recent Appraisal (or if a Southwest Bankruptcy Event shall have occurred and is continuing, on the date that is 180 days from the date of the most recent Appraisal).
Appraisal
Post-Default Appraisals
          (b) Following the occurrence and during the continuance of an Indenture Default under any Indenture, the Controlling Party shall take such actions as it may reasonably deem most effectual to complete the sale or other disposition of the relevant Aircraft or Equipment Notes. In addition, in lieu of any sale, assignment, contract to sell or other disposition, the Controlling Party may maintain or cause the Subordination Agent to maintain possession of such Equipment Notes and continue to apply monies received in respect of such Equipment Notes in accordance with Article III hereof. In addition, in lieu of such sale, assignment, contract to sell or other disposition, or in lieu of such maintenance of possession, the Controlling Party may, subject to the terms and conditions of the related Indenture, instruct the
 
Loan Trustee under such Indenture to foreclose on the Lien on the related Aircraft or to take any other remedial action permitted under such Indenture or under any applicable law.
          (c) If following a Southwest Bankruptcy Event and during the pendency thereof, the Controlling Party receives a proposal from or on behalf of Southwest to restructure the financing of any one or more of the Aircraft, the Controlling Party shall promptly thereafter give the Subordination Agent and each Trustee notice of the material economic terms and conditions of such restructuring proposal whereupon the Subordination Agent acting on behalf of each Trustee shall endeavor using reasonable commercial efforts to make such terms and conditions of such restructuring proposal available to all Certificateholders (whether by posting on DTC's Internet board or otherwise) and the Liquidity Provider. Thereafter, neither the Subordination Agent nor any Trustee, whether acting on instructions of the Controlling Party or otherwise, may, without the consent of each other Trustee and the Liquidity Provider, enter into any term sheet, stipulation or other agreement (whether in the form of an adequate protection stipulation, an extension under Section 1110(b) of the Bankruptcy Code or otherwise) to effect any such restructuring proposal with or on behalf of Southwest unless and until the material economic terms and conditions of such restructuring shall have been made available to all Certificateholders and the Liquidity Provider for a period of not less than 15 calendar days (except that such requirement shall not apply to any such term sheet, stipulation or other agreement that is entered into on or prior to the expiry of the 60-Day Period and that is effective for a period not longer than three months from the expiry of the 60-Day Period). In the event that any Certificateholder gives irrevocable notice of the exercise of (i) its right to purchase any Equipment Notes pursuant to Section 2.7 hereof or (ii) its right to purchase all (but not less than all) of the Class of Certificates represented by the then Controlling Party pursuant to the applicable Trust Agreement, in either case, prior to the expiry of the 15-day notice period specified above, such Controlling Party may not direct the Subordination Agent or any Trustee to enter into (i) in the case of such purchase of Equipment Notes, any such restructuring proposal with respect to the Aircraft related to such Equipment Notes, or (ii) in the case of such purchase of Certificates, any such restructuring proposal with respect to any of the Aircraft, in either case, unless and until such Certificateholder shall fail to purchase such Equipment Notes or Class of Certificates, as applicable, on the date that it is required to make such purchase.
          SECTION 4.2. . Each and every right, power and remedy given to the Trustees, the Liquidity Provider, the Controlling Party or the Subordination Agent specifically or otherwise in this Agreement shall be cumulative and shall be in addition to every other right, power and remedy herein specifically given or now or hereafter existing at law, in equity or by statute, and each and every right, power and remedy whether specifically herein given or otherwise existing may, subject always to the terms and conditions hereof, be exercised from time to time and as often and in such order as may be deemed expedient by any Trustee, any Liquidity Provider, the Controlling Party or the Subordination Agent, as appropriate, and the exercise or the beginning of the exercise of any power or remedy shall not be construed to be a waiver of the right to exercise at the same time or thereafter any other right, power or remedy. No delay or omission by any Trustee, any Liquidity Provider, the Controlling Party or the Subordination Agent in the exercise of any right, remedy or power or in the pursuit of any remedy shall impair any such right, power or remedy or be construed to be a waiver of any default or to be an acquiescence therein.
Remedies Cumulative
 
          SECTION 4.3. . In case any party to this Agreement (including the Controlling Party in such capacity) shall have instituted any Proceeding to enforce any right, power or remedy under this Agreement by foreclosure, entry or otherwise, and such Proceeding shall have been discontinued or abandoned for any reason or shall have been determined adversely to the Person instituting such Proceeding, then and in every such case each such party shall, subject to any determination in such Proceeding, be restored to its former position and rights hereunder, and all rights, remedies and powers of such party shall continue as if no such Proceeding had been instituted.
Discontinuance of Proceedings
          SECTION 4.4. . Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, the right of any Certificateholder (subject to the applicable Trust Agreement) or the Liquidity Provider, respectively, to receive payments hereunder (including without limitation pursuant to Section 3.2 hereof) when due, or to institute suit for the enforcement of any such payment on or after the applicable Distribution Date, shall not be impaired or affected without the consent of such Certificateholder or the Liquidity Provider, respectively.
Right of Certificateholders and the Liquidity Provider to Receive Payments Not to Be Impaired
          SECTION 4.5. . In any Proceeding for the enforcement of any right or remedy under this Agreement or in any Proceeding against any Controlling Party or the Subordination Agent for any action taken or omitted by it as Controlling Party or Subordination Agent, as the case may be, a court in its discretion may require the filing by any party litigant in the suit of an undertaking to pay the costs of the suit, and the court in its discretion may assess reasonable costs, including reasonable attorneys' fees and expenses, against any party litigant in the suit, having due regard to the merits and good faith of the claims or defenses made by the party litigant. The provisions of this Section do not apply to a suit instituted by the Subordination Agent, the Liquidity Provider or a Trustee or a suit by Certificateholders holding more than 10% of the original principal amount of any Class of Certificates.
Undertaking for Costs
          SECTION 5.1. . (a) In the event the Subordination Agent shall have actual knowledge of the occurrence of an Indenture Default or a Triggering Event, as promptly as practicable, and in any event within 10 days after obtaining knowledge thereof, the Subordination Agent shall transmit by mail or courier to the Rating Agencies, the Liquidity Provider and the Trustees notice of such Indenture Default or Triggering Event, unless such Indenture Default or Triggering Event shall have been cured or waived. For all purposes of this Agreement, in the absence of actual knowledge on the part of a Responsible Officer, the Subordination Agent shall not be deemed to have knowledge of any Indenture Default or Triggering Event unless notified in writing by one or more Trustees, one or more of the Liquidity Provider or one or more Certificateholders.
Notice of Indenture Default or Triggering Event
 
          (b) . The Subordination Agent will furnish to the Liquidity Provider and each Trustee, promptly upon receipt thereof, duplicates or copies of all reports, notices, requests, demands, certificates, financial statements and other instruments furnished to the Subordination Agent as registered holder of the Equipment Notes or otherwise in its capacity as Subordination Agent to the extent the same shall not have been otherwise directly distributed to such Liquidity Provider or Trustee, as applicable, pursuant to the express provision of any other Operative Agreement.
Other Notices
          (c) . Upon the occurrence of an Indenture Default, the Subordination Agent shall instruct the Trustees to, and the Trustees shall, request that DTC post on its Internet bulletin board a securities position listing setting forth the names of all the parties reflected on DTC's books as holding interests in the Certificates.
Securities Position
          (d) . Promptly after the occurrence of a Triggering Event or an Indenture Default resulting from the failure of Southwest to make payments on any Equipment Note and on every Regular Distribution Date while the Triggering Event or such Indenture Default shall be continuing, the Subordination Agent will provide to the Trustee, the Liquidity Provider, the Rating Agencies and Southwest a statement setting forth the following information:
Reports
               (i) after a Southwest Bankruptcy Event, with respect to each Aircraft, whether such Aircraft is (A) subject to the 60-Day Period, (B) subject to an election by Southwest under Section 1110(a) of the Bankruptcy Code, (C) covered by an agreement contemplated by Section 1110(b) of the Bankruptcy Code or (D) not subject to any of (A), (B) or (C);
               (ii) to the best of the Subordination Agent's knowledge, after requesting such information from Southwest, (A) whether the Aircraft are currently in service or parked in storage, (B) the maintenance status of the Aircraft and (C) the location of the Engines (as defined in the Indentures);
               (iii) the current Pool Balances of the Certificates, the Preferred B Pool Balance and outstanding principal amount of all Equipment Notes;
               (iv) the expected amount of interest which will have accrued on the Equipment Notes and on the Certificates as of the next Regular Distribution Date;
               (v) the amounts paid to each Person on such Distribution Date pursuant to this Agreement;
               (vi) details of the amounts paid on such Distribution Date identified by reference to the relevant provision of this Agreement and the source of payment (by Aircraft and party);
               (vii) if the Subordination Agent has made a Final Drawing under the Liquidity Facility;
               (viii) the amounts currently owed to the Liquidity Provider;
 
               (ix) the amounts drawn under the Liquidity Facility; and
               (x) after a Southwest Bankruptcy Event, any operational reports filed by Southwest with the bankruptcy court which are available to the Subordination Agent on a non-confidential basis.
          SECTION 5.2. . The Subordination Agent shall not be required to take any action or refrain from taking any action under Section 5.1 (other than the first sentence thereof) or Article IV hereof unless the Subordination Agent shall have been indemnified (to the extent and in the manner reasonably satisfactory to the Subordination Agent) against any liability, cost or expense (including counsel fees and expenses) which may be incurred in connection therewith. The Subordination Agent shall not be under any obligation to take any action under this Agreement and nothing contained in this Agreement shall require the Subordination Agent to expend or risk its own funds or otherwise incur any financial liability in the performance of any of its duties hereunder or in the exercise of any of its rights or powers if it shall have reasonable grounds for believing that repayment of such funds or adequate indemnity against such risk or liability is not reasonably assured to it. The Subordination Agent shall not be required to take any action under Section 5.1 (other than the first sentence thereof) or Article IV hereof, nor shall any other provision of this Agreement be deemed to impose a duty on the Subordination Agent to take any action, if the Subordination Agent shall have been advised by counsel that such action is contrary to the terms hereof or is otherwise contrary to law.
Indemnification
          SECTION 5.3. . The Subordination Agent shall not have any duty or obligation to take or refrain from taking any action under, or in connection with, this Agreement, except as expressly provided by the terms of this Agreement; and no implied duties or obligations shall be read into this Agreement against the Subordination Agent. The Subordination Agent agrees that it will, in its individual capacity and at its own cost and expense (but without any right of indemnity in respect of any such cost or expense under Section 5.2 or 7.1 hereof) promptly take such action as may be necessary to duly discharge all Liens on any of the Trust Accounts or any monies deposited therein which result from claims against it in its individual capacity not related to its activities hereunder or any other Operative Agreement.
No Duties Except as Specified in Intercreditor Agreement
          SECTION 5.4. . If the Liquidity Provider or Trustee has notice of an Indenture Default or a Triggering Event, such Person shall promptly give notice thereof to all other Trustees, to the Liquidity Provider (if a Trustee has notice) and to the Subordination Agent, , , that no such Person shall have any liability hereunder as a result of its failure to deliver any such notice.
Notice from the Liquidity Provider and Trustees
provided
however
          SECTION 6.1. . The Class A Trustee hereby designates and appoints the Subordination Agent as the agent and trustee under
Authorization; Acceptance of Trusts and Duties
 
the Liquidity Facility and authorizes the Subordination Agent to enter into the Liquidity Facility as its agent and trustee. The Liquidity Provider and all the Trustees hereby designates and appoints the Subordination Agent as the Subordination Agent under this Agreement. WTC hereby accepts the duties hereby created and applicable to it as the Subordination Agent and agrees to perform the same but only upon the terms of this Agreement and agrees to receive and disburse all monies received by it in accordance with the terms hereof. The Subordination Agent shall not be answerable or accountable under any circumstances, except (a) for its own willful misconduct or gross negligence (or ordinary negligence in the handling of funds), (b) as provided in Sections 2.2 or 5.3 hereof and (c) for liabilities that may result from the material inaccuracy of any representation or warranty of the Subordination Agent made in its individual capacity in any Operative Agreement. The Subordination Agent shall not be liable for any error of judgment made in good faith by a Responsible Officer of the Subordination Agent, unless it is proved that the Subordination Agent was negligent in ascertaining the pertinent facts.
          SECTION 6.2. . The Subordination Agent shall have no duty to see to any recording or filing of this Agreement or any other document, or to see to the maintenance of any such recording or filing.
Absence of Duties
          SECTION 6.3. . The Subordination Agent in its individual capacity does not make nor shall be deemed to have made any representation or warranty as to the validity, legality or enforceability of this Agreement or any other Operative Agreement or as to the correctness of any statement contained in any thereof, except for the representations and warranties of the Subordination Agent, made in its individual capacity, under any Operative Agreement to which it is a party. The Certificateholders, the Trustees and the Liquidity Provider make no representation or warranty hereunder whatsoever.
No Representations or Warranties as to Documents
          SECTION 6.4. . Any monies paid to or retained by the Subordination Agent pursuant to any provision hereof and not then required to be distributed to any Trustee or the Liquidity Provider as provided in Articles II and III hereof or deposited into one or more Trust Accounts need not be segregated in any manner except to the extent required by such Articles II and III and by law, and the Subordination Agent shall not (except as otherwise provided in Section 2.2 hereof) be liable for any interest thereon; , , that any payments received or applied hereunder by the Subordination Agent shall be accounted for by the Subordination Agent so that any portion thereof paid or applied pursuant hereto shall be identifiable as to the source thereof.
No Segregation of Monies; No Interest
provided
however
          SECTION 6.5. . The Subordination Agent shall not incur liability to anyone in acting upon any signature, instrument, notice, resolution, request, consent, order, certificate, report, opinion, bond or other document or paper believed by it to be genuine and believed by it to be signed by the proper party or parties. As to the Pool Balance of any Trust as of any date, the Subordination Agent may for all purposes hereof rely on a certificate signed by any Responsible Officer of the applicable Trustee, and such certificate shall constitute full protection to the Subordination Agent for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in reliance thereon. As to any fact or matter relating to the Liquidity Provider or the Trustees the manner of ascertainment of which is not specifically described herein, the Subordination Agent may for all purposes hereof rely on a certificate, signed by any
Reliance; Agents; Advice of Counsel
 
Responsible Officer of the Liquidity Provider or Trustee, as the case may be, as to such fact or matter, and such certificate shall constitute full protection to the Subordination Agent for any action taken or omitted to be taken by it in good faith in reliance thereon. The Subordination Agent shall assume, and shall be fully protected in assuming, that the Liquidity Provider and each of the Trustees are authorized to enter into this Agreement and to take all action to be taken by them pursuant to the provisions hereof, and shall not inquire into the authorization of the Liquidity Provider and the Trustees with respect thereto. In the administration of the trusts hereunder, the Subordination Agent may execute any of the trusts or powers hereof and perform its powers and duties hereunder directly or through agents or attorneys and may consult with counsel, accountants and other skilled persons to be selected and retained by it, and the Subordination Agent shall not be liable for the acts or omissions of any agent appointed with due care or for anything done, suffered or omitted in good faith by it in accordance with the advice or written opinion of any such counsel, accountants or other skilled persons.
          SECTION 6.6. . The Subordination Agent acts hereunder solely as agent and trustee herein and not in its individual capacity, except as otherwise expressly provided in the Operative Agreements.
Capacity in Which Acting
          SECTION 6.7. . The Subordination Agent shall be entitled to reasonable compensation, including expenses and disbursements, except with respect to any Unindemnified Taxes, for all services rendered hereunder and shall have a priority claim to the extent set forth in Article III hereof on all monies collected hereunder for the payment of such compensation (other than Unindemnified Taxes), to the extent that such compensation shall not be paid by others. The Subordination Agent agrees that it shall have no right against any Trustee or the Liquidity Provider for any fee as compensation for its services as agent under this Agreement. The provisions of this Section 6.7 shall survive the termination of this Agreement.
Compensation
          SECTION 6.8. . The institution acting as Subordination Agent hereunder may become a Certificateholder and have all rights and benefits of a Certificateholder to the same extent as if it were not the institution acting as the Subordination Agent.
May Become Certificateholder
          SECTION 6.9. . There shall at all times be a Subordination Agent hereunder which shall be a bank, trust company, corporation or other financial institution organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America or of any State or the District of Columbia having a combined capital and surplus of at least $100,000,000 (or the obligations of which, whether now in existence or hereafter incurred, are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by a corporation organized and doing business under the laws of the United States of America, any State thereof or of the District of Columbia and having a combined capital and surplus of at least $100,000,000), if there is such an institution willing and able to perform the duties of the Subordination Agent hereunder upon reasonable or customary terms. Such financial institution shall be a citizen of the United States and shall be authorized under the laws of the United States or any State thereof or of the District of Columbia to exercise corporate trust powers and shall be subject to supervision or examination by federal, state or District of Columbia authorities. If such financial institution publishes reports of condition at least annually, pursuant to law or to the requirements of any of the aforesaid supervising or examining authorities, then, for the purposes of this Section 6.9, the combined
Subordination Agent Required; Eligibility
 
capital and surplus of such financial institution shall be deemed to be its combined capital and surplus as set forth in its most recent report of condition so published.
          In case at any time the Subordination Agent shall cease to be eligible in accordance with the provisions of this Section, the Subordination Agent shall resign immediately in the manner and with the effect specified in Section 8.1.
          SECTION 6.10. . All Equipment Notes, monies and other property deposited with or held by the Subordination Agent pursuant to this Agreement shall be held in trust for the benefit of the parties entitled to such Equipment Notes, monies and other property. All such Equipment Notes, monies or other property shall be held in the Trust Department of the institution acting as Subordination Agent hereunder.
Money to Be Held in Trust
          SECTION 7.1. . The Subordination Agent shall be indemnified hereunder to the extent and in the manner described in Section 8.1 of the Participation Agreements. The indemnities contained in such Section shall survive the termination of this Agreement.
Scope of Indemnification
          SECTION 8.1. . The Subordination Agent may resign at any time by so notifying the Trustees and the Liquidity Provider. The Controlling Party may remove the Subordination Agent for cause by so notifying the Subordination Agent and may appoint a successor Subordination Agent. The Controlling Party shall remove the Subordination Agent if:
Replacement of Subordination Agent; Appointment of Successor
     (1) the Subordination Agent fails to comply with Section 6.9 hereof;
     (2) the Subordination Agent is adjudged bankrupt or insolvent;
     (3) a receiver or other public officer takes charge of the Subordination Agent or its property; or
     (4) the Subordination Agent otherwise becomes incapable of acting.
          If the Subordination Agent resigns or is removed or if a vacancy exists in the office of Subordination Agent for any reason (the Subordination Agent in such event being referred to herein as the retiring Subordination Agent), the Controlling Party shall promptly appoint a successor Subordination Agent.
 
          A successor Subordination Agent shall deliver (x) a written acceptance of its appointment as Subordination Agent hereunder to the retiring Subordination Agent and (y) a written assumption of its obligations hereunder and under the Liquidity Facility to each party hereto, upon which the resignation or removal of the retiring Subordination Agent shall become effective, and the successor Subordination Agent shall have all the rights, powers and duties of the Subordination Agent under this Agreement. The successor Subordination Agent shall mail a notice of its succession to the Liquidity Provider and the Trustees. The retiring Subordination Agent shall promptly transfer its rights under the Liquidity Facility and all of the property held by it as Subordination Agent to the successor Subordination Agent.
          If a successor Subordination Agent does not take office within 60 days after the retiring Subordination Agent resigns or is removed, the retiring Subordination Agent or one or more of the Trustees may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the appointment of a successor Subordination Agent.
          If the Subordination Agent fails to comply with Section 6.9 hereof (to the extent applicable), one or more of the Trustees or the Liquidity Provider may petition any court of competent jurisdiction for the removal of the Subordination Agent and the appointment of a successor Subordination Agent.
          Notwithstanding the foregoing, no resignation or removal of the Subordination Agent shall be effective unless and until a successor has been appointed. No appointment of a successor Subordination Agent shall be effective unless and until the Rating Agencies shall have delivered a Ratings Confirmation.
          SECTION 9.1. . (a) This Agreement may not be supplemented, amended or modified without the consent of each Trustee (acting, except in the case of any amendment pursuant to Section 3.5(e)(v)(y) hereof with respect to any Replacement Liquidity Facility or any amendment contemplated by the last sentence of this Section 9.1(a), with the consent of holders of the Class A Certificates evidencing interests in the Class A Trust aggregating not less than a majority in interest in such Trust or as otherwise authorized pursuant to the relevant Trust Agreement), the Subordination Agent and the Liquidity Provider; , , that this Agreement may be supplemented, amended or modified without the consent of any Trustee, the Subordination Agent and the Liquidity Provider if such supplement, amendment or modification (i) is in accordance with Section 9.1(c) or Section 9.1(d) hereof or (ii) cures an ambiguity or inconsistency or does not materially adversely affect such Trustee or the holders of the related Class of Certificates or the Liquidity Provider; , , that, if such supplement, amendment or modification (A) would (x) directly or indirectly modify or supersede, or otherwise conflict with, Section 2.2(b), Section 2.4, Section 3.2, Section 3.5(e), Section 3.5(f)(other than the last sentence thereof), Section 3.5(l), the last sentence of this Section 9.1(a), Section 9.1(c), Section 9.1(d), the second sentence of Section 10.6 or this proviso (collectively, the "") or (y) otherwise adversely affect
Amendments, Waivers, etc
provided
however
provided
further
however
Southwest Provisions
 
the interests of a potential Replacement Liquidity Provider or of Southwest with respect to its ability to replace the Liquidity Facility or with respect to its payment obligations under any Operative Agreement or (B) is made pursuant to the last sentence of this Section 9.1(a) or pursuant to Section 9.1(c) or Section 9.1(d), then such supplement, amendment or modification shall not be effective without the additional written consent of Southwest. Notwithstanding the foregoing, without the consent of each Certificateholder and the Liquidity Provider, no supplement, amendment or modification of this Agreement may (i) reduce the percentage of the interest in any Trust evidenced by the Certificates issued by such Trust necessary to consent to modify or amend any provision of this Agreement or to waive compliance therewith or (ii) except as provided in this Section 9.1(a), Section 9.1(c) or Section 9.1(d), modify Section 2.4 or 3.2 hereof, relating to the distribution of monies received by the Subordination Agent hereunder from the Equipment Notes or pursuant to the Liquidity Facility. Nothing contained in this Section shall require the consent of a Trustee at any time following the payment of Final Distributions with respect to the related Class of Certificates. If the Replacement Liquidity Facility for the Liquidity Facility in accordance with Section 3.5(c) or (e) hereof is to be comprised of more than one instrument as contemplated by the definition of the term "Replacement Liquidity Facility", then each of the parties hereto agrees to amend this Agreement to incorporate appropriate mechanics for multiple Liquidity Facilities for an individual Trust.
          (b) In the event that the Subordination Agent, as the registered holder of any Equipment Notes, receives a request for the giving of any notice or for its consent to any amendment, supplement, modification, consent or waiver under such Equipment Notes, the Indenture pursuant to which such Equipment Notes were issued, or the related Participation Agreement or other related document, (i) if no Indenture Default shall have occurred and be continuing with respect to such Indenture, the Subordination Agent shall request directions with respect to each Series of such Equipment Notes from the Trustee of the Trust which holds such Equipment Notes and shall vote or consent in accordance with the directions of such Trustee, and (ii) if any Indenture Default shall have occurred and be continuing with respect to such Indenture, the Subordination Agent will exercise its voting rights with respect to such Equipment Notes as directed by the Controlling Party (subject to Sections 4.1 and 4.4 hereof); provided that no such amendment, modification or waiver shall, without the consent of each affected Certificateholder and the Liquidity Provider, reduce the amount of principal or interest payable by Southwest under any Equipment Note or change the time of payments or method of calculation of any amount under any Equipment Note.
          (c) If Series B Equipment Notes (or any series of Additional Equipment Notes) issued with respect to all of the Aircraft are redeemed and re-issued in accordance with the terms of Section 2.11(b) of each Indenture, such series of re-issued Equipment Notes (the "") shall be issued to a new pass through trust (a "") that issues a class of pass through certificates (the "") to certificateholders (the "") pursuant to a pass through trust agreement (a "") with a trustee (a ""). A Refinancing Trust, a Refinancing Trustee and the Refinancing Certificates shall be subject to all of the provisions of this Agreement in the same manner as the Trust, the Trustee and the Certificates of the Class corresponding to the series of the refinanced Equipment Notes, including, the subordination of the Refinancing Certificates to the Administration Expenses, the Liquidity Obligations, the Class A Certificates and, if applicable, the Class B Certificates. Such
Refinancing Equipment Notes
Refinancing Trust
Refinancing Certificates
Refinancing Certificateholders
Refinancing Trust Agreement
Refinancing Trustee
 
issuance of Refinancing Equipment Notes and Refinancing Certificates and the amendment of this Agreement as provided below shall require Ratings Confirmation and shall not materially adversely affect any of the Trustees. This Agreement shall be amended by written agreement of Southwest and the Subordination Agent to give effect to the issuance of the Refinancing Certificates subject to the following terms and conditions:
     (i) the Refinancing Trustee shall be added as a party to this Agreement;
     (ii) the definitions of "Certificate", "Class", "Class B Certificates" (if applicable), "Final Legal Distribution Date", "Trust", "Trust Agreement" and "Controlling Party" (and such other applicable definitions) shall be revised, as appropriate, to reflect such issuance (and the subordination of the Refinancing Certificates and the Refinancing Equipment Notes);
     (iii) the Refinancing Certificates may have the benefit of credit support similar to the Liquidity Facility and claims for fees, interest, expenses, reimbursement of advances and other obligations arising from such credit support may rank pari passu with similar claims in respect of the Liquidity Facility so long as Ratings Confirmation and the prior written consent of the Liquidity Provider shall have been obtained;
     (iv) the Refinancing Certificates cannot be issued to Southwest but may be issued to any of Southwest's Affiliates so long as such Affiliate shall have bankruptcy remote and special purpose provisions in its certificate of incorporation or other organizational documents and any subsequent transfer of the Refinancing Certificates to any Affiliate of Southwest shall be similarly restricted; and
     (v) the scheduled payment dates on the Refinancing Equipment Notes shall be on the Regular Distribution Dates.
          The issuance of the Refinancing Certificates in compliance with all of the foregoing terms of this Section 9.1(c) shall not require the consent of any of the Trustees or the holders of any Class of Certificates. The Liquidity Provider hereby agrees and confirms that it shall be deemed to consent to any issuance and amendment in accordance with this Section 9.1(c) (subject to the Liquidity Provider's consent right in Section 9.1(c)(iii)) and any such issuance and amendment shall not affect any of its respective obligations under the Liquidity Facility.
          (d) Pursuant to the terms of Section 2.02 of each Indenture, one or more additional series of Equipment Notes (the ""), which shall be subordinated in right of payment to the Series A Equipment Notes and the Series B Equipment Notes under such Indenture, may be issued at any time and from time to time. If any series of Additional Equipment Notes is issued under any Indenture, such series of Additional Equipment Notes shall be issued to a new pass through trust (an "") that issues a class of pass through certificates (the "") to certificateholders (the "") pursuant to a pass through trust agreement (an "") with a trustee (an ""). In such case, this Agreement shall be amended by written agreement of Southwest and the Subordination Agent to provide for the
Additional Equipment Notes
Additional Trust
Additional Certificates
Additional Certificateholders
Additional Trust Agreement
Additional Trustee
 
subordination of the Additional Certificates to the Administration Expenses, the Liquidity Obligations, the Class A Certificates and the Class B Certificates and, if applicable, any previously issued class (or classes) of Additional Certificates (in order of their issuance) (subject to clause (iii) below). Such issuance and the amendment of this Agreement as provided below shall require Ratings Confirmation and shall not materially adversely affect any of the Trustees. This Agreement shall be amended by written agreement of Southwest and the Subordination Agent to give effect to the issuance of any Additional Certificates subject to the following terms and conditions:
          (i) the Additional Trustee shall be added as a party to this Agreement;
          (ii) the definitions of "Certificate", "Class", "Equipment Notes", "Final Legal Distribution Date", "Trust", "Trust Agreement" and "Controlling Party" (and such other applicable definitions) shall be revised, as appropriate, to reflect the issuance of the Additional Certificates (and the subordination thereof);
          (iii) Section 3.2 may be revised, with respect to each Class of Additional Certificates, to provide for the distribution of "Adjusted Interest" for such Class of Additional Certificates (calculated in a manner substantially similar to the calculation of Class B Adjusted Interest) after the Class B Adjusted Interest but before Expected Distributions on the Class A Certificates (it being understood that the Rating Agencies, in connection with providing a Ratings Confirmation, may require that such class of Additional Certificates be rated);
          (iv) the Additional Certificates may have the benefit of credit support similar to the Liquidity Facility and claims for fees, interest, expenses, reimbursement of advances and other obligations arising from such credit support may rank pari passu with similar claims in respect of the Liquidity Facility so long as Ratings Confirmation and the prior written consent of the Liquidity Provider shall have been obtained;
          (v) the Additional Certificates cannot be issued to Southwest but may be issued to any of Southwest's Affiliates so long as such Affiliate shall have bankruptcy remote and special purpose provisions in its certificate of incorporation or other organizational documents and any subsequent transfer of the Additional Certificates to any Affiliate of Southwest shall be similarly restricted;
          (vi) the provisions of this Agreement governing payments with respect to Certificates and related notices, including Sections 2.4, 3.1 and 3.2, shall be revised to provide for distributions on such class of the Additional Certificates after payment of Administration Expenses, the Liquidity Obligations, the Class A Certificates and the Class B Certificates (and, if applicable, any previously issued class (or classes) of Additional Certificates (in order of their issuance)), subject to clause (iii) above; and
          (vii) the scheduled payment dates on such series of Additional Equipment Notes shall be on the Regular Distribution Dates.
          The issuance of the Additional Certificates in compliance with all of the foregoing terms of this Section 9.1(d) shall not require the consent of any of the Trustees or the holders of any Class of Certificates. The Liquidity Provider hereby agrees and confirms that it shall be
 
deemed to consent to any issuance and amendment in accordance with this Section 9.1(d) (subject to the Liquidity Provider's consent right in Section 9.1(d)(iv)) and any such issuance and amendment shall not affect any of its respective obligations under the Liquidity Facility.
          SECTION 9.2. . If, in the reasonable opinion of the institution acting as the Subordination Agent hereunder, any document required to be executed pursuant to the terms of Section 9.1 affects any right, duty, immunity or indemnity with respect to it under this Agreement or the Liquidity Facility, the Subordination Agent may in its discretion decline to execute such document.
Subordination Agent Protected
          SECTION 9.3. . Upon the execution of any amendment, consent or supplement hereto pursuant to the provisions hereof, this Agreement shall be and be deemed to be and shall be modified and amended in accordance therewith and the respective rights, limitations of rights, obligations, duties and immunities under this Agreement of the parties hereto and beneficiaries hereof shall thereafter be determined, exercised and enforced hereunder subject in all respects to such modifications and amendments, and all the terms and conditions of any such supplemental agreement shall be and be deemed to be and shall be part of the terms and conditions of this Agreement for any and all purposes. In executing or accepting any supplemental agreement permitted by this Article IX, the Subordination Agent shall be entitled to receive, and shall be fully protected in relying upon, an opinion of counsel stating that the execution of such supplemental agreement is authorized or permitted by this Agreement.
Effect of Supplemental Agreements
          SECTION 9.4. . Promptly upon receipt of any amendment, consent, modification, supplement or waiver contemplated by this Article IX and prior to taking any action required to be taken thereunder, the Subordination Agent shall send a copy thereof to each Rating Agency.
Notice to Rating Agencies
          SECTION 10.1. . Following payment of Final Distributions with respect to each Class of Certificates and the payment in full of all Liquidity Obligations to the Liquidity Provider and that there shall then be no other amounts due to the Certificateholders, the Trustees, the Liquidity Provider and the Subordination Agent hereunder or under the Trust Agreements, and that the commitment of the Liquidity Provider under the Liquidity Facility shall have expired or been terminated, this Agreement and the trusts created hereby shall terminate and this Agreement shall be of no further force or effect. Except as aforesaid or otherwise provided, this Agreement and the trusts created hereby shall continue in full force and effect in accordance with the terms hereof.
Termination of Intercreditor Agreement
provided
          SECTION 10.2. . Subject to the second sentence of Section 10.6 and the provisions of Sections 4.4 and 9.1, nothing in this Agreement, whether express or implied, shall be construed to give to any Person other than the Trustees, the Liquidity Provider and the
Intercreditor Agreement for Benefit of Trustees, Liquidity Provider and Subordination Agent
 
Subordination Agent any legal or equitable right, remedy or claim under or in respect of this Agreement.
          SECTION 10.3. . Unless otherwise expressly specified or permitted by the terms hereof, all notices, requests, demands, authorizations, directions, consents, waivers or documents provided or permitted by this Agreement to be made, given, furnished or filed shall be in writing, mailed by certified mail, postage prepaid, or by confirmed telecopy and
Notices
Whenever any notice in writing is required to be given by any Trustee, Liquidity Provider or the Subordination Agent to any of the other of them, such notice shall be deemed given and such requirement satisfied when such notice is received. Any party hereto may change the address to which notices to such party will be sent by giving notice of such change to the other parties to this Agreement.
          SECTION 10.4. . Any provision of this Agreement which is prohibited or unenforceable in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition or unenforceability without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof, and any such prohibition or unenforceability in any jurisdiction shall not invalidate or render unenforceable such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability
 
          SECTION 10.5. . No terms or provisions of this Agreement may be changed, waived, discharged or terminated orally, but only by an instrument in writing signed by the party or other Person against whom enforcement of the change, waiver, discharge or termination is sought and any other party or other Person whose consent is required pursuant to this Agreement and any waiver of the terms hereof shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose given.
No Oral Modifications or Continuing Waivers
          SECTION 10.6. . All covenants and agreements contained herein shall be binding upon, and inure to the benefit of, each of the parties hereto and the successors and assigns of each, all as herein provided. In addition, the Southwest Provisions shall inure to the benefit of Southwest and its successors and assigns, and (without limitation of the foregoing) Southwest is hereby constituted, and agreed to be, an express third party beneficiary of the Southwest Provisions.
Successors and Assigns
          SECTION 10.7. . The headings of the various Articles and Sections herein and in the table of contents hereto are for convenience of reference only and shall not define or limit any of the terms or provisions hereof.
Headings
          SECTION 10.8. . This Agreement may be executed by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered shall be an original, but all such counterparts shall together constitute but one and the same agreement.
Counterpart Form
          SECTION 10.9. . (a) As between the Liquidity Provider (and any additional liquidity providers in respect of any class of Refinancing Certificates or Additional Certificates), on the one hand, and the Trustees (and any Refinancing Trustees or Additional Trustees) and the Certificateholders (and any Refinancing Certificateholders or Additional Certificateholders), on the other hand, and as among the Trustees (and any Refinancing Trustees or Additional Trustees) and the related Certificateholders (and any Refinancing Certificateholders or Additional Certificateholders), this Agreement shall be a subordination agreement for purposes of Section 510 of the United States Bankruptcy Code, as amended from time to time.
Subordination
          (b) Notwithstanding the provisions of this Agreement, if prior to the payment in full to the Liquidity Provider of all Liquidity Obligations then due and payable, any party hereto shall have received any payment or distribution in respect of Equipment Notes or any other amount under the Indentures or other Operative Agreements which, had the subordination provisions of this Agreement been properly applied to such payment, distribution or other amount, would not have been distributed to such Person, then such payment, distribution or other amount shall be received and held in trust by such Person and paid over or delivered to the Subordination Agent for application as provided herein.
          (c) If any Trustee, the Liquidity Provider or the Subordination Agent receives any payment in respect of any obligations owing hereunder (or, in the case of the Liquidity Provider, in respect of the Liquidity Obligations), which is subsequently invalidated, declared preferential, set aside and/or required to be repaid to a trustee, receiver or other party, then, to the extent of such payment, such obligations (or, in the case of the Liquidity Provider, such Liquidity
 
Obligations) intended to be satisfied shall be revived and continue in full force and effect as if such payment had not been received.
          (d) The Trustees (on behalf of themselves and the holders of Certificates), the Liquidity Provider and the Subordination Agent confirm that the payment priorities specified in Section 3.2 shall apply in all circumstances, notwithstanding the fact that the obligations owed to the Trustees and the holders of Certificates are secured by certain assets and the Liquidity Obligations may not be so secured. The Trustees expressly agree (on behalf of themselves and the holders of Certificates) not to assert priority over the holders of Liquidity Obligations (except as specifically set forth in Section 3.2) due to their status as secured creditors in any bankruptcy, insolvency or other legal proceeding.
          (e) Each of the Trustees (on behalf of themselves and the holders of Certificates), the Liquidity Provider and the Subordination Agent may take any of the following actions without impairing its rights under this Agreement:
     (i) obtain a Lien on any property to secure any amounts owing to it hereunder, including, in the case of the Liquidity Provider, the Liquidity Obligations,
     (ii) obtain the primary or secondary obligation of any other obligor with respect to any amounts owing to it hereunder, including, in the case of the Liquidity Provider, any of the Liquidity Obligations,
     (iii) renew, extend, increase, alter or exchange any amounts owing to it hereunder, including, in the case of the Liquidity Provider, any of the Liquidity Obligations, or release or compromise any obligation of any obligor with respect thereto,
     (iv) refrain from exercising any right or remedy, or delay in exercising such right or remedy, which it may have, or
     (v) take any other action which might discharge a subordinated party or a surety under applicable law;
, , that the taking of any such actions by any of the Trustees, the Liquidity Provider or the Subordination Agent shall not prejudice the rights or adversely affect the obligations of any other party under this Agreement.
provided
however
          SECTION 10.10. . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.
Governing Law
          SECTION 10.11. .
Submission to Jurisdiction; Waiver of Jury Trial; Waiver of Immunity
          (a) Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally:
     (i) submits for itself and its property in any legal action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Operative Agreement, or for recognition and enforcement
 
of any judgment in respect hereof or thereof, to the nonexclusive general jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York, the courts of the United States of America for the Southern District of New York, and the appellate courts from any thereof;
     (ii) consents that any such action or proceeding may be brought in such courts, and waives any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the venue of any such action or proceeding in any such court or that such action or proceeding was brought in an inconvenient court and agrees not to plead or claim the same;
     (iii) agrees that service of process in any such action or proceeding may be effected by mailing a copy thereof by registered or certified mail (or any substantially similar form of mail), postage prepaid, to each party hereto at its address set forth in Section 10.3 hereof, or at such other address of which the other parties shall have been notified pursuant thereto; and
     (iv) agrees that nothing herein shall affect the right to effect service of process in any other manner permitted by law or shall limit the right to sue in any other jurisdiction.
          (b) EACH OF THE PARTIES HERETO HEREBY AGREES TO WAIVE ITS RIGHT TO A JURY TRIAL OF ANY CLAIM OR CAUSE OF ACTION BASED UPON OR ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT OR ANY DEALINGS BETWEEN IT AND ANY OTHER PARTY HERETO RELATING TO THE SUBJECT MATTER OF THIS AGREEMENT AND THE RELATIONSHIP THAT IS BEING ESTABLISHED, including, without limitation, contract claims, tort claims, breach of duty claims and all other common law and statutory claims. Each of the parties warrants and represents that it has reviewed this waiver with its legal counsel, and that it knowingly and voluntarily waives its jury trial rights following consultation with such legal counsel. THIS WAIVER IS IRREVOCABLE, AND CANNOT BE MODIFIED EITHER ORALLY OR IN WRITING, AND THIS WAIVER SHALL APPLY TO ANY SUBSEQUENT AMENDMENTS, RENEWALS, SUPPLEMENTS OR MODIFICATIONS TO THIS AGREEMENT.
          (c) The Liquidity Provider hereby waives any immunity it may have from the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States of America or of any State and waives any immunity any of its properties located in the United States of America may have from attachment or execution upon a judgment entered by any such court under the United States Foreign Sovereign Immunities Act of 1976 or any similar successor legislation.
 
          IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties hereto have caused this Agreement to be duly executed by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized, as of the day and year first above written, and acknowledge that this Agreement has been made and delivered in the City of New York, and this Agreement has become effective only upon such execution and delivery.

 
Exhibit 4.12
EXECUTION COPY
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
     dated as of October 3, 2007 (this ""), between , a Delaware banking corporation, not in its individual capacity but solely as Subordination Agent under the Intercreditor Agreement (each as defined below), as agent and trustee for the Class A Trust (as defined in the Intercreditor Agreement) (the ""), and , a organized under the laws of France acting through its New York Branch (the "").
THIS REVOLVING CREDIT AGREEMENT
Agreement
WILMINGTON TRUST COMPANY
Borrower
BNP PARIBAS
socit anonyme
Liquidity Provider
     , pursuant to the Class A Trust Agreement (such term and all other capitalized terms used in these recitals having the meanings set forth or referred to in Section 1.01), the Class A Trust is issuing the Class A Certificates; and
WHEREAS
     , the Borrower, in order to support the timely payment of a portion of the interest on the Class A Certificates in accordance with their terms, has requested the Liquidity Provider to enter into this Agreement, providing in part for the Borrower to request in specified circumstances that Advances be made hereunder.
WHEREAS
     , in consideration of the premises, the parties hereto agree as follows:
NOW, THEREFORE
     Section 1.01 . (a) . As used in this Agreement and unless otherwise expressly indicated, or unless the context clearly requires otherwise, the following capitalized terms shall have the following respective meanings for all purposes of this Agreement:
Certain Defined Terms
Definitions
     "" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.01.
Additional Costs
     "" means an Interest Advance, a Final Advance, a Provider Advance, a Special Termination Advance, an Applied Special Termination Advance or an Applied Provider Advance, as the case may be.
Advance
     "" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.07(g).
Applicable Liquidity Rate
     "" means (x) with respect to any Unpaid Advance (other than an Unapplied Special Termination Advance) or Applied Provider Advance, 1.20% per annum, or (y) with respect to any Unapplied Provider Advance, the margin per annum specified in the Fee Letter, or (z) with respect to any Unapplied Special Termination Advance, the margin per annum specified in the Fee Letter.
Applicable Margin
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
     "" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.06(a).
Applied Downgrade Advance
     "" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.06(a).
Applied Non-Extension Advance
     "" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.06(a).
Applied Provider Advance
     "" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.05.
Applied Special Termination Advance
     "" means, for a day, a fluctuating interest rate per annum in effect from time to time, which rate per annum shall at all times be equal to (a) the weighted average of the rates on overnight Federal funds transactions with members of the Federal Reserve System arranged by Federal funds brokers, as published for such day (or, if such day is not a Business Day, for the preceding Business Day) by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, or if such rate is not so published for any day that is a Business Day, the average of the quotations for such day for such transactions received by the Liquidity Provider from three Federal funds brokers of recognized standing selected by it, plus (b) one-quarter of one percent (/ of 1%).
Base Rate
1
4
     "" means an Advance that bears interest at a rate based upon the Base Rate.
Base Rate Advance
     "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recital of parties to this Agreement.
Borrower
     "" means the making of Advances requested by delivery of a Notice of Borrowing.
Borrowing
     "" means any day other than a Saturday or Sunday or a day on which commercial banks are required or authorized to close in Dallas, Texas, New York, New York or, so long as any Class A Certificate is outstanding, the city and state in which the Class A Trustee, the Borrower or any Loan Trustee maintains its corporate trust office or receives or disburses funds, and, if the applicable Business Day relates to any Advance or other amount bearing interest based on the LIBOR Rate, on which dealings in dollars are carried on in the London interbank market.
Business Day
     "" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.10.
Consent Period
     "" means an Advance made pursuant to Section 2.02(c).
Downgrade Advance
     "" means a downgrading of the Liquidity Provider's short-term unsecured debt rating or short-term issuer credit rating (as applicable) issued by either Rating Agency below the applicable Threshold Rating.
Downgrade Event
     "" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 4.01. The delivery of the certificate of the Liquidity Provider contemplated by Section 4.01(e) shall be conclusive evidence that the Effective Date has occurred.
Effective Date
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
     "" means (i) Taxes imposed on, based on, or measured by the overall net income, capital, franchises or receipts (other than Taxes which are or are in the nature of sales or use Taxes or value added Taxes) of the Liquidity Provider or of its Lending Office by the jurisdiction where such Liquidity Provider's principal office or such Lending Office is located or any other taxing jurisdiction in which such Tax is imposed solely as a result of the Liquidity Provider being, or having been, organized in, or conducting, or having conducted, any activities unrelated to the transactions contemplated by the Operative Agreements in such jurisdiction, and (ii) Excluded Withholding Taxes.
Excluded Taxes
     "" means (i) withholding Taxes imposed by the United States except (but only in the case of a successor Liquidity Provider organized under the laws of a jurisdiction outside the United States) to the extent that such United States withholding Taxes are imposed or increased as a result of any change in applicable law or treaty after the date hereof, (ii) any withholding Taxes imposed by the United States which are imposed or increased as a result of the Liquidity Provider failing to deliver to the Borrower any certificate or document (which certificate or document in the good faith judgment of the Liquidity Provider it is legally entitled to provide) which is reasonably requested by the Borrower to establish that payments under this Agreement are exempt from (or entitled to a reduced rate of) withholding Tax, and (iii) withholding Taxes imposed by the United States on payments to a recipient in any other jurisdiction to which such Lending Office is moved if, under the laws in effect at the time of such move, such laws would require greater withholding of Taxes on payments to such Liquidity Provider acting from an office in such jurisdiction than would be required on payments to such Liquidity Provider acting from an office in the jurisdiction from which such Lending Office was moved.
Excluded Withholding Taxes
     "" means liabilities, obligations, damages, settlements, penalties, claims, actions, suits, costs, expenses, and disbursements (including, without limitation, reasonable fees and disbursements of legal counsel and costs of investigation), provided that Expenses shall not include any Taxes.
Expenses
     "" means October 1, 2008, initially, or any date to which the Expiry Date is extended pursuant to Section 2.10.
Expiry Date
     "" means an Advance made pursuant to Section 2.02(d).
Final Advance
     "" means generally accepted accounting principles as set forth in the statements of financial accounting standards issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board of the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, as such principles may at any time or from time to time be varied by any applicable financial accounting rules or regulations issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission and, with respect to any person, shall mean such principles applied on a basis consistent with prior periods except as may be disclosed in such person's financial statements.
GAAP
     "" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.03(a).
Indemnified Tax
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
     "" means the Intercreditor Agreement dated as of the date hereof among the Trustee, the Liquidity Provider, and the Subordination Agent, as the same may be amended, supplemented or otherwise modified from time to time in accordance with its terms.
Intercreditor Agreement
     "" means an Advance made pursuant to Section 2.02(a).
Interest Advance
     "" means, with respect to any LIBOR Advance, each of the following periods:
Interest Period
     (i) the period beginning on the third Business Day following either (x) the date of the Liquidity Provider's receipt of the Notice of Borrowing for such LIBOR Advance or (y) the date of the withdrawal of funds from the Cash Collateral Account for the purpose of paying interest on the Class A Certificates as contemplated by Section 2.06(a) hereof and, in either case, ending on the next Regular Distribution Date (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day); and
     (ii) each subsequent period commencing on the last day of the immediately preceding Interest Period and ending on the next Regular Distribution Date (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day);
provided, however, that if (x) the Final Advance shall have been made, or (y) other outstanding Advances shall have been converted into the Final Advance, then the Interest Periods shall be successive periods of one month beginning on the third Business Day following the Liquidity Provider's receipt of the Notice of Borrowing for such Final Advance (in the case of clause (x) above) or the Regular Distribution Date (or, if such day is not a Business Day, the next succeeding Business Day) following such conversion (in the case of clause (y) above).
     "" means the office of the Liquidity Provider presently located in New York, New York, or such other office as the Liquidity Provider from time to time shall notify the Borrower as its Lending Office hereunder; provided that the Liquidity Provider shall not change its Lending Office to another Lending Office outside the United States of America except in accordance with Section 3.01, 3.02, 3.03 or 3.10 hereof.
Lending Office
     "" means an Advance bearing interest at a rate based upon the LIBOR Rate.
LIBOR Advance
     "" means, with respect to any Interest Period,
LIBOR Rate
     (i) the rate per annum appearing on Bloomberg L.P. page "BBAM" (or any successor or substitute therefor) at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days before the first day of such Interest Period, as the rate for dollar deposits with a maturity comparable to such Interest Period, or
     (ii) if the rate calculated pursuant to clause (i) above is not available, the average (rounded upwards, if necessary, to the next 1/16 of 1%) of the rates per annum at which deposits in dollars are offered for the relevant Interest Period by three banks of recognized standing selected by the Liquidity Provider in the London interbank market at approximately 11:00 a.m. (London time) two Business Days before the first day of such
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
Interest Period in an amount approximately equal to the principal amount of the LIBOR Advance to which such Interest Period is to apply and for a period comparable to such Interest Period.
     "" means the occurrence of either (a) the Acceleration of all of the Equipment Notes or (b) a Southwest Bankruptcy Event.
Liquidity Event of Default
     "" means (i) the Liquidity Provider, (ii) the directors, officers, employees and agents of the Liquidity Provider, and (iii) the successors and permitted assigns of the persons described in clauses (i) and (ii) inclusive.
Liquidity Indemnitee
     "" has the meaning assigned to such term in the recital of parties to this Agreement.
Liquidity Provider
     "" means, subject to the proviso contained in the third sentence of Section 2.02(a), at any time of determination, (a) the Maximum Commitment at such time less (b) the aggregate amount of each Interest Advance outstanding at such time; provided that following a Provider Advance, a Special Termination Advance, or a Final Advance, the Maximum Available Commitment shall be zero.
Maximum Available Commitment
     "" means initially $38,016,225.00 as such amount may be reduced from time to time in accordance with Section 2.04(a).
Maximum Commitment
     "" means an Advance made pursuant to Section 2.02(b).
Non-Extension Advance
     "" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.02(e).
Notice of Borrowing
     "" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.08.
Notice of Replacement Subordination Agent
     "" means any time that less than 65% of the then aggregate outstanding principal amount of all Equipment Notes (other than any Additional Equipment Notes issued under any Indenture) are Performing Equipment Notes.
Performing Note Deficiency
     "" means the final Prospectus Supplement dated September 19, 2007 relating to the Certificates, as such Prospectus Supplement may be amended or supplemented.
Prospectus Supplement
     "" means a Downgrade Advance or a Non-Extension Advance.
Provider Advance
     "" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 3.01.
Regulatory Change
     "" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.06(b).
Replenishment Amount
     "" means, for any day, the sum of the aggregate amount of interest, calculated at the rate per annum equal to the Stated Interest Rate for the Class A Certificates, that would be payable on the Class A Certificates on each of the three successive semi-annual Regular Distribution Dates immediately following such day or, if such day is a Regular
Required Amount
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
Distribution Date, on such day and the succeeding two semi-annual Regular Distribution Dates, in each case calculated on the basis of the Pool Balance of the Class A Certificates on such day and without regard to expected future distributions of principal on the Class A Certificates.
     "" means an Advance made pursuant to Section 2.02(g).
Special Termination Advance
     "" means the Notice of Termination substantially in the form of Annex VIII to this Agreement.
Special Termination Notice
     "" means the earliest to occur of the following: (i) the Expiry Date; (ii) the date on which the Borrower delivers to the Liquidity Provider a certificate, signed by the Borrower, certifying that all of the Class A Certificates have been paid in full (or provision has been made for such payment in accordance with the Intercreditor Agreement and the Class A Trust Agreement) or are otherwise no longer entitled to the benefits of this Agreement; (iii) the date on which the Borrower delivers to the Liquidity Provider a certificate, signed by the Borrower, certifying that a Replacement Liquidity Facility has been substituted for this Agreement in full pursuant to Section 3.5(e) of the Intercreditor Agreement; (iv) the fifth Business Day following the receipt by the Borrower of a Termination Notice or Special Termination Notice from the Liquidity Provider pursuant to Section 6.01 hereof; and (v) the date on which no Advance is or may (including by reason of reinstatement as herein provided) become available for a Borrowing hereunder.
Termination Date
     "" means the Notice of Termination substantially in the form of Annex V to this Agreement.
Termination Notice
     "" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 7.08(b).
Transferee
     "" means any Downgrade Advance other than an Applied Downgrade Advance.
Unapplied Downgrade Advance
     "" means any Non-Extension Advance other than an Applied Non-Extension Advance.
Unapplied Non-Extension Advance
     "" means any Provider Advance other than an Applied Provider Advance.
Unapplied Provider Advance
     "" means any Special Termination Advance other than an Applied Special Termination Advance.
Unapplied Special Termination Advance
     "" has the meaning assigned to such term in Section 2.05.
Unpaid Advance
     (b) . Capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have the respective meanings assigned to such terms in the Intercreditor Agreement.
Terms Defined in the Intercreditor Agreement
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
     Section 2.01 . The Liquidity Provider hereby irrevocably agrees, on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, to make Advances to the Borrower from time to time on any Business Day during the period from the Effective Date until 1:00 p.m. (New York City time) on the Expiry Date (unless the obligations of the Liquidity Provider shall be earlier terminated in accordance with the terms of Section 2.04(b)) in an aggregate amount at any time outstanding not to exceed the Maximum Commitment.
The Advances
     Section 2.02 . (a) Interest Advances shall be made in one or more Borrowings by delivery to the Liquidity Provider of one or more written and completed Notices of Borrowing in substantially the form of Annex I attached hereto, signed by the Borrower, in an amount not exceeding the Maximum Available Commitment at such time and shall be used solely for the payment when due of interest on the Class A Certificates at the Stated Interest Rate therefor in accordance with Section 3.5(a) of the Intercreditor Agreement. Each Interest Advance made hereunder shall automatically reduce the Maximum Available Commitment and the amount available to be borrowed hereunder by subsequent Advances by the amount of such Interest Advance (subject to reinstatement as provided in the next sentence). Upon repayment to the Liquidity Provider in full or in part of the amount of any Interest Advance made pursuant to this Section 2.02(a), together with accrued interest thereon (as provided herein), the Maximum Available Commitment shall be reinstated by an amount equal to the amount of the Interest Advance so repaid but not to exceed the Maximum Commitment; provided, however, that the Maximum Available Commitment shall not be so reinstated (x) at any time if (i) a Liquidity Event of Default shall have occurred and be continuing and (ii) there is a Performing Note Deficiency or (y) at any time after the making of a Provider Advance, a Final Advance or a Special Termination Advance or after any Interest Advance shall have been converted into a Final Advance.
Making the Advances
     (b) A Non-Extension Advance shall be made in a single Borrowing if this Agreement is not extended in accordance with Section 3.5(d) of the Intercreditor Agreement (unless a Replacement Liquidity Facility to replace this Agreement shall have been delivered to the Borrower as contemplated by said Section 3.5(d) within the time period specified in such Section) by delivery to the Liquidity Provider of a written and completed Notice of Borrowing in substantially the form of Annex II attached hereto, signed by the Borrower, in an amount equal to the Maximum Available Commitment at such time, and shall be used to fund the Cash Collateral Account in accordance with said Section 3.5(d) and Section 3.5(f) of the Intercreditor Agreement.
     (c) A Downgrade Advance shall be made in a single Borrowing upon the occurrence of a Downgrade Event (as provided for in Section 3.5(c) of the Intercreditor Agreement) unless a Replacement Liquidity Facility to replace this Agreement shall have been previously delivered to the Borrower in accordance with Section 3.5(c), by delivery to the Liquidity Provider of a written and completed Notice of Borrowing in substantially the form of Annex III attached hereto, signed by the Borrower, in an amount equal to the Maximum Available Commitment at
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
such time, and shall be used solely to fund the Cash Collateral Account in accordance with said Section 3.5(c) and Section 3.5(f) of the Intercreditor Agreement.
     (d) A Final Advance shall be made in a single Borrowing upon the receipt by the Borrower of a Termination Notice from the Liquidity Provider pursuant to Section 6.01 hereof by delivery to the Liquidity Provider of a written and completed Notice of Borrowing in substantially the form of Annex IV attached hereto, signed by the Borrower, in an amount equal to the Maximum Available Commitment at such time, and shall be used solely to fund the Cash Collateral Account (in accordance with Sections 3.5(f) and 3.5(i) of the Intercreditor Agreement).
     (e) Each Borrowing shall be made on notice in writing (a "") in substantially the form required by Section 2.02(a), 2.02(b), 2.02(c), 2.02(d) or 2.02 (g), as the case may be, given by the Borrower to the Liquidity Provider. Each Notice of Borrowing shall be effective upon delivery of a copy thereof to the Liquidity Provider's office at the address specified in Section 7.02. If a Notice of Borrowing is delivered by the Borrower in respect of any Borrowing no later than 1:00 p.m. (New York City time) on a Business Day, upon satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 4.02 with respect to a requested Borrowing, the Liquidity Provider shall make available to the Borrower, in accordance with its payment instructions, the amount of such Borrowing in U.S. dollars and immediately available funds, before 5:00 p.m. (New York City time) on such Business Day or on such later Business Day specified in such Notice of Borrowing. If a Notice of Borrowing is delivered by the Borrower in respect of any Borrowing on a day that is not a Business Day or after 1:00 p.m. (New York City time) on a Business Day, upon satisfaction of the conditions precedent set forth in Section 4.02 with respect to a requested Borrowing, the Liquidity Provider shall make available to the Borrower, in accordance with its payment instructions, the amount of such Borrowing in U.S. dollars and in immediately available funds, before 12:00 Noon (New York City time) on the first Business Day next following the day of receipt of such Notice of Borrowing or on such later Business Day specified by the Borrower in such Notice of Borrowing. Payments of proceeds of a Borrowing shall be made by wire transfer of immediately available funds to the Borrower in accordance with such wire transfer instructions as the Borrower shall furnish from time to time to the Liquidity Provider for such purpose. Each Notice of Borrowing shall be irrevocable and binding on the Borrower.
Notice of Borrowing
     (f) Upon the making of any Advance requested pursuant to a Notice of Borrowing, in accordance with the Borrower's payment instructions, the Liquidity Provider shall be fully discharged of its obligation hereunder with respect to such Notice of Borrowing, and the Liquidity Provider shall not thereafter be obligated to make any further Advances hereunder in respect of such Notice of Borrowing to the Borrower or to any other Person. If the Liquidity Provider makes an Advance requested pursuant to a Notice of Borrowing before 12:00 Noon (New York City time) on the second Business Day after the date of payment specified in Section 2.02(e), the Liquidity Provider shall have fully discharged its obligations hereunder with respect to such Advance and an event of default shall not have occurred hereunder. Following the making of any Advance pursuant to Section 2.02(b), (c), (d) or (g) hereof to fund the Cash Collateral Account, the Liquidity Provider shall have no interest in or rights to the Cash Collateral Account, the funds constituting such Advance or any other amounts from time to time on deposit in the Cash Collateral Account; that the foregoing shall not affect or impair
provided
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
the obligations of the Subordination Agent to make the distributions contemplated by Section 3.5(e) or (f) of the Intercreditor Agreement, and , that the foregoing shall not affect or impair the rights of the Liquidity Provider to provide written instructions with respect to the investment and reinvestment of amounts in the Cash Collateral Accounts to the extent provided in Section 2.2(b) of the Intercreditor Agreement. By paying to the Borrower proceeds of Advances requested by the Borrower in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement, the Liquidity Provider makes no representation as to, and assumes no responsibility for, the correctness or sufficiency for any purpose of the amount of the Advances so made and requested.
provided further
     (g) A "Special Termination Advance" shall be made in a single Borrowing upon the receipt by the Borrower of a Special Termination Notice from the Liquidity Provider pursuant to Section 6.01(b), by delivery to the Liquidity Provider of a written and completed Notice of Borrowing in substantially the form of Annex VII, signed by the Borrower, in an amount equal to the Maximum Available Commitment at such time, and shall be used solely to fund the Cash Collateral Account (in accordance with Section 3.5(f) and Section 3.5(k) of the Intercreditor Agreement).
     Section 2.03 . The Borrower agrees to pay to the Liquidity Provider the fees set forth in the Fee Letter.
Fees
     Section 2.04 .
Automatic Reductions and Termination of the Maximum Commitment
     (a) . Promptly following each date on which the Required Amount is reduced as a result of a reduction in the Pool Balance of the Class A Certificates or otherwise, the Maximum Commitment shall automatically be reduced to an amount equal to such reduced Required Amount (as calculated by the Borrower). The Borrower shall give notice of any such automatic reduction of the Maximum Commitment to the Liquidity Provider within two Business Days thereof. The failure by the Borrower to furnish any such notice shall not affect such automatic reduction of the Maximum Commitment.
Automatic Reduction
     (b) . Upon the making of any Provider Advance, or the Special Termination Advance, or the making of or conversion to a Final Advance hereunder or the occurrence of the Termination Date, the obligation of the Liquidity Provider to make further Advances hereunder shall automatically and irrevocably terminate, and the Borrower shall not be entitled to request any further Borrowing hereunder.
Termination
     Section 2.05 . Subject to Sections 2.06, 2.07 and 2.09 hereof, the Borrower hereby agrees, without notice of an Advance or demand for repayment from the Liquidity Provider (which notice and demand are hereby waived by the Borrower), to pay, or to cause to be paid, to the Liquidity Provider on each date on which the Liquidity Provider shall make an Interest Advance, the Special Termination Advance or the Final Advance, an amount equal to (a) the amount of such Advance (any such Advance, until repaid, is referred to herein as an "") (if multiple Interest Advances are outstanding any such repayment to be applied in the order in which such Interest Advances have been made, starting with the earliest), plus (b) interest on the amount of each such Unpaid Advance as provided in Section 3.07 hereof; provided that if (i) the
Repayments of Interest Advances , the Special Termination Advance or the Final Advance
Unpaid Advance
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
Liquidity Provider shall make a Provider Advance at any time after making one or more Interest Advances which shall not have been repaid in accordance with this Section 2.05 or (ii) this Liquidity Facility shall become a Downgraded Facility or Non-Extended Facility at any time when unreimbursed Interest Advances have reduced the Maximum Available Commitment to zero, then such Interest Advances shall cease to constitute Unpaid Advances and shall be deemed to have been changed into an Applied Downgrade Advance or an Applied Non-Extension Advance, as the case may be, for all purposes of this Agreement (including, without limitation, for the purpose of determining when such Interest Advance is required to be repaid to the Liquidity Provider in accordance with Section 2.06 and for the purposes of Section 2.06(b)); , , that amounts in respect of a Special Termination Advance withdrawn from the Cash Collateral Account for the purpose of paying interest on the Class A Certificates in accordance with Section 3.5(f) of the Intercreditor Agreement (the amount of any such withdrawal being an "") shall thereafter (subject to Section 2.06(b)) be treated as an Interest Advance under this Agreement for purposes of determining the Applicable Liquidity Rate for interest payable thereon; and , , that if, following the making of a Special Termination Advance, the Liquidity Provider delivers a Termination Notice to the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01(a), such Special Termination Advance shall thereafter be converted to and treated as a Final Advance under this Agreement for purposes of determining the Applicable Liquidity Rate for interest payable thereon and the obligation for repayment thereof and as an Applied Special Termination Advance for purposes of Section 2.6(c) of the Intercreditor Agreement. The Borrower and the Liquidity Provider agree that the repayment in full of each Interest Advance, Special Termination Advance and Final Advance on the date such Advance is made is intended to be a contemporaneous exchange for new value given to the Borrower by the Liquidity Provider.
provided
further
Applied Special Termination Advance
provided
further
     Section 2.06 . (a) Amounts advanced hereunder in respect of a Provider Advance shall be deposited in the Cash Collateral Account, invested and withdrawn from the Cash Collateral Account as set forth in Sections 3.5(c), (d), (e) and (f) of the Intercreditor Agreement. Subject to Sections 2.07 and 2.09, the Borrower agrees to pay to the Liquidity Provider, on each Regular Distribution Date, commencing on the first Regular Distribution Date after the making of a Provider Advance, interest on the principal amount of any such Provider Advance as provided in Section 3.07; , that amounts in respect of a Provider Advance withdrawn from the Cash Collateral Account for the purpose of paying interest on the Class A Certificates in accordance with Section 3.5(f) of the Intercreditor Agreement (the amount of any such withdrawal being (y) in the case of a Downgrade Advance, an "" and (z) in the case of a Non-Extension Advance, an "" and, together with an Applied Downgrade Advance, an "") shall thereafter (subject to Section 2.06(b)) be treated as an Interest Advance under this Agreement for purposes of determining the Applicable Liquidity Rate for interest payable thereon and the dates on which such interest is payable; , , that if, following the making of a Provider Advance, the Liquidity Provider delivers a Termination Notice to the Borrower pursuant to Section 6.01 hereof, such Provider Advance shall thereafter be converted to and treated as a Final Advance under this Agreement for purposes of determining the Applicable Liquidity Rate for interest payable thereon and the obligation for repayment thereof and as an Applied Downgrade Advance or Applied Non-Extension Advance, as the case may be, for the purposes of Section 2.6(c) of the Intercreditor Agreement. Subject to Sections 2.07 and 2.09 hereof, immediately upon the withdrawal of any
Repayments of Provider Advances
provided, however
Applied Downgrade Advance
Applied Non-Extension Advance
Applied Provider Advance
provided
further
however
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
amounts from the Cash Collateral Account on account of a reduction in the Required Amount, the Borrower shall repay to the Liquidity Provider a portion of the Provider Advances in a principal amount equal to the amount of such reduction, plus interest on the principal amount prepaid as provided in Section 3.07 hereof.
     (b) At any time when an Applied Provider Advance (or any portion thereof) is outstanding, upon the deposit in the Cash Collateral Account of any amount pursuant to clause "" of Section 3.2 of the Intercreditor Agreement (any such amount being a "") for the purpose of replenishing or increasing the balance thereof up to the amount of the Required Amount at such time, (i) the aggregate outstanding principal amount of all Applied Provider Advances (and of Provider Advances treated as an Interest Advance for purposes of determining the Applicable Liquidity Rate for interest payable thereon) shall be automatically reduced by the amount of such Replenishment Amount (if multiple Applied Provider Advances are outstanding, such Replenishment Amount to be applied in the order in which such Applied Provider Advances have been made, starting with the earliest) and (ii) the aggregate outstanding principal amount of all Unapplied Provider Advances shall be automatically increased by the amount of such Replenishment Amount.
fourth
Replenishment Amount
     (c) Upon the provision of a Replacement Liquidity Facility in replacement of this Agreement in accordance with Section 3.5(e) of the Intercreditor Agreement, amounts remaining on deposit in the Cash Collateral Account after giving effect to any Applied Provider Advance or Applied Special Termination Advance on the date of such replacement shall be reimbursed to the replaced Liquidity Provider, but only to the extent such amounts are necessary to repay in full to the replaced Liquidity Provider all amounts owing to it hereunder.
     Section 2.07 . In order to provide for payment or repayment to the Liquidity Provider of any amounts hereunder, the Intercreditor Agreement provides that amounts available and referred to in Articles II and III of the Intercreditor Agreement, to the extent payable to the Liquidity Provider pursuant to the terms of the Intercreditor Agreement (including, without limitation, Section 3.5(f) of the Intercreditor Agreement), shall be paid to the Liquidity Provider in accordance with the terms thereof. Amounts so paid to, and not required to be returned by, the Liquidity Provider shall be applied by the Liquidity Provider to Liquidity Obligations then due and payable in accordance with the Intercreditor Agreement and shall discharge in full the corresponding obligations of the Borrower hereunder (or, if not provided for in the Intercreditor Agreement, then in such manner as the Liquidity Provider shall deem appropriate).
Payments to the Liquidity Provider Under the Intercreditor Agreement
     Section 2.08 . The Liquidity Provider shall maintain in accordance with its usual practice an account or accounts evidencing the indebtedness of the Borrower resulting from Advances made from time to time and the amounts of principal and interest payable hereunder and paid from time to time in respect thereof; provided, however, that the failure by the Liquidity Provider to maintain such account or accounts shall not affect the obligations of the Borrower in respect of Advances.
Book Entries
     Section 2.09 . All payments to be made by the Borrower under this Agreement, including, without limitation, Sections 7.05 and 7.07, shall be made only from the amounts that constitute Scheduled Payments, Special Payments or payments
Payments from Available Funds Only
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
under the Fee Letter and Section 8.1 of the Participation Agreements and only to the extent that the Borrower shall have sufficient income or proceeds therefrom to enable the Borrower to make payments in accordance with the terms hereof after giving effect to the priority of payments provisions set forth in the Intercreditor Agreement. The Liquidity Provider agrees that it will look solely to such amounts in respect of payments to be made by the Borrower hereunder to the extent available for distribution to it as provided in the Intercreditor Agreement and this Agreement and that the Borrower, in its individual capacity, is not personally liable to it for any amounts payable or liability under this Agreement except as expressly provided in this Agreement, the Intercreditor Agreement or any Participation Agreement. Amounts on deposit in the Cash Collateral Account shall be available to the Borrower to make payments under this Agreement only to the extent and for the purposes expressly contemplated in Section 3.5(f) of the Intercreditor Agreement.
     Section 2.10 . No earlier than the 60th day and no later than the 40th day prior to the then effective Expiry Date (unless such Expiry Date is on or after the date that is 15 days after the Final Legal Distribution Date for the Class A Certificates), the Borrower shall request that the Liquidity Provider extend the Expiry Date to the earlier of (i) the date that is 15 days after the Final Legal Distribution Date for the Class A Certificates and (ii) the date that is the day immediately preceding the 364th day occurring after the last day of the Consent Period (as hereinafter defined). Whether or not the Borrower has made such request, the Liquidity Provider shall advise the Borrower no earlier than the 40th day (or, if earlier, the date of the Liquidity Provider's receipt of such request, if any, from the Borrower) and no later than the 25th day prior to the then effective Expiry Date (such period, the ""), whether, in its sole discretion, it agrees to so extend the Expiry Date. If the Liquidity Provider advises the Borrower on or before the date on which the Consent Period ends that such Expiry Date shall not be so extended, or fails to irrevocably and unconditionally advise the Borrower on or before the date on which the Consent Period ends that such Expiry Date shall be so extended (and, in each case, if the Liquidity Provider shall not have been replaced in accordance with Section 3.5(e) of the Intercreditor Agreement), the Borrower shall be entitled on and after the date on which the Consent Period ends (but prior to the then effective Expiry Date) to request a Non-Extension Advance in accordance with Section 2.02(b) hereof and Section 3.5(d) of the Intercreditor Agreement.
Non-Extension Advance
Consent Period
     Section 3.01 . The Borrower shall pay to the Liquidity Provider from time to time such amounts as may be necessary to compensate the Liquidity Provider for any increased costs incurred by the Liquidity Provider which are attributable to its making or maintaining any Advances hereunder or its obligation to make any such Advances hereunder, or any reduction in any amount receivable by the Liquidity Provider under this Agreement or the Intercreditor Agreement in respect of any such Advances or such obligation (such increases in costs and reductions in amounts receivable being herein called ""), resulting from any change after the date of this Agreement in U.S. federal, state, municipal, or foreign laws or regulations (including Regulation D of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System), or the adoption or making after the date of this Agreement of any interpretations,
Increased Costs
Additional Costs
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
directives, or requirements applying to a class of banks including the Liquidity Provider under any U.S. federal, state, municipal, or any foreign laws or regulations (whether or not having the force of law) by any court, central bank or monetary authority charged with the interpretation or administration thereof (a ""), which: (1) changes the basis of taxation of any amounts payable to the Liquidity Provider under this Agreement in respect of any such Advances or such obligation (other than with respect to Excluded Taxes or Indemnified Taxes); or (2) imposes or modifies any reserve, special deposit, compulsory loan or similar requirements relating to any extensions of credit or other assets of, or any deposits with other liabilities of, the Liquidity Provider (including any such Advances or such obligation or any deposits referred to in the definition of LIBOR Rate or related definitions). The Liquidity Provider agrees to use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policies and applicable legal and regulatory restrictions) to change the jurisdiction of its Lending Office if making such change would avoid the need for, or reduce the amount of, any amount payable under this Section 3.01 that may thereafter accrue and would not, in the reasonable judgment of the Liquidity Provider, be otherwise disadvantageous to the Liquidity Provider.
Regulatory Change
     The Liquidity Provider will notify the Borrower of any event occurring after the date of this Agreement that will entitle the Liquidity Provider to compensation pursuant to this Section 3.01 as promptly as practicable after it obtains knowledge thereof and determines to request such compensation, which notice shall describe in reasonable detail the calculation of the amounts owed under this Section; provided, that if the Liquidity Provider fails to give such notice within 180 days after it obtains such knowledge, the Liquidity Provider shall, with respect to any Additional Costs resulting from such event, only be entitled to payment under this Section 3.01 for Additional Costs incurred from and after the date 180 days prior to the date the Liquidity Provider does give such notice. Determinations by the Liquidity Provider for purposes of this Section 3.01 of the effect of any Regulatory Change on its costs of making or maintaining Advances or on amounts receivable by it in respect of Advances, and of the additional amounts required to compensate the Liquidity Provider in respect of any Additional Costs, shall be prima facie evidence of the amount owed under this Section 3.01.
     Section 3.02 . If (1) the adoption, after the date hereof, of any applicable governmental law, rule or regulation regarding capital adequacy, (2) any change, after the date hereof, in the interpretation or administration of any such law, rule or regulation by any central bank or other governmental authority charged with the interpretation or administration thereof or (3) compliance by the Liquidity Provider or any corporation or bank controlling the Liquidity Provider with any applicable guideline or request of general applicability, issued after the date hereof, by any central bank or other governmental authority (whether or not having the force of law) that constitutes a change of the nature described in clause (2), has the effect of requiring an increase in the amount of capital required to be maintained by the Liquidity Provider or any corporation or bank controlling the Liquidity Provider and such increase is based upon the Liquidity Provider's obligations hereunder (including funded obligations) and other similar obligations, the Borrower shall, subject to the provisions of the next paragraph, pay to the Liquidity Provider from time to time such additional amount or amounts as are necessary to compensate the Liquidity Provider for such portion of such increase as shall be reasonably allocable to the Liquidity Provider's obligations to the Borrower hereunder. The Liquidity Provider agrees to use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policies and applicable legal and regulatory restrictions) to change the jurisdiction of its Lending Office if making such
Capital Adequacy
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
change would avoid the need for, or reduce the amount of, any amount payable under this Section 3.02 that may thereafter accrue and would not, in the reasonable judgment of the Liquidity Provider, be otherwise disadvantageous to the Liquidity Provider.
     The Liquidity Provider will notify the Borrower of any event occurring after the date of this Agreement that will entitle the Liquidity Provider to compensation pursuant to this Section 3.02 as promptly as practicable after it obtains knowledge thereof and determines to request such compensation, which notice shall describe in reasonable detail the calculation of the amounts owed under this Section; provided, that if the Liquidity Provider fails to give such notice within 180 days after it obtains such knowledge, the Liquidity Provider shall, with respect to any costs resulting from such event, only be entitled to payment under this Section 3.02 for costs incurred from and after the date 180 days prior to the date the Liquidity Provider does give such notice. Determinations by the Liquidity Provider for purposes of this Section 3.02 of the effect of any increase in the amount of capital required to be maintained by the Liquidity Provider and of the amount allocable to the Liquidity Provider's obligations to the Borrower hereunder shall be prima facie evidence of the amounts owed under this Section, absent manifest error.
     Section 3.03 . (a) Unless required by applicable law, all payments made by the Borrower under this Agreement shall be made free and clear of, and without reduction for or on account of, any present or future Taxes of any nature whatsoever now or hereafter imposed, levied, collected, withheld or assessed. If any Taxes are required to be withheld from any amount payable to the Liquidity Provider under this Agreement, (i) the Borrower shall within the time prescribed therefor by applicable law pay to the appropriate governmental or taxing authority the full amount of any such Taxes (and any additional Taxes in respect of the additional amounts payable under clause (ii) hereof) and make such reports or returns in connection therewith at the time or times and in the manner prescribed by applicable law, and (ii) if such Taxes are, other than Excluded Taxes (such non-Excluded Taxes being referred to herein, collectively, as "" and each, individually, as a ""), the amount so payable to the Liquidity Provider shall be increased to the extent necessary to yield to the Liquidity Provider (after reduction by all Taxes required to be withheld from the amount payable to the Liquidity Provider) the amount that would have been payable under this Agreement if no such withholding had been required. The Liquidity Provider agrees to use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policy and legal and regulatory restrictions) to change the jurisdiction of its Lending Office if making such change would avoid the need for, or reduce the amount of, any such additional amounts that may thereafter accrue and would not, in the reasonable judgment of the Liquidity Provider, be otherwise disadvantageous to the Liquidity Provider. From time to time upon the reasonable request of the Borrower, the Liquidity Provider agrees to provide to the Borrower such original Internal Revenue Service Forms (including W-8BEN, W-8ECI or W-9), as appropriate with respect to Liquidity Provider, or any successor or other form prescribed by the Internal Revenue Service, certifying as to any available exemption from or reduction in the rate of United States withholding tax on payments pursuant to this Agreement. Within 30 days after the date of each payment hereunder, the Borrower shall furnish to the Liquidity Provider the original or a certified copy of (or other documentary evidence of) the payment of the Indemnified Taxes applicable to such payment.
Payments Free of Deductions
Indemnified Taxes
Indemnified Tax
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
     (b) Unless required by applicable law, all payments (including, without limitation, Advances) made by the Liquidity Provider under this Agreement shall be made free and clear of, and without reduction for or on account of, any Taxes. If any Taxes are required to be withheld or deducted from any amounts payable to the Borrower under this Agreement, the Liquidity Provider shall (i) within the time prescribed therefor by applicable law pay to the appropriate governmental or taxing authority the full amount of any such Taxes (and any additional Taxes in respect of the additional amounts payable under clause (ii) hereof) and make such reports or returns in connection therewith at the time or times and in the manner prescribed by applicable law, and (ii) pay to the Borrower an additional amount which (after deduction of all such Taxes) will be sufficient to yield to the Borrower the full amount which would have been received by it had no such withholding or deduction been made. Within 30 days after the date of each payment hereunder, the Liquidity Provider shall furnish to the Borrower the original or a certified copy of (or other documentary evidence of) the payment of the Taxes applicable to such payment.
     (c) If any exemption from, or reduction in the rate of, any Taxes is reasonably available to the Borrower to establish that payments under this Agreement are exempt from (or entitled to a reduced rate of) tax, the Borrower shall deliver to the Liquidity Provider such form or forms and such other evidence of the eligibility of the Borrower for such exemption or reduction as the Liquidity Provider may reasonably identify to the Borrower as being required as a condition to exemption from, or reduction in the rate of, any Taxes.
     Section 3.04 . The Borrower shall make or cause to be made each payment to the Liquidity Provider under this Agreement so as to cause the same to be received by the Liquidity Provider not later than 1:00 P.M. (New York City time) on the day when due. The Borrower shall make all such payments in lawful money of the United States of America, to the Liquidity Provider in immediately available funds, by wire transfer to the account at BNP Paribas, New York, ABA No. 026-007-689, Account No. 10313000103, Account Name: Loan Servicing Clearing Account, Reference: Securitization  F185  Southwest 2007-1 EETC, or to such other account as the Liquidity Provider may from time to time direct the Borrower.
Payments
     Section 3.05 . All computations of interest based on the Base Rate shall be made on the basis of a year of 365 or 366 days, as the case may be, and all computations of interest based on the LIBOR Rate shall be made on the basis of a year of 360 days, in each case for the actual number of days (including the first day but excluding the last day) occurring in the period for which such interest is payable.
Computations
     Section 3.06 . Whenever any payment to be made hereunder to the Liquidity Provider shall be stated to be due on a day other than a Business Day, such payment shall be made on the next succeeding Business Day (and if so made, shall be deemed to have been made when due).
Payment on Non-Business Days
     Section 3.07 . (a) Subject to Section 2.09, the Borrower shall pay, or shall cause to be paid, without duplication, interest on (i) the unpaid principal amount of each Advance from and including the date of such Advance (or, in the case of an Applied Provider Advance or Applied Special Termination Advance, from and including the date on which the amount thereof was withdrawn from the Cash Collateral Account to pay interest on the Class A Certificates) to but excluding the date such principal amount shall be paid in full (or, in the case
Interest
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
of an Applied Provider Advance or Applied Special Termination Advance, the date on which the Cash Collateral Account is fully replenished in respect of such Advance) and (ii) any other amount due hereunder (whether fees, commissions, expenses or other amounts or, to the extent permitted by law, installments of interest on Advances or any such other amount) that is not paid when due (whether at stated maturity, by acceleration or otherwise) from and including the due date thereof to but excluding the date such amount is paid in full, in each such case, at a fluctuating interest rate per annum for each day equal to the Applicable Liquidity Rate (as defined below) for such Advance or such other amount, as the case may be, as in effect for such day, but in no event at a rate per annum greater than the maximum rate permitted by applicable law; , , that, if at any time the otherwise applicable interest rate as set forth in this Section 3.07 shall exceed the maximum rate permitted by applicable law, then any subsequent reduction in such interest rate will not reduce the rate of interest payable pursuant to this Section 3.07 below the maximum rate permitted by applicable law until the total amount of interest accrued equals the amount of interest that would have accrued if such otherwise applicable interest rate as set forth in this Section 3.07 had at all times been in effect.
provided
however
     (b) Except as provided in clause (e) below, each Advance will be either a Base Rate Advance or a LIBOR Advance as provided in this Section. Each such Advance will be a Base Rate Advance for the period from the date of its borrowing to (but excluding) the third Business Day following the Liquidity Provider's receipt of the Notice of Borrowing for such Advance. Thereafter, such Advance shall be a LIBOR Advance.
     (c) Each LIBOR Advance shall bear interest during each Interest Period at a rate per annum equal to the LIBOR Rate for such Interest Period plus the Applicable Margin for such LIBOR Advance, payable in arrears on the last day of such Interest Period and, in the event of the payment of principal of such LIBOR Advance on a day other than such last day, on the date of such payment (to the extent of interest accrued on the amount of principal repaid).
     (d) Each Base Rate Advance shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate plus the Applicable Margin for such Base Rate Advance, payable in arrears on each Regular Distribution Date and, in the event of the payment of principal of such Base Rate Advance on a day other than a Regular Distribution Date, on the date of such payment (to the extent of interest accrued on the amount of principal repaid).
     (e) Each outstanding Unapplied Non-Extension Advance, Unapplied Downgrade Advance and Unapplied Special Termination Advance shall bear interest in an amount equal to the Investment Earnings on amounts on deposit in the Cash Collateral Account plus the Applicable Margin for such Unapplied Non-Extension Advance, Unapplied Downgrade Advance or Unapplied Special Termination Advance, as applicable, on the amount of such Unapplied Non-Extension Advance, Unapplied Downgrade Advance or Unapplied Special Termination Advance from time to time, payable in arrears on each Regular Distribution Date.
     (f) Each amount not paid when due hereunder (whether fees, commissions, expenses or other amounts or, to the extent permitted by applicable law, installments of interest on Advances but excluding Advances) shall bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the Base Rate plus 2.00% per annum until paid.
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
     (g) Each change in the Base Rate shall become effective immediately. The rates of interest specified in this Section 3.07 with respect to any Advance or other amount shall be referred to as the "Applicable Liquidity Rate".
     Section 3.08 . From time to time and subject to the successor Borrower's meeting the eligibility requirements set forth in Section 6.9 of the Intercreditor Agreement applicable to the Subordination Agent, upon the effective date and time specified in a written and completed Notice of Replacement Subordination Agent in substantially the form of Annex VI attached hereto (a "") delivered to the Liquidity Provider by the then Borrower, the successor Borrower designated therein shall be substituted for the Borrower for all purposes hereunder.
Replacement of Borrower
Notice of Replacement Subordination Agent
     Section 3.09 . The Borrower shall pay to the Liquidity Provider, upon the request of the Liquidity Provider, such amount or amounts as shall be sufficient (in the reasonable opinion of the Liquidity Provider) to compensate it for any loss, cost, or expense incurred by reason of the liquidation or redeployment of deposits or other funds acquired by the Liquidity Provider to fund or maintain any LIBOR Advance (but excluding loss of anticipated profits) incurred as a result of:
Funding Loss Indemnification
     (1) Any repayment of a LIBOR Advance on a date other than the last day of the Interest Period for such Advance; or
     (2) Any failure by the Borrower to borrow a LIBOR Advance on the date for borrowing specified in the relevant notice under Section 2.02.
     Section 3.10 . Notwithstanding any other provision in this Agreement, if any change in any applicable law, rule or regulation, or any change in the interpretation or administration thereof by any governmental authority, central bank or comparable agency charged with the interpretation or administration thereof, or compliance by the Liquidity Provider (or its Lending Office) with any request or directive (whether or not having the force of law) of any such authority, central bank or comparable agency shall make it unlawful or impossible for the Liquidity Provider (or its Lending Office) to maintain or fund its LIBOR Advances, then upon notice to the Borrower by the Liquidity Provider, the outstanding principal amount of the LIBOR Advances shall be converted to Base Rate Advances (a) immediately upon demand of the Liquidity Provider, if such change or compliance with such request, in the judgment of the Liquidity Provider, requires immediate repayment; or (b) at the expiration of the last Interest Period to expire before the effective date of any such change or request. The Liquidity Provider agrees to use reasonable efforts (consistent with its internal policies and applicable legal and regulatory restrictions) to change the jurisdiction of its Lending Office if making such change would avoid or cure the aforesaid illegality and would not, in the reasonable judgment of the Liquidity Provider, be otherwise disadvantageous to the Liquidity Provider.
Illegality
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
     Section 4.01 . Section 2.01 of this Agreement shall become effective on and as of the first date (the "") on which the following conditions precedent have been satisfied or waived:
Conditions Precedent to Effectiveness of Section 2.01
Effective Date
     (a) The Liquidity Provider shall have received each of the following, and in the case of each document delivered pursuant to paragraphs (i), (ii) and (iii), each in form and substance satisfactory to the Liquidity Provider:
          (i) This Agreement duly executed on behalf of the Borrower and the Fee Letter duly executed on behalf of the Borrower;
          (ii) The Intercreditor Agreement duly executed on behalf of each of the parties thereto (other than the Liquidity Provider);
          (iii) Fully executed copies of each of the Operative Agreements executed and delivered on or before the Closing Date (other than this Agreement, the Fee Letter and the Intercreditor Agreement);
          (iv) A copy of the Prospectus Supplement and specimen copies of the Class A Certificates;
          (v) An executed copy of each document, instrument, certificate and opinion delivered on or before the Closing Date pursuant to the Class A Trust Agreement, the Intercreditor Agreement and the other Operative Agreements (in the case of each such opinion, other than the opinion of counsel for the Underwriters, either addressed to the Liquidity Provider or accompanied by a letter from the counsel rendering such opinion to the effect that the Liquidity Provider is entitled to rely on such opinion as of its date as if it were addressed to the Liquidity Provider);
          (vi) Evidence that there shall have been made and shall be in full force and effect, all filings, recordings and/or registrations, and there shall have been given or taken any notice or other similar action as may be reasonably necessary or, to the extent reasonably requested by the Liquidity Provider, reasonably advisable, in order to establish, perfect, protect and preserve the right, title and interest, remedies, powers, privileges, liens and security interests of, or for the benefit of, the Trustees, the Borrower and the Liquidity Provider created by the Operative Agreements executed and delivered on or before the Closing Date;
          (vii) An agreement from Southwest, pursuant to which Southwest agrees to provide copies of quarterly financial statements and audited annual financial statements to the Liquidity Provider provided that so long as Southwest is subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, such information will be considered provided if it is made available on the EDGAR database of the Securities and Exchange Commission;
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
          (viii) Legal opinions from (a) Morris James LLP, special counsel to the Borrower and (b) Vinson & Elkins L.L.P., special counsel to Southwest, each in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Liquidity Provider; and
          (ix) Such other documents, instruments, opinions and approvals pertaining to the transactions contemplated hereby or by the other Operative Agreements as the Liquidity Provider shall have reasonably requested, including, without limitation, such documentation as the Liquidity Provider may require to satisfy its "know your customer" policies.
     (b) The following statement shall be true on and as of the Effective Date: no event has occurred and is continuing, or would result from the entering into of this Agreement or the making of any Advance, which constitutes a Liquidity Event of Default.
     (c) The Liquidity Provider shall have received payment in full of all fees and other sums required to be paid to or for the account of the Liquidity Provider on or prior to the Effective Date.
     (d) All conditions precedent to the issuance of the Certificates under the Trust Agreements shall have been satisfied or waived and all conditions precedent to the purchase of the Class A Certificates and the Class B Certificates by the Underwriters under the Underwriting Agreement shall have been satisfied or waived.
     (e) The Borrower shall have received a certificate, dated the date hereof, signed by a duly authorized representative of the Liquidity Provider, certifying that all conditions precedent to the effectiveness of Section 2.01 have been satisfied or waived.
     Section 4.02 . The obligation of the Liquidity Provider to make an Advance on the occasion of each Borrowing shall be subject to the conditions precedent that the Effective Date shall have occurred and, on or prior to the date of such Borrowing, the Borrower shall have delivered a Notice of Borrowing which conforms to the terms and conditions of this Agreement and has been completed as may be required by the relevant form of the Notice of Borrowing for the type of Advance requested. The Liquidity Provider will be permitted to rely on the Subordination Agent incumbency certificate substantially in the form of Annex IX relating to officers of the Subordination Agent that are authorized to deliver a Notice of Borrowing to the Liquidity Provider.
Conditions Precedent to Borrowing
     Section 5.01 . So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or the Liquidity Provider shall have any Maximum Commitment hereunder or the Borrower shall have any obligation to pay any amount to the Liquidity Provider hereunder, the Borrower will, unless the Liquidity Provider shall otherwise consent in writing:
Affirmative Covenants of the Borrower
     (a) . Punctually pay or cause to be paid all amounts payable by it under this Agreement and the other Operative Agreements and observe
Performance of this and Other Agreements
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
and perform in all material respects the conditions, covenants and requirements applicable to it contained in this Agreement and the other Operative Agreements.
     (b) . Furnish to the Liquidity Provider with reasonable promptness, such information and data with respect to the transactions contemplated by the Operative Agreements as from time to time may be reasonably requested by the Liquidity Provider; and permit the Liquidity Provider, upon reasonable notice, to inspect the Borrower's books and records with respect to such transactions and to meet with officers and employees of the Borrower to discuss such transactions.
Reporting Requirements
     (c) . Furnish to the Liquidity Provider with reasonable promptness, such Operative Agreements entered into after the date hereof as from time to time may be reasonably requested by the Liquidity Provider.
Certain Operative Agreements
     Section 5.02 . So long as any Advance shall remain unpaid or the Liquidity Provider shall have any Maximum Commitment hereunder or the Borrower shall have any obligation to pay any amount to the Liquidity Provider hereunder, the Borrower will not appoint or permit or suffer to be appointed any successor Borrower without the prior written consent of the Liquidity Provider, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.
Negative Covenants of the Borrower
     Section 6.01 . (a) If (i) any Liquidity Event of Default has occurred and is continuing and (ii) there is a Performing Note Deficiency, the Liquidity Provider may, in its discretion, deliver to the Borrower a Termination Notice, the effect of which shall be to cause (A) the obligation of the Liquidity Provider to make Advances hereunder to expire on the fifth Business Day after the date on which such Termination Notice is received by the Borrower, (B) the Borrower to promptly request, and the Liquidity Provider to promptly make, a Final Advance in accordance with Section 2.02(d) hereof and Section 3.5(i) of the Intercreditor Agreement, (C) all other outstanding Advances to be automatically converted into Final Advances for purposes of determining the Applicable Liquidity Rate for interest payable thereon, and (D) subject to Sections 2.07 and 2.09 hereof, all Advances (including, without limitation, any Provider Advance and Applied Provider Advance), any accrued interest thereon and any other amounts outstanding hereunder to become immediately due and payable to the Liquidity Provider.
Liquidity Events of Default and Special Termination
     (b) If the Pool Balance of the Class A Certificates is greater than the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Series A Equipment Notes (other than any Series A Equipment Notes previously sold or with respect to which the collateral securing such Series A Equipment Notes has been disposed of) at any time during the 18-month period prior to August 1, 2022, the Liquidity Provider may, in its discretion, deliver to the Borrower a Special Termination Notice, the effect of which shall be to cause (i) the obligation of the Liquidity Provider to make Advances hereunder to expire on the fifth Business Day after the date on which such Special Termination Notice is received by the Borrower, (ii) the Borrower to promptly
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
request, and the Liquidity Provider to promptly make, a Special Termination Advance in accordance with Section 2.02(g) and Section 3.5(k) of the Intercreditor Agreement, and (iii) subject to Sections 2.07 and 2.09, all Advances (including, without limitation, any Provider Advance and Applied Provider Advance), any accrued interest thereon and any other amounts outstanding hereunder to become immediately due and payable to the Liquidity Provider.
     Section 7.01 No amendment or waiver of any provision of this Agreement, nor consent to any departure by the Borrower therefrom, shall in any event be effective unless the same shall be in writing and signed by the Liquidity Provider, and, in the case of an amendment or of a waiver by the Borrower, the Borrower, and then such waiver or consent shall be effective only in the specific instance and for the specific purpose for which given.
Amendments, Etc.
     Section 7.02 Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, all notices and other communications provided for hereunder shall be in writing (including telecopier and mailed or delivered or sent by telecopier) addressed to the applicable party at its address set forth below:
Notices, Etc.
Borrower:
Wilmington Trust Company Rodney Square North 1100 North Market Street Wilmington, DE 19890-0001 Attention: Corporate Trust Administration Telephone: (800) 733-8485 Fax: (302) 636-4141
with a copy to:
Southwest Airlines Co. 2702 Love Field Drive P.O. Box 36611 Dallas, TX 75235-1611 Attention: Treasurer Telephone: (214) 792-2392 Facsimile: (214) 792-4022
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
Liquidity Provider:
BNP Paribas 787 Seventh Avenue New York, NY 10019 Attention: Fixed Income  ASG, NY, Thomas Kunz cc: Helene Mizrahi-Walden, London cc: Aviation Finance Group, NY  Robert Papas Telephone: (917) 472-4841 Fax: (212) 841-2689
or to such other address as shall be designated by such Person in a written notice to the others. All such notices and communications shall be effective (i) if given by telecopier, when transmitted to the telecopier number specified above with receipt confirmed electronically, and received in legible form, (ii) if given by mail, five Business Days after being deposited in the mails addressed as specified above, and (iii) if given by other means, when delivered at the address specified above, except that written notices to the Liquidity Provider pursuant to the provisions of Article II and Article III hereof shall not be effective until received by the Liquidity Provider.
     Section 7.03 . No failure on the part of the Liquidity Provider to exercise, and no delay in exercising, any right under this Agreement shall operate as a waiver thereof; nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right under this Agreement preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right. The remedies herein provided are cumulative and not exclusive of any remedies provided by law.
No Waiver; Remedies
     Section 7.04 . The Borrower agrees to do such further acts and things and to execute and deliver to the Liquidity Provider such additional assignments, agreements, powers and instruments as the Liquidity Provider may reasonably require or deem advisable to carry into effect the purposes of this Agreement and the other Operative Agreements or to better assure and confirm unto the Liquidity Provider its rights, powers and remedies hereunder and under the other Operative Agreements.
Further Assurances
     Section 7.05 . The Liquidity Provider shall be indemnified hereunder to the extent and in the manner described in Section 8.1 of the Participation Agreements. In addition, the Borrower agrees to indemnify, protect, defend and hold harmless the Liquidity Provider from, against and in respect of, and shall pay on demand, all Expenses of any kind or nature whatsoever (other than any Expenses of the nature described in Section 3.01, 3.02 or 7.07 hereof or in the Fee Letter (regardless of whether indemnified against pursuant to said Sections or in the Fee Letter)), that may be imposed on, incurred by or asserted against any Liquidity Indemnitee, in any way relating to, resulting from, or arising out of or in connection with any action, suit or proceeding by any third party against such Liquidity Indemnitee and relating to this Agreement, the Fee Letter, the Intercreditor Agreement or any Participation Agreement; , , that the Borrower shall not be required to indemnify, protect, defend and hold harmless any Liquidity Indemnitee in respect of any Expense of such Liquidity Indemnitee to the extent such Expense is (i) attributable to the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such Liquidity Indemnitee or any other Liquidity
Indemnification; Survival of Certain Provisions
provided
however
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
Indemnitee, (ii) ordinary and usual operating overhead expense, (iii) attributable to the failure by such Liquidity Indemnitee or any other Liquidity Indemnitee to perform or observe any agreement, covenant or condition on its part to be performed or observed in this Agreement, the Intercreditor Agreement, the Fee Letter or any other Operative Agreement to which it is a party; or (iv) a Tax. The indemnities contained in Section 8.1 of the Participation Agreements, and the provisions of Sections 3.01, 3.02, 3.03, 3.09, 7.05 and 7.07 hereof, shall survive the termination of this Agreement.
     Section 7.06 . (a) Neither the Liquidity Provider nor any of its officers, employees, directors or Affiliates shall be liable or responsible for: (i) the use which may be made of the Advances or any acts or omissions of the Borrower or any beneficiary or transferee in connection therewith; (ii) the validity, sufficiency or genuineness of documents, or of any endorsement thereon, even if such documents should prove to be in any or all respects invalid, insufficient, fraudulent or forged; or (iii) the making of Advances by the Liquidity Provider against delivery of a Notice of Borrowing and other documents which do not comply with the terms hereof; , , that the Borrower shall have a claim against the Liquidity Provider, and the Liquidity Provider shall be liable to the Borrower, to the extent of any damages suffered by the Borrower which were the result of (A) the Liquidity Provider's willful misconduct or gross negligence in determining whether documents presented hereunder comply with the terms hereof, or (B) any breach by the Liquidity Provider of any of the terms of this Agreement or the Intercreditor Agreement, including, but not limited to, the Liquidity Provider's failure to make lawful payment hereunder after the delivery to it by the Borrower of a Notice of Borrowing strictly complying with the terms and conditions hereof. In no event, however, shall the Liquidity Provider be liable on any theory of liability for any special, indirect, consequential or punitive damages (including, without limitation, any loss of profits, business or anticipated savings).
Liability of the Liquidity Provider
provided
however
     (b) Neither the Liquidity Provider nor any of its officers, employees, directors or Affiliates shall be liable or responsible in any respect for (i) any error, omission, interruption or delay in transmission, dispatch or delivery of any message or advice, however transmitted, in connection with this Agreement or any Notice of Borrowing delivered hereunder, or (ii) any action, inaction or omission which may be taken by it in good faith, absent willful misconduct or gross negligence (in which event the extent of the Liquidity Provider's potential liability to the Borrower shall be limited as set forth in the immediately preceding paragraph), in connection with this Agreement or any Notice of Borrowing.
     Section 7.07 . The Borrower agrees to pay, or cause to be paid (A) on the Effective Date and on such later date or dates on which the Liquidity Provider shall make demand, all reasonable out-of-pocket costs and expenses (including, without limitation, the reasonable fees and expenses of outside counsel for the Liquidity Provider) of the Liquidity Provider in connection with the preparation, negotiation, execution, delivery, filing and recording of this Agreement, any other Operative Agreement and any other documents which may be delivered in connection with this Agreement and (B) on demand, all reasonable costs and expenses (including reasonable counsel fees and expenses) of the Liquidity Provider in connection with (i) the enforcement of this Agreement or any other Operative Agreement, (ii) the modification or amendment of, or supplement to, this Agreement or any other Operative Agreement or such other documents which may be delivered in connection herewith or therewith
Costs, Expenses and Taxes
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
(whether or not the same shall become effective) or any waiver or consent thereunder (whether or not the same shall become effective) or (iii) any action or proceeding relating to any order, injunction, or other process or decree restraining or seeking to restrain the Liquidity Provider from paying any amount under this Agreement, the Intercreditor Agreement or any other Operative Agreement or otherwise affecting the application of funds in the Cash Collateral Account. In addition, the Borrower shall pay any and all recording, stamp and other similar taxes and fees payable or determined to be payable by the Liquidity Provider in connection with its execution, delivery, filing and recording of this Agreement, any other Operative Agreement and such other documents, and agrees to hold the Liquidity Provider harmless from and against any and all liabilities with respect to or resulting from any delay in paying or omission to pay such taxes or fees.
     Section 7.08 . (a) This Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Borrower and the Liquidity Provider and their respective successors and assigns, except that neither the Liquidity Provider (except as otherwise provided in this Section 7.08 and in Section 3.5(m) of the Intercreditor Agreement) nor (except as contemplated by Section 3.08) the Borrower shall have the right to assign its rights or obligations hereunder or any interest herein without the prior written consent of the other party, subject to the requirements of Section 7.08(b). The Liquidity Provider may grant participations herein or in any of its rights hereunder (including, without limitation, funded participations and participations in rights to receive interest payments hereunder) and under the other Operative Agreements to such Persons (other than Southwest and its Affiliates) as the Liquidity Provider may in its sole discretion select, subject to the requirements of Section 7.08(b). No such granting of participations by the Liquidity Provider, however, will relieve the Liquidity Provider of its obligations hereunder. In connection with any participation or any proposed participation, the Liquidity Provider may disclose to the participant or the proposed participant any information that the Borrower is required to deliver or to disclose to the Liquidity Provider pursuant to this Agreement. The Borrower acknowledges and agrees that the Liquidity Provider's source of funds may derive in part from its participants. Accordingly, references in this Agreement and the other Operative Agreements to determinations, reserve and capital adequacy requirements, increased costs, reduced receipts, additional amounts due pursuant to Section 3.03 and the like as they pertain to the Liquidity Provider shall be deemed also to include those of each of its participants that are banks (subject, in each case, to the maximum amount that would have been incurred by or attributable to the Liquidity Provider directly if the Liquidity Provider, rather than the participant, had held the interest participated).
Binding Effect; Participations
     (b) If, pursuant to subsection (a) above, the Liquidity Provider sells any participation in this Agreement to any bank or other entity (each, a ""), the Transferee shall not be entitled to receive any greater payment under Section 3.03 than the Liquidity Provider would have been entitled to receive with respect to the participation sold to such Transferee. A Transferee shall not be entitled to the benefits of Section 3.03 unless the Borrower is notified of the participation sold to such Transferee and such Transferee agrees, for the benefit of the Borrower, to comply with the certification requirements of Section 3.03 as though it were the Liquidity Provider. Unless the Borrower has received forms or other documents reasonably satisfactory to it (and required by applicable law) indicating that payments hereunder are not subject to United States federal withholding tax, the Borrower will withhold taxes as required by law from such payments at the applicable statutory rate.
Transferee
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
     (c) Notwithstanding the other provisions of this Section 7.08, the Liquidity Provider may assign and pledge all or any portion of the Advances owing to it to any Federal Reserve Bank or the United States Treasury as collateral security pursuant to Regulation A of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and any Operating Circular issued by such Federal Reserve Bank, provided that any payment in respect of such assigned Advances made by the Borrower to the Liquidity Provider in accordance with the terms of this Agreement shall satisfy the Borrower's obligations hereunder in respect of such assigned Advance to the extent of such payment. No such assignment shall release the Liquidity Provider from its obligations hereunder.
     Section 7.09 . Any provision of this Agreement which is prohibited, unenforceable or not authorized in any jurisdiction shall, as to such jurisdiction, be ineffective to the extent of such prohibition, unenforceability or non-authorization without invalidating the remaining provisions hereof or affecting the validity, enforceability or legality of such provision in any other jurisdiction.
Severability
     Section 7.10 . THIS AGREEMENT SHALL BE GOVERNED BY, AND CONSTRUED IN ACCORDANCE WITH, THE LAWS OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK (WITHOUT REGARD TO PRINCIPLES OF CONFLICTS OF LAW THEREOF (OTHER THAN SECTIONS 5-1401 AND 5-1402 OF THE NEW YORK GENERAL OBLIGATIONS LAW)).
GOVERNING LAW
     Section 7.11 (a) Each of the parties hereto hereby irrevocably and unconditionally:
Submission to Jurisdiction; Waiver of Jury Trial; Waiver of Immunity.
          (i) submits for itself and its property in any legal action or proceeding relating to this Agreement or any other Operative Agreement, or for recognition and enforcement of any judgment in respect hereof or thereof, to the nonexclusive general jurisdiction of the courts of the State of New York, the courts of the United States of America for the Southern District of New York, and the appellate courts from any thereof;
          (ii) consents that any such action or proceeding may be brought in such courts, and waives any objection that it may now or hereafter have to the venue of any such action or proceeding in any such court or that such action or proceeding was brought in an inconvenient court and agrees not to plead or claim the same;
          (iii) agrees that service of process in any such action or proceeding may be effected by mailing a copy thereof by registered or certified mail (or any substantially similar form of mail), postage prepaid, to each party hereto at its address set forth in Section 7.02 hereof, or at such other address of which the Liquidity Provider shall have been notified pursuant thereto; and
          (iv) agrees that nothing herein shall affect the right to effect service of process in any other manner permitted by law or shall limit the right to sue in any other jurisdiction.
     (b) THE BORROWER AND THE LIQUIDITY PROVIDER EACH HEREBY AGREE TO WAIVE THEIR RESPECTIVE RIGHTS TO A JURY TRIAL OF ANY CLAIM OR CAUSE OF ACTION BASED UPON OR ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT OR
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
ANY DEALINGS BETWEEN THEM RELATING TO THE SUBJECT MATTER OF THIS AGREEMENT AND THE RELATIONSHIP THAT IS BEING ESTABLISHED, including, without limitation, contract claims, tort claims, breach of duty claims and all other common law and statutory claims. The Borrower and the Liquidity Provider each warrant and represent that it has reviewed this waiver with its legal counsel, and that it knowingly and voluntarily waives its jury trial rights following consultation with such legal counsel. THIS WAIVER IS IRREVOCABLE, AND CANNOT BE MODIFIED EITHER ORALLY OR IN WRITING, AND THIS WAIVER SHALL APPLY TO ANY SUBSEQUENT AMENDMENTS, RENEWALS, SUPPLEMENTS OR MODIFICATIONS TO THIS AGREEMENT.
     Section 7.12 . This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts and by different parties hereto on separate counterparts, each of which counterparts, when so executed and delivered, shall be deemed to be an original and all of which counterparts, taken together, shall constitute but one and the same Agreement.
Execution in Counterparts
     Section 7.13 . This Agreement, the Intercreditor Agreement and the other Operative Agreements to which the Liquidity Provider is a party constitute the entire agreement of the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior understandings and agreements of such parties.
Entirety
     Section 7.14 . Section headings in this Agreement are included herein for convenience of reference only and shall not constitute a part of this Agreement for any other purpose.
Headings
     Section 7.15 . EXCEPT AS EXPRESSLY SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT, THE OBLIGATIONS OF THE LIQUIDITY PROVIDER TO MAKE ADVANCES HEREUNDER, AND THE BORROWER'S RIGHTS TO DELIVER NOTICES OF BORROWING REQUESTING THE MAKING OF ADVANCES HEREUNDER, SHALL BE UNCONDITIONAL AND IRREVOCABLE, AND SHALL BE PAID OR PERFORMED, IN EACH CASE STRICTLY IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT.
LIQUIDITY PROVIDER'S OBLIGATION TO MAKE ADVANCES
     Section 7.16 . The Liquidity Provider hereby notifies the Borrower that pursuant to the requirements of the USA PATRIOT Act (Title III of Pub. L. 107-56 (signed into law October 26, 2001)) (the ""), the Liquidity Provider is required to obtain, verify and record, and the Borrower shall provide to the Liquidity Provider upon request, information that identifies the Borrower, which information includes the name and address of the Borrower and other information that will allow the Liquidity Provider to identify the Borrower in accordance with the Act.
Patriot Act
Act
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
     , the parties have caused this Agreement to be duly executed and delivered by their respective officers thereunto duly authorized as of the date first set forth above.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
     The undersigned, a duly authorized signatory of the undersigned borrower (the ""), hereby certifies to BNP Paribas (the ""), with reference to the Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of October 3, 2007, between the Borrower and the Liquidity Provider (the ""; the terms defined therein and not otherwise defined herein being used herein as therein defined or referenced), that:
Borrower
Liquidity Provider
Liquidity Agreement
     (1) The Borrower is the Subordination Agent under the Intercreditor Agreement.
     (2) The Borrower is delivering this Notice of Borrowing for the making of an Interest Advance by the Liquidity Provider to be used, subject to clause (3)(v) below, for the payment of interest on the Class A Certificates which was payable on _______, _____ (the "") in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Class A Trust Agreement and the Class A Certificates, which Advance is requested to be made on _______, _____. The Interest Advance should be transferred to [name of bank/wire instructions/ABA number] in favor of account number [             ], reference [             ].
Distribution Date
     (3) The amount of the Interest Advance requested hereby (i) is $[____________], to be applied in respect of the payment of the interest which was due and payable on the Class A Certificates on the Distribution Date, (ii) does not include any amount with respect to the payment of principal of, or premium on, the Class A Certificates, or principal of, or interest or premium on, the Class B Certificates, (iii) was computed in accordance with the provisions of the Class A Certificates, the Liquidity Agreement, the Class A Trust Agreement and the Intercreditor Agreement (a copy of which computation is attached hereto as Schedule I), (iv) does not exceed the Maximum Available Commitment on the date hereof, and (v) has not been and is not the subject of a prior or contemporaneous Notice of Borrowing.
     (4) Upon receipt by or on behalf of the Borrower of the amount requested hereby, (a) the Borrower will apply the same in accordance with the terms of Section 3.5(b) of the Intercreditor Agreement, (b) no portion of such amount shall be applied by the Borrower for any other purpose and (c) no portion of such amount until so applied shall be commingled with other funds held by the Borrower.
     The Borrower hereby acknowledges that, pursuant to the Liquidity Agreement, the making of the Interest Advance as requested by this Notice of Borrowing shall automatically reduce, subject to reinstatement in accordance with the terms of the Liquidity Agreement, the Maximum Available Commitment by an amount equal to the amount of the Interest Advance requested to be made hereby as set forth in clause (i) of paragraph (3) of this Notice of
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
Borrowing and such reduction shall automatically result in corresponding reductions in the amounts available to be borrowed pursuant to a subsequent Advance.
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
     , the Borrower has executed and delivered this Notice of Borrowing as of the ______ day of ______, _____.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
     The undersigned, a duly authorized signatory of the undersigned borrower (the ""), hereby certifies to BNP Paribas (the ""), with reference to the Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of October 3, 2007, between the Borrower and the Liquidity Provider (the ""; the terms defined therein and not otherwise defined herein being used herein as therein defined or referenced), that:
Borrower
Liquidity Provider
Liquidity Agreement
     (1) The Borrower is the Subordination Agent under the Intercreditor Agreement.
     (2) The Borrower is delivering this Notice of Borrowing for the making of the Non-Extension Advance by the Liquidity Provider to be used for the funding of the Cash Collateral Account in accordance with Section 3.5(d) of the Intercreditor Agreement, which Advance is requested to be made on ________, _______. The Non-Extension Advance should be transferred to [name of bank/wire instructions/ABA number] in favor of account number [           ], reference [               ].
     (3) The amount of the Non-Extension Advance requested hereby (i) is $___________.___, which equals the Maximum Available Commitment on the date hereof and is to be applied in respect of the funding of the Cash Collateral Account in accordance with Section 3.5(d) of the Intercreditor Agreement, (ii) does not include any amount with respect to the payment of the principal of, or premium on, the Class A Certificates, or principal of, or interest or premium on, the Class B Certificates, (iii) was computed in accordance with the provisions of the Class A Certificates, the Liquidity Agreement, the Class A Trust Agreement and the Intercreditor Agreement (a copy of which computation is attached hereto as Schedule I), and (iv) has not been and is not the subject of a prior or contemporaneous Notice of Borrowing under the Liquidity Agreement.
     (4) Upon receipt by or on behalf of the Borrower of the amount requested hereby, (a) the Borrower will deposit such amount in the Cash Collateral Account and apply the same in accordance with the terms of Section 3.5(d) of the Intercreditor Agreement, (b) no portion of such amount shall be applied by the Borrower for any other purpose and (c) no portion of such amount until so applied shall be commingled with other funds held by the Borrower.
     The Borrower hereby acknowledges that, pursuant to the Liquidity Agreement, (A) the making of the Non-Extension Advance as requested by this Notice of Borrowing shall automatically and irrevocably terminate the obligation of the Liquidity Provider to make further Advances under the Liquidity Agreement; and (B) following the making by the Liquidity Provider of the Non-Extension Advance requested by this Notice of Borrowing, the Borrower shall not be entitled to request any further Advances under the Liquidity Agreement.
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
     , the Borrower has executed and delivered this Notice of Borrowing as of the _______ day of _______, ___.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
     The undersigned, a duly authorized signatory of the undersigned borrower (the ""), hereby certifies to BNP Paribas (the ""), with reference to the Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of October 3, 2007, between the Borrower and the Liquidity Provider (the ""; the terms defined therein and not otherwise defined herein being used herein as therein defined or referenced), that:
Borrower
Liquidity Provider
Liquidity Agreement
     (1) The Borrower is the Subordination Agent under the Intercreditor Agreement.
     (2) The Borrower is delivering this Notice of Borrowing for the making of the Downgrade Advance by the Liquidity Provider to be used for the funding of the Cash Collateral Account in accordance with Section 3.5(c) of the Intercreditor Agreement by reason of the occurrence of a Downgrade Event, which Advance is requested to be made on _______, ______. The Downgrade Advance should be transferred to [name of bank/wire instructions/ABA number] in favor of account number [        ], reference [          ].
     (3) The amount of the Downgrade Advance requested hereby (i) is $__________.___, which equals the Maximum Available Commitment on the date hereof and is to be applied in respect of the funding of the Cash Collateral Account in accordance with Section 3.5(c) of the Intercreditor Agreement, (ii) does not include any amount with respect to the payment of the principal of, or premium on, the Class A Certificates, or principal of, or interest or premium on, the Class B Certificates, (iii) was computed in accordance with the provisions of the Class A Certificates, the Liquidity Agreement, the Class A Trust Agreement and the Intercreditor Agreement (a copy of which computation is attached hereto as Schedule I), and (iv) has not been and is not the subject of a prior or contemporaneous Notice of Borrowing under the Liquidity Agreement.
     (4) Upon receipt by or on behalf of the Borrower of the amount requested hereby, (a) the Borrower will deposit such amount in the Cash Collateral Account and apply the same in accordance with the terms of Section 3.5(c) of the Intercreditor Agreement, (b) no portion of such amount shall be applied by the Borrower for any other purpose and (c) no portion of such amount until so applied shall be commingled with other funds held by the Borrower.
     The Borrower hereby acknowledges that, pursuant to the Liquidity Agreement, (A) the making of the Downgrade Advance as requested by this Notice of Borrowing shall automatically and irrevocably terminate the obligation of the Liquidity Provider to make further Advances under the Liquidity Agreement; and (B) following the making by the Liquidity Provider of the Downgrade Advance requested by this Notice of Borrowing, the Borrower shall not be entitled to request any further Advances under the Liquidity Agreement.
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
     , the Borrower has executed and delivered this Notice of Borrowing as of the _______ day of _______, ___.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
     The undersigned, a duly authorized signatory of the undersigned borrower (the ""), hereby certifies to BNP Paribas (the ""), with reference to the Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of October 3, 2007, between the Borrower and the Liquidity Provider (the ""; the terms defined therein and not otherwise defined herein being used herein as therein defined or referenced), that:
Borrower
Liquidity Provider
Liquidity Agreement
     (1) The Borrower is the Subordination Agent under the Intercreditor Agreement.
     (2) The Borrower is delivering this Notice of Borrowing for the making of the Final Advance by the Liquidity Provider to be used for the funding of the Cash Collateral Account in accordance with Section 3.5(i) of the Intercreditor Agreement by reason of the receipt by the Borrower of a Termination Notice from the Liquidity Provider with respect to the Liquidity Agreement, which Advance is requested to be made on _________, ______. The Final Advance should be transferred to [name of bank/wire instructions/ABA number] in favor of account number [           ]  , reference [         ].
     (3) The amount of the Final Advance requested hereby (i) is $__________.___, which equals the Maximum Available Commitment on the date hereof and is to be applied in respect of the funding of the Cash Collateral Account in accordance with Section 3.5(i) of the Intercreditor Agreement, (ii) does not include any amount with respect to the payment of principal of, or premium on, the Class A Certificates, or principal of, or interest or premium on, the Class B Certificates, (iii) was computed in accordance with the provisions of the Class A Certificates, the Liquidity Agreement, the Class A Trust Agreement and the Intercreditor Agreement (a copy of which computation is attached hereto as Schedule I), and (iv) has not been and is not the subject of a prior or contemporaneous Notice of Borrowing.
     (4) Upon receipt by or on behalf of the Borrower of the amount requested hereby, (a) the Borrower will deposit such amount in the Cash Collateral Account and apply the same in accordance with the terms of Section 3.5(i) of the Intercreditor Agreement, (b) no portion of such amount shall be applied by the Borrower for any other purpose and (c) no portion of such amount until so applied shall be commingled with other funds held by the Borrower.
     (5) The Borrower hereby requests that the Advance requested hereby be a Base Rate Advance and that such Base Rate Advance be converted into a LIBOR Advance on the third Business Day following your receipt of this notice.
     The Borrower hereby acknowledges that, pursuant to the Liquidity Agreement, (A) the making of the Final Advance as requested by this Notice of Borrowing shall automatically and irrevocably terminate the obligation of the Liquidity Provider to make further Advances under
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
the Liquidity Agreement; and (B) following the making by the Liquidity Provider of the Final Advance requested by this Notice of Borrowing, the Borrower shall not be entitled to request any further Advances under the Liquidity Agreement.
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
     , the Borrower has executed and delivered this Notice of Borrowing as of the ______ day of _______, ___.
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
Wilmington Trust Company,      as Subordination Agent, as Borrower Rodney Square North 1100 North Market Square Wilmington, DE 19890-0001
Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of October 3, 2007 between Wilmington Trust Company, as Subordination Agent, as agent and trustee for the Southwest Airlines Pass Through Trust 2007-1A, as Borrower, and BNP Paribas (the "")
Liquidity Agreement
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     You are hereby notified that pursuant to Section 6.01(a) of the Liquidity Agreement, by reason of the occurrence of a Liquidity Event of Default and the existence of a Performing Note Deficiency (each as defined therein), we are giving this notice to you in order to cause (i) our obligations to make Advances (as defined therein) under such Liquidity Agreement to terminate on the fifth Business Day after the date on which you receive this notice and (ii) you to request a Final Advance under the Liquidity Agreement pursuant to Section 3.5(i) of the Intercreditor Agreement (as defined in the Liquidity Agreement) as a consequence of your receipt of this notice.
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
     THIS NOTICE IS THE "NOTICE OF TERMINATION" PROVIDED FOR UNDER THE LIQUIDITY AGREEMENT. OUR OBLIGATIONS TO MAKE ADVANCES UNDER THE LIQUIDITY AGREEMENT WILL TERMINATE ON THE FIFTH BUSINESS DAY AFTER THE DATE ON WHICH YOU RECEIVE THIS NOTICE.
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
[Date] Attention:
Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of October 3, 2007, between Wilmington Trust Company, as Subordination Agent, as agent and trustee for the Southwest Airlines Pass Through Trust 2007-1A, as Borrower, and BNP Paribas (the "")
Liquidity Agreement
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     For value received, the undersigned beneficiary hereby irrevocably transfers to:
all rights and obligations of the undersigned as Borrower under the Liquidity Agreement referred to above. The transferee has succeeded the undersigned as Subordination Agent under the Intercreditor Agreement referred to in the first paragraph of the Liquidity Agreement, pursuant to the terms of Section 8.1 of the Intercreditor Agreement.
     By this transfer, all rights of the undersigned as Borrower under the Liquidity Agreement are transferred to the transferee and the transferee shall hereafter have the sole rights and obligations as Borrower thereunder. The undersigned shall pay any costs and expenses of such transfer, including, but not limited to, transfer taxes or governmental charges.
     We ask that this transfer be effective as of , .
                                        
          
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
     The undersigned, a duly authorized signatory of the undersigned borrower (the ""), hereby certifies to (the ""), with reference to the Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of October 3, 2007, between the Borrower and the Liquidity Provider (the ""); the terms defined therein and not otherwise defined herein being used herein as therein defined or referenced), that:
Borrower
BNP PARIBAS (NEW YORK BRANCH)
Liquidity Provider
Liquidity Agreement
     (1) The Borrower is the Subordination Agent under the Intercreditor Agreement.
     (2) The Borrower is delivering this Notice of Borrowing for the making of the Special Termination Advance by the Liquidity Provider to be used for the funding of the Cash Collateral Account in accordance with Section 3.5(k) of the Intercreditor Agreement by reason of the receipt by the Borrower of a Special Termination Notice from the Liquidity Provider with respect to the Liquidity Agreement, which Advance is requested to be made on .
                    
     (3) The amount of the Special Termination Advance requested hereby (i) is $, which equals the Maximum Available Commitment on the date hereof and is to be applied in respect of the funding of the Cash Collateral Account in accordance with Section 3.5(k) of the Intercreditor Agreement, (ii) does not include any amount with respect to the payment of principal of, or premium on, the Class A Certificates, the Class B Certificates, or interest on the Class B Certificates, (iii) was computed in accordance with the provisions of the Class A Certificates, the Class A Trust Agreement and the Intercreditor Agreement (a copy of which computation is attached hereto as Schedule I), and (iv) has not been and is not the subject of a prior or contemporaneous Notice of Borrowing.
                    
     (4) Upon receipt by or on behalf of the Borrower of the amount requested hereby, (a) the Borrower shall deposit such amount in the Cash Collateral Account and apply the same in accordance with the terms of Section 3.5(k) of the Intercreditor Agreement, (b) no portion of such amount shall be applied by the Borrower for any other purpose and (c) no portion of such amount until so applied shall be commingled with other funds held by the Borrower.
     The Borrower hereby acknowledges that, pursuant to the Liquidity Agreement, (A) the making of the Special Termination Advance as requested by this Notice of Borrowing shall automatically and irrevocably terminate the obligation of the Liquidity Provider to make further Advances under the Liquidity Agreement; and (B) following the making by the Liquidity Provider of the Special Termination Advance requested by this Notice of Borrowing, the Borrower shall not be entitled to request any further Advances under the Liquidity Agreement.
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
     , the Borrower has executed and delivered this Notice of Borrowing as of the day of , .
IN WITNESS WHEREOF
                    
                                        
               
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
Wilmington Trust Company Rodney Square North 1100 North Market Square Wilmington, DE 19890-0001
Attention: Corporate Trust Administration
Ladies and Gentlemen:
     You are hereby notified that pursuant to Section 6.01(b) of the Liquidity Agreement, by reason of the Pool Balance of the Class A Certificates exceeding the aggregate outstanding principal amount of the Series A Equipment Notes (other than any Series A Equipment Notes previously sold or with respect to which the collateral securing such Series A Equipment Notes has been disposed of) during the 18-month period prior to August 1, 2022, we are giving this notice to you in order to cause (i) our obligations to make Advances (as defined therein) under such Liquidity Agreement to terminate on the fifth Business Day after the date on which you receive this notice and (ii) you to request a Special Termination Advance under the Liquidity Agreement pursuant to Section 3.5(k) of the Intercreditor Agreement (as defined in the Liquidity Agreement) as a consequence of your receipt of this notice.
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]
     THIS NOTICE IS THE "NOTICE OF SPECIAL TERMINATION" PROVIDED FOR UNDER THE LIQUIDITY AGREEMENT. OUR OBLIGATIONS TO MAKE ADVANCES UNDER THE LIQUIDITY AGREEMENT SHALL TERMINATE ON THE FIFTH BUSINESS DAY AFTER THE DATE ON WHICH YOU RECEIVE THIS NOTICE.
 
[Revolving Credit Agreement]


