FILE:LUV/LUV-8K-20090122163050.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement	Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Entry into a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Amendments to Articles of Incorporation or Bylaws; Change in Fiscal Year
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On January 15, 2009, Southwest Airlines Co. (the "Company") entered into indemnification agreements with its directors (each, an "Indemnitee"). The Company's current directors are David W. Biegler, C. Webb Crockett, William H. Cunningham, John G. Denison, Travis C. Johnson, Gary C. Kelly, Nancy B. Loeffler, John T. Montford, and Daniel D. Villanueva. The description below of the form of indemnification agreement is qualified in its entirety by reference to the form of agreement that is filed as an exhibit to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
Each indemnification agreement requires the Company to indemnify each Indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted by the Texas Business Corporation Act and any successor statute thereto (including the Texas Business Organization Code) when such successor statute becomes applicable to the Company. This means, among other things, that the Company must indemnify the director against expenses (including attorneys' fees), losses, claims, damages, liabilities, judgments, penalties, fines and amounts paid in settlement that are actually and reasonably incurred in an action, suit or proceeding by reason of the fact that the person is or was a director, controlling person, officer, employee, agent or fiduciary of the Company or is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, controlling person, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or other entity if the Indemnitee meets the standard of conduct provided under Texas law. Also as permitted under Texas law, the indemnification agreements require the Company to advance expenses in defending such an action provided that the director undertakes to repay the amounts if the person ultimately is determined not to be entitled to indemnification from the Company. The Company will also make the Indemnitee whole for taxes imposed on the indemnification payments and for costs in any action to establish Indemnitee's right to indemnification, whether or not wholly successful.
In general, the disinterested directors on the board of the Company or a committee of disinterested directors have the authority to determine an Indemnitee's right to indemnification, but the Indemnitee can require that independent legal counsel make this determination if a change in control or potential change in control has occurred. In addition, the Indemnitee can require the Company to establish a trust fund with a third-party trustee sufficient to satisfy the indemnification obligations and expenses if a change in control or potential change in control has occurred.
The indemnification agreements require the Company to continue director and officers' liability insurance coverage for an Indemnitee for six years after the Indemnitee ceases to be a director, and they obligate the Company to procure up to a six-year run-off policy in the event of a change in control or termination of the person in the year following a change in control of the Company. The indemnification agreements also limit the period in which the Company can bring an action against the Indemnitee to three years for breaches of fiduciary duty and to two years for other types of claims.
Definitions of "potential change in control," "change in control" and certain other terms used in this report are set forth in the form of indemnification agreement that is filed as an exhibit to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
 
On January 15, 2009, the Board of Directors of the Company approved the amendment and restatement of the Company's Bylaws, effective January 15, 2009. The description below of the amendments is qualified in its entirety by reference to the Amended and Restated Bylaws that are filed as an exhibit to this report and incorporated herein by reference.
Article II, Section 3 has been changed to add the President as an officer who may call special meetings of shareholders.
Calling of special meetings of shareholders.
Article II, Section 4 has been changed to add the President and the Secretary as officers who may direct the delivery of notice of meetings of shareholders.
Notice of shareholder meetings.
Article II, Section 10 of the prior bylaws has been removed, which section provided for action to be taken by shareholders by unanimous written consent.
Actions by shareholders without a meeting.
Article III, Section 1 has been changed to provide that the business and affairs of the Company shall be managed under the direction of the Board of Directors, in order to better conform to the language of the Texas Business Corporation Act.
Management.
Article III, Section 2 has been changed to remove the mandatory retirement age for directors. The Company's mandatory retirement age for directors is contained in the Company's Corporate Governance Guidelines.
Mandatory director retirement age.
Sections 2 and 3 of Article III have been changed to remove references to classification of directors.
Classified Board.
Sections 1 and 2 of Article IV have been changed to clarify which officers are required to be elected by the Board, and Section 8 of Article IV has been changed to delete a sentence requiring the Board to designate the Chairman, Vice Chairman, or President as Chief Executive Officer.
Elected Officers.
Section 3 of Article IV has been changed to remove restrictions on the Chief Executive Officer's ability to enter into employment contracts with officers and agents of the Company, and Section 8 of Article IV has been changed to specifically state the Chief Executive Officer's authority to execute deeds, conveyances, notes, bonds, and other contracts.
Powers of the Chief Executive Officer.
Article VII, Section 6 has been changed to add the President and the Secretary as officers authorized to vote and otherwise act on behalf of the Company with respect to securities held by the Company in other corporations.
Action with respect to securities of other corporations.
. Sections 4 and 7 of Article II, and Section 8 of Article III have been changed to add language permitting the use of electronic communications and shareholder data.
Electronic communications
 
 
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 3.1
Section 1. The name of the corporation is SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO.
Name:
Section 2. The principal business office of the corporation shall be in Dallas, Texas.
Principal Business Office:
Section 3. The corporation may also have offices at such other places within or without the State of Texas as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine or the business of the corporation may require.
Other Offices:
Section 1. All meetings of the shareholders for the election of directors shall be held at the principal executive offices of the corporation in Dallas, Texas, or at such other place as may be designated by the Board of Directors of the corporation. Meetings of the shareholders for any other purpose may be held at such time and place, within or without the State of Texas, as shall be stated in the notice of the meeting or in a duly executed waiver of notice thereof.
Place of Meetings:
Section 2. Annual meetings of shareholders shall be held on such date and at such time as shall be designated from time to time by the Board of Directors. At each annual meeting, the shareholders shall elect a Board of Directors and transact such other business as may be properly brought before the meeting.
Annual Meetings:
Section 3. Special meetings of the shareholders may be called by the Chairman of the Board, the President, or the Chief Executive Officer and shall be called by the Secretary upon written request, stating the purpose or purposes therefor, by a majority of the whole Board of Directors or by the holders of at least ten (10) percent (or such greater percentage not exceeding a majority as may be specified in the Articles of Incorporation) of all of the shares entitled to vote at the meeting.
Special Meetings:
 
Section 4. Written or printed notice of all shareholders' meetings stating the place, day and hour, and, in the case of a special meeting, the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called, shall be delivered not less than ten (10) days nor more than sixty (60) days before the date of the meeting, personally, by electronic transmission, or by mail, by or at the direction of the President, the Secretary, or the officer or person calling the meeting, to each shareholder of record entitled to vote at such meeting. If mailed, such notice shall be deemed to be delivered when deposited in the United States mail addressed to the shareholder at his address as it appears on the stock transfer books of the corporation, with postage thereon prepaid. On consent of a shareholder, notice may also be given by electronic transmission in accordance with the requirements of the Texas Business Corporation Act and any other applicable law, rule, or regulation.
Notice of Meetings:
Section 5. Business transacted at all special meetings of shareholders shall be confined to the purposes stated in the notice thereof.
Purpose of Special Meetings:
Section 6. For the purpose of determining shareholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of shareholders or any adjournment thereof, or entitled to receive a distribution by the corporation (other than a distribution involving a purchase or redemption by the corporation of any of its own shares) or a share dividend or in order to make a determination of shareholders for any other purpose, the Board of Directors may fix in advance a date as the record date for any such determination of shareholders, such date in any case to be not more than sixty (60) days, and, in the case of a meeting of shareholders, not less than ten (10) days, prior to the date on which the particular action requiring such determination of shareholders is to be taken. If no record date is fixed for the determination of shareholders entitled to notice of or vote at a meeting of shareholders, or shareholders entitled to receive a distribution by the corporation (other than a distribution involving a purchase or redemption by the corporation of any of its own shares) or a share dividend, the date on which notice of the meeting is mailed or the date on which the resolution of the Board of Directors declaring such distribution or share dividend is adopted, as the case may be, shall be the record date for such determination of shareholders. When a determination of shareholders entitled to vote at any meeting of shareholders has been made as provided in this Section, such determination shall apply to any adjournment thereof.
Fixing Record Date:
Section 7. The officer or agent having charge of the stock transfer books for the shares of the corporation shall make, at least ten (10) days before each meeting of shareholders, a complete list of the shareholders entitled to vote at such meeting or any adjournment thereof, arranged in alphabetical order, with the address of and the number of shares held by each, which list, for a period of ten (10) days prior to such meeting, shall be kept on file at the registered office of the corporation and shall be subject to inspection by any shareholder at any time during usual business hours. Alternatively, the list of shareholders may be kept on a reasonably accessible electronic network, if the information required to gain access to the list is provided with the notice of the meeting. Such list shall also be produced and be kept open at the time and place of the meeting and shall be subject to the inspection of any shareholder during the
Voting List:
 
whole time of the meeting. If the meeting is held by means of remote communication, the list must be open to the examination of any shareholder for the duration of the meeting on a reasonably accessible electronic network, and the information required to access the list must be provided to shareholders with the notice of the meeting. The original stock transfer records shall be evidence as to who are the shareholders entitled to examine such list or transfer books or to vote at any meeting of shareholders.
prima facie
Section 8. The holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote (counting for such purposes all abstentions and broker nonvotes), represented in person or by proxy, shall constitute a quorum at meetings of the shareholders, except as otherwise provided in the Articles of Incorporation. If, however, such quorum shall be not present or represented at a meeting of the shareholders, the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote thereat, and represented in person or by proxy, shall have power to adjourn the meeting, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present or represented. At any such reconvened meeting at which a quorum shall be present or represented, any business may be transacted which might have been transacted at the meeting as originally convened had a quorum been present. Shareholders present at a duly organized meeting with a quorum present may continue to do business until adjournment, notwithstanding the withdrawal of enough shareholders to leave less than a quorum.
Quorum:
Section 9.
Voting at Meetings:
(a) With respect to any matter other than the election of directors or a matter for which the affirmative vote of the holders of a specified portion of the shares entitled to vote is required by the Texas Business Corporation Act, the act of the shareholders shall be the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote on, and voted for or against, the matter at a meeting of shareholders at which a quorum is present; that, for purposes of this sentence, all abstentions and broker nonvotes shall not be counted as voted either for or against such matter. With respect to the election of directors, directors shall be elected by a plurality of the votes cast by the holders of shares entitled to vote in the election of directors at a meeting of shareholders at which a quorum is present; that abstentions and broker nonvotes shall not be counted as votes cast either for or against any nominee for director.
provided
provided,
(b) Each outstanding share, regardless of class, shall be entitled to one vote on each matter submitted to a vote at a meeting of shareholders, except to the extent that the voting rights of shares of any class or series are limited or denied by the Articles of Incorporation, or as otherwise provide by law. No shareholder shall have the right of cumulative voting.
(c) A shareholder may vote either in person or by proxy executed in writing by the shareholder or by his duly authorized attorney in fact. No proxy shall be valid after eleven (11) months from the date of its execution unless otherwise provided in the proxy. Each proxy shall be revocable unless the proxy form conspicuously states that the proxy is irrevocable and the proxy is coupled with an interest.
 
Section 10. The chairman of each meeting of shareholders shall appoint one or more persons to act as inspectors of election. The inspectors of election shall report to the meeting the number of shares of each class and series of stock, and of all classes, represented either in person or by proxy. The inspectors of election shall oversee the vote of the shareholders for the election of directors and for any other matters that are put to a vote of shareholders at the meeting; receive a ballot evidencing votes cast by the proxy committee of the Board of Directors; judge the qualifications of shareholders voting; collect, count, and report the results of ballots cast by any shareholders voting in person; and perform such other duties as may be required by the chairman of the meeting or the shareholders.
Inspectors of Election:
Section 11. At an annual meeting of shareholders, only such business shall be conducted as shall have been brought before the meeting (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (ii) by any shareholder of the corporation who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 11. For business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a shareholder, the shareholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the corporation. To be timely, a shareholder's notice must be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the corporation, not less than sixty (60) days nor more than ninety (90) days prior to the meeting; provided, however, that in the event that less than thirty (30) days' notice or prior public disclosure of the date of the meeting is given or made to the shareholders, notice by the shareholder to be timely must be received not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which such notice of the date of the annual meeting was mailed or such public disclosure was made. A shareholder's notice to the Secretary shall set forth as to each matter the shareholder proposes to bring before the annual meeting the following information: (a) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the annual meeting and the reasons for conducting such business at the annual meeting; (b) the name and address, as they appear on the corporation's books, of the shareholder proposing such business; (c) the number of shares of the corporation which are beneficially owned by the shareholder; and (d) any material interest of the shareholder in such business. Notwithstanding anything in these Bylaws to the contrary, no business shall be conducted at an annual meeting except in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 11. The chairman of an annual meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that business was not properly brought before the meeting and in accordance with the provisions of this Section 11, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and any such business not properly brought before the meeting shall not be transacted. Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 11, a shareholder seeking to have a proposal included in the corporation's proxy statement shall comply with the requirements of Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (including, but not limited to, Rule 14a-8 or its successor provision).
Notice of Shareholder Business:
 
Section 13. Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors of the corporation may be made at a meeting of shareholders (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors or (ii) by any shareholder of the corporation entitled to vote for the election of directors at the meeting who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 13. Nominations by shareholders shall be made pursuant to timely notice in writing to the Secretary of the corporation. To be timely, a shareholder's notice shall be delivered to or mailed and received at the principal executive offices of the corporation not less than sixty (60) days nor more than ninety (90) days prior to the meeting; provided, however, that in the event that less than thirty (30) days' notice or prior public disclosure of the date of the meeting is given or made to shareholders, notice by the shareholder to be timely must be so received not later than the close of business on the tenth (10th) day following the day on which such notice of the date of the meeting was mailed or such public disclosure was made. Such shareholder's notice shall set forth (a) as to each person whom the shareholder proposes to nominate for election or reelection as a director, all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (including such person's written consent to being named in the proxy statement as a nominee and to serving as a director if elected); and (b) as to the shareholder giving the notice (i) the name and address, as they appear on the corporation's books, of such shareholder and (ii) the number of shares of the corporation which are beneficially owned by such shareholder. At the request of the Board of Directors, any person nominated by the Board of Directors for election as a director shall furnish to the Secretary of the corporation that information required to be set forth in a shareholder's notice of nomination which pertains to the nominee. No person shall be eligible for election as a director of the corporation unless nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in these Bylaws. The chairman of the meeting shall, if the facts warrant, determine and declare to the meeting that a nomination was not made in accordance with the procedures prescribed by these Bylaws, and if he should so determine, he shall so declare to the meeting and the defective nomination shall be disregarded.
Notice of Shareholder Nominees:
Section 1. The business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed under the direction of a Board of Directors.
Management:
Section 2. The number of directors of the corporation shall be determined from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors, but no decrease in such number shall have the effect of shortening the term of any incumbent director. At each annual meeting of shareholders, the shareholders shall elect directors to hold office until the next succeeding annual meeting. Each director shall hold office for the term for which he is elected and until his successor shall have been elected and qualified or until his earlier death,
Number; Term of Office; Qualifications:
 
retirement, resignation, or removal for cause in accordance with the provisions of these Bylaws. Directors need not be residents of the State of Texas or shareholders of the corporation, but they must have been nominated by either the Board of Directors or by shareholders in accordance with the procedures set forth in these Bylaws in order to be eligible for election as directors.
Section 3. Any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors may be filled in accordance with the following paragraph of this Section 3 or may be filled by the affirmative vote of a majority of the remaining directors though less than a quorum of the Board of Directors. A director elected to fill a vacancy shall be elected for the unexpired term of his predecessor in office.
Vacancies; Increases in the Number of Directors:
Any vacancy occurring in the Board of Directors or any directorship to be filled by reason of an increase in the number of directors (i) may be filled by election at an annual or special meeting of shareholders called for that purpose or (ii) may be filled by the Board of Directors; provided that, with respect to any directorship to be filled by the Board of Directors by reason of an increase in the number of directors (a) such directorship shall be for a term of office continuing only until the next election of one or more directors by shareholders and (b) the Board of Directors may not fill more than two such directorships during the period between any two successive annual meetings of shareholders.
Section 4. At any meeting of shareholders called expressly for that purpose, any director may be removed, but only for cause, by vote of the holders of a majority of the shares then entitled to vote for the election of directors.
Removal:
Section 5. Meetings of the Board of Directors, regular or special, may be held either within or without the State of Texas.
Place of Meeting:
Section 6. The first meeting of each newly elected Board shall be held immediately following the shareholders' meeting at which the directors are elected and at the place at which such annual meeting is held, or the directors may meet at such time and place as shall be fixed by the consent in writing of the directors. No notice of such meeting shall be necessary to the newly elected directors in order to legally constitute the meeting provided a quorum shall be present.
First Meeting:
Section 7. Regular meetings of the Board of Directors may be held without notice at such time and place as shall from time to time be determined by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Regular Meetings:
Section 8. Special meetings of the Board of Directors may be called by the Chairman of the Board or the Chief Executive Officer on two days' notice to each director, either personally, by telephone, by mail, by telegram, or, on consent of a director, by electronic transmission. Special meetings shall be called by the Chairman of the Board, or by the Secretary, in like manner and on like notice on the written request of the majority of the whole Board of Directors.
Special Meetings:
 
Section 9. Neither the purpose of, nor the business to be transacted at, any regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors need be specified in the notice or waiver of notice of such meeting.
Purpose of Meetings:
Section 10. A majority of the number of directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at any meeting thereof. The act of the majority of the directors present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the Board of Directors, unless the act of a greater number is required by law or the Articles of Incorporation or these bylaws. If a quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the Board of Directors, the directors present thereat may adjourn the meeting from time to time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting, until a quorum shall be present.
Quorum:
Section 11. The Board of Directors may, by resolution passed by a majority of the whole Board, designate one or more committees, including an "Executive Committee," each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the corporation, which, to the extent provided in said resolution, shall have and may exercise all of the authority of the Board of Directors in the business and affairs of the corporation, except where action of the Board is mandatorily required by law, and may have power to authorize the seal of the corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it. Such committee or committees shall have such name or names as may be determined from time to time by resolution adopted by the Board of Directors. Such committees shall keep regular minutes of their proceedings and report the same to the Board when required.
Committee of Directors:
Section 12. Any action required or permitted to be taken at a meeting of the Board of Directors or any committee may be taken without a meeting if a consent in writing, setting forth the action so taken, is signed by all the members of the Board of Directors or committee, as the case may be. Such consent shall have the same force and effect as a unanimous vote at a meeting. The signed consent, or a signed copy, shall be placed in the minute book.
Action Without Meeting:
 
Section 1. The officers of the corporation shall consist of a President and a Secretary and such other officers as may be from time to time required by the Texas Business Corporation Act.
Number and Designation:
Section 2. The Board of Directors at its first meeting after the annual meeting of the shareholders shall elect a President and a Secretary and may elect a Chairman of the Board and a Vice Chairman of the Board from among its members, as well as a Chief Executive Officer, Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, and a Treasurer and Assistant Treasurers, none of whom need to be a member of the Board. Any two or more offices may be held by the same person.
Election:
Section 3. The Chief Executive Officer may appoint such other officers and agents as he may deem necessary for the efficient and successful conduct of the business of the corporation.
Other Officers:
Section 4. The officers, agents, or members of any committees of the corporation elected or appointed by the Board of Directors shall hold office until their successors are chosen and qualify in their stead; provided, that any such officer, agent, or member of such committees may be removed at any time by the majority vote of the whole Board of Directors whenever in its sole judgment the best interests of the corporation will be served thereby, but such removal shall be without prejudice to the contract rights, if any, of the person so removed. Any officer or agent appointed by the Chief Executive Officer may be removed at any time by majority vote of the whole Board of Directors or by the Chief Executive Officer. Election or appointment of an officer or agent shall not of itself create contract rights.
Term of Office and Removal:
Section 5. The salaries of all officers of the corporation shall be fixed by, or at the direction of, the Board of Directors or its Compensation Committee.
Compensation:
Section 6. If elected, the Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders and directors; and he shall have such other powers and duties as the Board of Directors shall prescribe.
The Chairman of the Board:
Section 7. If elected, and in the absence of the Chairman of the Board, the Vice Chairman of the Board shall preside at all meetings of the shareholders and directors. The Vice Chairman shall have authority to execute deeds, conveyances, notes, bonds, and other contracts either with or without the attestation of the Secretary required thereon and either with or without the seal of the corporation.
Vice Chairman of the Board:
 
Section 8. The Chief Executive Officer shall have responsibility for the general management and direction of the business of the Corporation and for the execution of all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors. He shall have authority to execute deeds, conveyances, notes, bonds, and other contracts either with or without the attestation of the Secretary required thereon and either with or without the seal of the corporation. In addition to the powers prescribed in these bylaws, he shall have all of the powers usually vested in the Chief Executive Officer of a corporation and such other powers as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board of Directors. He may delegate any of his powers and duties to any other officer with such limitations as he may deem proper.
Chief Executive Officer:
Section 9. The President may execute deeds, conveyances, notes, bonds, and other contracts either or without the attestation of the Secretary required thereon and either with or without the seal of the corporation. In addition to the powers prescribed in these bylaws, he shall have all of the powers as may be prescribed from time to time by the Board of Directors. If he is not designated as Chief Executive Officer, the President shall have such powers and perform such duties as may be delegated to him by the Chief Executive Officer, and shall be vested with all the powers and authorized to perform all the duties of the Chief Executive Officer in his absence or inability to act. He may delegate any of his powers and duties to any other officer with such limitations as he may deem proper.
President:
Section 10. The Vice Presidents, in the order of their rank and seniority in office, in the absence or disability of the President shall perform the duties and exercise the powers of the President, and shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors shall prescribe.
Vice Presidents:
Section 11. The Secretary shall attend all meetings of the Board of Directors and all meetings of the shareholders and record all votes and the minutes of all proceedings in a book to be kept for that purpose and shall perform like duties for the standing committees when required. He shall give, or cause to be given, notice of all meetings of the shareholders and special meetings of the Board of Directors, and shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed by the Board of Directors or President, under whose supervision he shall be; he shall keep the seal the corporation and, when authorized by the Board, affix the same to any instrument requiring it and, when so affixed, it shall be attested by his signature or by the signature of the Treasurer or an Assistant Secretary or Assistant Treasurer.
The Secretary:
Section 12. The Assistant Secretaries, in order of their seniority in office, shall, in the absence or disability of the Secretary, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Secretary and shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors shall prescribe.
The Assistant Secretaries:
Section 13. The Treasurer shall have supervision over the corporate funds and securities and shall keep or cause to be kept full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the corporation and shall deposit or cause to be deposited all moneys and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the corporation in such depositories as may be designated by the Board of Directors, shall disburse the funds of the
The Treasurer:
 
corporation as may be ordered by the Board, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements, and shall render to the Chief Executive Officer and directors, at the regular meetings of the Board, or whenever they may require it, an account of all the transactions under his supervision as Treasurer and of the financial condition of the corporation. If required by the Board of Directors, the Treasurer and persons acting under this supervision shall give the corporation a bond in such sum and with such surety or sureties as shall be satisfactory to the Board for the faithful performance of their duties and for the restoration to the corporation, in case of their death, resignation, retirement, or removal from office, of all books, papers, vouchers, money, and other property of whatever kind in their possession or under their control belonging to the corporation.
Section 14. The Assistant Treasurers, in the order of their seniority in office, shall, in the absence or disability of the Treasurer, perform the duties and exercise the powers of the Treasurer and shall perform such other duties as the Board of Directors shall prescribe.
The Assistant Treasurers:
Section 1. The shares of the corporation's stock may be certificated or uncertificated, as provided under Texas law. Any certificates representing shares of stock shall be in such form as is approved by resolution of the Board of Directors and as may be required by law and shall be numbered and entered in the stock records of the corporation as they are issued. They shall show the holder's name and number of shares and shall be signed by the Chairman of the Board, if any, or the Chief Executive Officer and the Secretary of the corporation, and may be sealed with the seal of the corporation or a facsimile thereof. The signatures of the Chairman of the Board or Chief Executive Officer and of the Secretary upon a certificate may be facsimiles. In case any officer who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon such certificate shall have ceased to be such officer before such certificate is issued, it may be issued by the corporation with the same effect as if he were such officer at the date of its issuance. No certificate shall be issued for any share until the consideration therefor, fixed as provided by law, has been fully paid.
Form and Issuance:
Section 2. The corporation may, but shall not be obligated to, issue fractions of a share, either represented by a certificate or uncertificated, and the Board of Directors may, in lieu thereof, (i) arrange for the disposition thereof by those entitled thereto, (ii) pay the fair value in cash, or (iii) issue scrip in registered or bearer form which shall entitle the holder to receive a certificate for a full share or an uncertificated full share only upon the surrender of such scrip aggregating a full share. A certificate for a fractional share or an uncertificated fractional share shall, but scrip shall not, unless otherwise provided therein, entitle the holder to exercise voting rights, to receive dividends thereon, or to participate in any of the
Fractional Shares:
 
assets of the corporation in the event of liquidation. Such scrip if issued shall become void if not exchanged for certificates representing full shares or uncertificated full shares within one year after its issue, or such scrip may be subject to the condition that the shares for which it is exchangeable may be sold by the corporation and the proceeds thereof distributed to the holders of such scrip, and the same may be subject to any other conditions which the Board of Directors may deem advisable.
Section 3. Any person claiming a share certificate to be lost, stolen, or destroyed shall (i) make an affidavit of the fact in such manner as the Board of Directors may require, and, (ii) if so required by the Board of Directors, make proof of loss, theft, or destruction in such manner as it shall require and/or give the corporation a bond in such sum as it may direct as indemnity against any claim that may be made against the corporation with respect to the certificate alleged to have been lost, stolen, or destroyed. The Board of Directors may direct the issuance of a new certificate or certificates of stock or of uncertificated shares in place of any certificate or certificates previously issued by the corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen, or destroyed.
Lost, Stolen, or Destroyed Certificates:
Section 4. Upon surrender to the corporation or the transfer agent of the corporation of a certificate for shares duly endorsed or accompanied by proper evidence of succession, assignment, or authority to transfer, and upon payment of all taxes as may be imposed by law, it shall be the duty of the corporation to issue a new certificate or evidence of the issuance of uncertificated shares to the person entitled thereto, cancel the old certificate, and record the transaction upon the corporation's books.
Transfer of Shares:
Upon the receipt of proper transfer instructions from the registered owner of uncertificated shares, such uncertificated shares shall be cancelled, issuance of new equivalent uncertificated shares or of certificated shares shall be made to the person entitled thereto, and the transaction shall be recorded upon the corporation's books.
Section 5. The corporation shall be entitled to treat the holder of record of any share or shares of stock as the holder in fact thereof and, accordingly, shall not be bound to recognize any equitable or other claim to or interest in such share or shares on the part of any other person, whether or not it shall have express or other notice thereof, except as otherwise provided by the laws of Texas.
Registered Shareholders:
 
Section 1. Whenever any notice is required to be given any shareholder or director under the provisions of the law or the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws, a waiver thereof in writing signed by the person or persons entitled to said notice, whether before or after the time stated therein, shall be deemed equivalent to the giving of such notice.
Waiver in Writing:
Section 2. Attendance of a director or a shareholder, whether in person or by proxy, at any meeting shall constitute a waiver of notice of such meeting, except where such director or shareholder attends a meeting for the express purpose of objecting to the transaction of any business on the ground that the meeting is not lawfully called or convened.
Waiver by Attendance:
Section 1. Dividends upon the shares of the corporation, subject to the provisions, if any, of the Articles of Incorporation, may in the exercise of its discretion be declared by the Board of Directors at any regular or special meeting, to the extent permitted by law. Dividends may be paid in cash, in property, or in shares of the corporation. Before payment of any dividend, there may be set aside out of any funds of the corporation available for dividends such sum or sums as the directors from time to time in their absolute discretion, think proper as a reserve fund to meet contingencies, or for equalizing dividends, or for repairing or maintaining any property of the corporation, or for such other purpose as the directors shall think conducive to the interest of the corporation, and the directors may modify or abolish any such reserve in the manner in which it was created.
Dividends and Reserves:
Section 2. The fiscal year of the corporation shall be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors.
Fiscal Year:
Section 3. The corporate seal shall have inscribed therein the name of the corporation and shall be in such form as may be approved by the Board of Directors. Said seal may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or otherwise reproduced.
Seal:
Section 4. All of the powers of this corporation, insofar as the same may be lawfully vested by these Bylaws in the Board of Directors, are hereby conferred upon the Board of Directors of this corporation. In furtherance and not in limitation of that power, the Board of Directors may amend or repeal these Bylaws, or adopt new bylaws, unless (i) such power shall be reserved exclusively to the shareholders in whole or part by the Articles of Incorporation or the laws of Texas or (ii) the shareholders in amending, repealing or adopting a particular bylaw shall have expressly provided that the Board of Directors may not amend or repeal that bylaw. Unless the Articles of Incorporation or a bylaw adopted by the shareholders
Amendments to Bylaws:
 
shall provide otherwise as to all or some portion of the corporation's bylaws, the shareholders may amend, repeal, or adopt (but only by the affirmative vote of the holders of not less than a majority of the then outstanding shares of capital stock of the corporation entitled to vote with respect thereto) the corporation's bylaws even though the bylaws may also be amended, repealed, or adopted by the Board of Directors.
Section 5. The provisions of Sections 11 and 12 of Article II and of Sections 2, 3, and 4 of Article III are subject to the rights of any holders of any class or series of stock having a preference over the Common Stock of the corporation as to dividends or upon liquidation to elect directors under specified circumstances.
Preferred Shareholders:
Section 6. Unless otherwise directed by the Board of Directors, the Chief Executive Officer, the President, and the Secretary shall have power to vote and otherwise act on behalf of the corporation, in person or by proxy, at any meeting of shareholders of, or with respect to any action of shareholders of, any other corporation in which the corporation may hold securities and otherwise to exercise any and all rights and powers which the corporation may possess by reason of its ownership of securities in such other corporation.
Action With Respect to Securities of Other Corporations:
Section 1. Subject to the limitations and conditions as provided in this Article VIII, each person who was or is made a party to, or is threatened to be made a party to, any threatened, pending or completed action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative, arbitrative or investigative (hereinafter called a "proceeding"), or any appeal in such a proceeding or any inquiry or investigation that could lead to such a proceeding, by reason of the fact that he (or a person of whom he is the legal representative) is or was a director or officer of the corporation (or while a director or officer of the corporation is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, partner, venturer, proprietor, trustee, Employee, agent, or similar functionary of another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, joint venture, proprietorship, trust, Employee benefit plan, or other enterprise) shall be indemnified by the corporation to the fullest extent permitted by the Texas Business Corporation Act, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than said law permitted the corporation to provide prior to such amendment) against judgments, penalties (including excise and similar taxes and punitive damages), fines, settlements and reasonable expenses (including, without limitation, court costs and attorneys' fees) actually incurred by such person in connection with such proceeding, appeal, inquiry or investigation, and indemnification under this Article VIII shall continue as to a person
Right to Indemnification:
 
who has ceased to serve in the capacity which initially entitled such person to indemnity hereunder; provided, however, that in no case shall the corporation indemnify any such person (or the legal representative of any such person) otherwise than for his reasonable expenses, in respect of any proceeding (i) in which such person shall have been finally adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction (after exhaustion of all appeals therefrom) to be liable on the basis that personal benefit was improperly received by him, whether or not the benefit resulted from an action taken in such person's official capacity, or (ii) in which such person shall have been found liable to the corporation; and provided, further, that the corporation shall not indemnify any such person for his reasonable expenses actually incurred in connection with any proceeding in which he shall have been found liable for willful or intentional misconduct in the performance of his duty to the corporation. The rights granted pursuant to this Article VIII shall be deemed contract rights, and no amendment, modification or repeal of this Article VIII shall have the effect of limiting or denying any such rights with respect to actions taken or proceedings arising prior to any such amendment, modification or repeal. It is expressly acknowledged that the indemnification provided in this Article VIII could involve indemnification for negligence or under theories of strict liability.
Section 2. The right to indemnification conferred in this Article VIII shall include the right to be paid or reimbursed by the corporation the reasonable expenses incurred by a person of the type entitled to be indemnified under Section 1 who was, or is threatened to be made a named defendant or respondent in a proceeding, in advance of the final disposition of the proceeding and without any determination as to the person's ultimate entitlement to indemnification; provided, however, that the payment of such expenses incurred by any such person in advance of the final disposition of a proceeding shall be made only upon delivery to the corporation of a written affirmation by such person of his good faith belief that he has met the standard of conduct necessary for indemnification under this Article VIII and a written undertaking, by or on behalf of such person, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall be ultimately determined that such person is not entitled to be indemnified under this Article VIII or otherwise.
Advance Payment:
Section 3. The corporation, by adoption of a resolution of the Board of Directors, may indemnify and advance expenses to an Employee or agent of the corporation to the same extent and subject to the same conditions under which it may indemnify and advance expenses to directors and officers under this Article VIII; and the corporation may so indemnify and advance expenses to persons who are not or were not directors, officers, employees, or agents of the corporation but who are or were serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, partner, venturer, proprietor, trustee, Employee, agent, or similar functionary of another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, joint venture, proprietorship, trust, Employee benefit plan, or other enterprise against any liability asserted against him and incurred by him in such a capacity or arising out of his status as such a person to the same extent that it may indemnify and advance expenses to directors and officers under this Article VIII.
Indemnification of Employees and Agents:
 
Section 4. Notwithstanding any other provision of this Article VIII, the corporation may pay or reimburse expenses incurred by a director or officer in connection with his appearance as a witness or his other participation in a proceeding at a time when he is not a named defendant or respondent in the proceeding.
Appearance as a Witness:
Section 5. The right to indemnification and the advancement and payment of expenses conferred in this Article VIII shall not be exclusive of any other right which a director or officer or other person indemnified pursuant to Section 3 of this Article VIII may have or hereafter acquire under any law (common or statutory), provision of the Articles of Incorporation or these Bylaws, agreement, vote of shareholders or disinterested directors or otherwise.
Nonexclusivity of Rights:
Section 6. The corporation may purchase and maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any person who is or was serving as a director, officer, Employee, or agent of the corporation or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, partner, venturer, proprietor, trustee, Employee, agent, or similar functionary of another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, joint venture, proprietorship, Employee benefit plan, trust, or other enterprise against any expense, liability, or loss, whether or not the corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability, or loss under this Article VIII.
Insurance:
Section 7. To the extent required by law, any indemnification of or advance of expenses to a director or officer in accordance with this Article VIII shall be reported in writing to the shareholders with or before the notice or waiver of notice of the next shareholders' meeting or with or before the next submission to shareholders of a consent to action without a meeting and, in any case, within the 12-month period immediately following the date of the indemnification or advance.
Shareholder Notification:
Section 8. If this Article VIII or any portion hereof shall be invalidated on any ground by any court of competent jurisdiction, then the corporation shall nevertheless indemnify and advance expenses to each director, officer, and other person indemnified pursuant to this Article VIII to the extent permitted by any applicable portion of this Article VIII that shall not have been invalidated.
Savings Clause:
 

Exhibit 10.1
This Agreement ("Agreement") is made and entered into as of the day of , 2009, by and between Southwest Airlines Co., a Texas corporation (the "Company"), and [Name] ("Indemnitee"), who is a director of the Company.
        
                    
A. Highly competent and experienced persons are reluctant to serve corporations as directors unless they are provided with adequate protection through insurance and indemnification against claims and actions against them arising out of their service to and activities on behalf of the Company.
B. The Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board") has determined that the inability to attract and retain such persons would be detrimental to the best interests of the Company and its shareholders and that the Company should act to assure such persons that there will be increased certainty of such protection in the future.
C. The Board has also determined that it is reasonable, prudent and necessary for the Company, in addition to purchasing and maintaining directors' and officers' liability insurance (or otherwise providing for adequate arrangements of self-insurance), contractually to obligate itself to indemnify such persons to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law so that they will serve or continue to serve the Company free from undue concern that they will not be adequately protected.
D. Indemnitee is willing to serve, continue to serve and to take on additional service for or on behalf of the Company on the condition that Indemnitee be so indemnified to the fullest extent permitted by law.
E. Section 1 of Article VIII of the bylaws of the Company provides for indemnification of directors to the fullest extent permitted by law. The indemnification rights in this Agreement are intended to be in addition to those provided in the bylaws of the Company.
In consideration of the foregoing and the mutual covenants herein contained, and other good and valuable consideration, the sufficiency and receipt of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereby agree as follows:
As used herein, the following words and terms shall have the following respective meanings (whether singular or plural):
"Acquiring Person" means any Person other than (i) the Company, (ii) any of the Company's Subsidiaries, (iii) any employee benefit plan of the Company or of a Subsidiary of
the Company or of a Company owned directly or indirectly by the shareholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company, or (iv) any trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under an employee benefit plan of the Company or of a Subsidiary of the Company or of a Company owned directly or indirectly by the shareholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock of the Company.
"Change in Control" means the occurrence of any of the following events:
(i) The acquisition by any Person of beneficial ownership (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 promulgated under the Exchange Act) of 40% or more of either (x) the then outstanding shares of Common Stock of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Common Stock") or (y) the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities of the Company (the "Outstanding Company Voting Securities"); provided, however, that for purposes of this Subparagraph (i), the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change of Control: (A) any acquisition directly from the Company, (B) any acquisition by the Company, (C) any acquisition by any employee benefit plan (or related trust) sponsored or maintained by the Company or any entity controlled by the Company or (D) any acquisition by any corporation pursuant to a transaction that complies with clauses (A), (B) and (C) of paragraph (iii) below; or
(ii) Members of the Incumbent Board cease for any reason to constitute at least a majority of the Board; or
(iii) Consummation of a reorganization, merger or consolidation or sale or other disposition of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company or an acquisition of assets of another entity (a "Business Combination"), in each case, unless, following such Business Combination, (A) all or substantially all of the individuals and entities who were the beneficial owners, respectively, of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities immediately prior to such Business Combination beneficially own, directly or indirectly, more than 50% of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common equity and the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities of the entity resulting from such Business Combination (including an entity that as a result of such transaction owns the Company or all or substantially all of the Company's assets either directly or through one or more subsidiaries) in substantially the same proportions as their ownership, immediately prior to such Business Combination of the Outstanding Company Common Stock and Outstanding Company Voting Securities, as the case may be, (B) no Person (excluding any employee benefit plan (or related trust) of the Company or the entity resulting from such Business Combination) beneficially owns, directly or indirectly, 40% or more of, respectively, the then outstanding shares of common equity of the entity resulting from such Business Combination or the combined voting power of the then outstanding Voting Securities of such entity except to the extent that such ownership results solely from ownership of the Company that existed prior to the Business Combination, and (C) at least a majority of the members of the board of directors or other similar governing body of the entity resulting from such Business Combination were members of the Incumbent Board at the time of the execution of the initial agreement, or of the action of the Board, providing for such Business Combination; or
 
(iv) Approval by the shareholders of the Company of a complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company.
"Claim" means an actual or threatened claim or request for relief that was, is or may be made by reason of anything done or not done by Indemnitee in, or by reason of any event or occurrence related to, Indemnitee's Corporate Status.
"Corporate Status" means the status of a person who is, becomes, was or may deemed to be or to have been a director, controlling person, officer, employee, agent or fiduciary of the Company or is, becomes or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, controlling person, officer, partner, member, shareholder, venturer, proprietor, trustee, employee, agent, fiduciary or similar functionary of another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, sole proprietorship, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise. For purposes of this Agreement, the Company agrees that Indemnitee's service on behalf of or with respect to any Subsidiary of the Company shall be deemed to be at the request of the Company.
"Disinterested Director" with respect to any request by Indemnitee for indemnification hereunder, means a director of the Company who at the time of the vote is not a named defendant or respondent in the Proceeding in respect of which indemnification is sought by Indemnitee.
"Exchange Act" means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
"Expenses" means all attorneys' fees and disbursements, retainers, accountant's fees and disbursements, private investigator fees and disbursements, court costs, transcript costs, fees and expenses of experts, witness fees and expenses, travel expenses, duplicating costs, printing and binding costs, telephone charges, postage, delivery service fees and all other disbursements, costs or expenses of the types customarily incurred in connection with prosecuting, defending (including affirmative defenses and counterclaims), preparing to prosecute or defend, investigating, settling, appealing (including the premium, security for, and other costs relating to any cost bonds, supersedeas bonds or other appeal bonds or their equivalent), being or preparing to be a witness in, or participating in or preparing to participate in (including on appeal) a Proceeding or in connection with a Claim, and all judgments, penalties (including excise or similar taxes), fines, amounts paid in settlement, and all interest or finance charges attributable to any thereof. Should any payments by the Company under this Agreement be determined to be subject to any federal, state or local income or excise tax, "Expenses" shall also include such amounts as are necessary to place Indemnitee in the same after-tax position (after giving effect to all applicable taxes) as Indemnitee would have been in had no such tax been determined to apply to such payments.
"Incumbent Board" means the individuals who, as of the date of this Agreement, constitute the Board and any other individual who becomes a director of the Company after that date and whose election or appointment by the Board or nomination for election by the Company's shareholders was approved by a vote of at least a majority of the directors then comprising the Incumbent Board, but excluding, for this purpose, any such individual whose initial assumption of office occurs as a result of an actual or threatened election contest with respect to the election or removal of directors or other actual or threatened solicitation of proxies or consents by or on behalf of a Person other than the Incumbent Board.
 
"Independent Counsel" means a law firm, or a member of a law firm, that is experienced in matters of corporation law and neither contemporaneously is, nor in the five years theretofore has been, retained to represent: (a) the Company or Indemnitee in any matter material to either such party (other than as Independent Counsel under this Agreement or similar agreements), (b) any other party to the Proceeding giving rise to a claim for indemnification hereunder, or (c) the beneficial owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing 5% or more of the combined voting power of the Outstanding Company Voting Securities (other than, in each such case, with respect to matters concerning the rights of Indemnitee under this Agreement or of other indemnitees under other indemnification agreements). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term "Independent Counsel" shall not include any person who, under the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing, would have a conflict of interest in representing either the Company or Indemnitee in an action to determine Indemnitee's rights under this Agreement.
"Independent Directors" means the directors on the Board that are independent directors as defined in Section 303A of the New York Stock Exchange Listed Company Manual or successor provision, or, if the Company's common stock is not then quoted on the New York Stock Exchange, that qualify as independent, disinterested, or a similar term as defined in the rules of the principal securities exchange or inter-dealer quotation system on which the Company's common stock is then listed or quoted.
"Person" means any individual, entity or group (within the meaning of Sections 13(d)(3) and 14(d)(2) of the Exchange Act).
"Potential Change in Control" shall be deemed to have occurred if (i) any Person shall have announced publicly an intention to effect a Change in Control, or commenced any action (such as the commencement of a tender offer for the Company's Common Stock or the solicitation of proxies for the election of any of the Company's directors) that, if successful, could reasonably be expected to result in the occurrence of a Change in Control; (ii) the Company enters into an agreement, the consummation of which would constitute a Change in Control; or (iii) any other event occurs that the Board declares to be a Potential Change of Control.
"Proceeding" means any threatened, pending or completed action, suit, arbitration, investigation, inquiry, alternate dispute resolution mechanism, administrative or legislative hearing, or any other proceeding (including any securities laws action, suit, arbitration, alternative dispute resolution mechanism, hearing or procedure) whether civil, criminal, administrative, arbitrative or investigative and whether or not based upon events occurring, or actions taken, before the date hereof, and any appeal in or related to any such action, suit, arbitration, investigation, hearing or proceeding and any inquiry or investigation (including discovery), whether conducted by or in the right of the Company or any other Person, that Indemnitee in good faith believes could lead to any such action, suit, arbitration, alternative dispute resolution mechanism, hearing or other proceeding or appeal thereof.
 
"Subsidiary" means, with respect to any Person, any corporation or other entity of which a majority of the voting power of the voting equity securities or equity interest is owned, directly or indirectly, by that Person.
"TBCA" means the Texas Business Corporation Act and any successor statute thereto (including the Texas Business Organization Code) when such successor statute becomes applicable to the Company, as either of them may from time to time be amended.
"Voting Securities" means any securities that vote generally in the election of directors, in the admission of general partners, or in the selection of any other similar governing body.
Indemnitee is serving as a director of the Company. Indemnitee may from time to time also agree to serve, as the Company may request from time to time, in another capacity for the Company (including an officer position or another director position) or as a director, officer, partner, member, venturer, proprietor, trustee, employee, agent, fiduciary or similar functionary of another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, joint venture, limited liability company, sole proprietorship, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise. Indemnitee and the Company each acknowledge that they have entered into this Agreement as a means of inducing Indemnitee to serve, or continue to serve, the Company in such capacities. Indemnitee may at any time and for any reason resign from such position or positions (subject to any other contractual obligation or any obligation imposed by operation of law). The Company shall have no obligation under this Agreement to continue Indemnitee in any such position or positions.
Section 3.1 . Subject to the provisions set forth in Article IV, the Company shall indemnify, and advance Expenses to, Indemnitee to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law in effect on the date hereof and to such greater extent as applicable law may hereafter from time to time permit. The other provisions set forth in this Agreement are provided in addition to and as a means of furtherance and implementation of, and not in limitation of, the obligations expressed in this Article III. No requirement, condition to or limitation of any right to indemnification or to advancement of Expenses under this Article III shall in any way limit the rights of Indemnitee under Article VII.
General
Section 3.2 . Indemnitee shall be entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Section 3.2 if, by reason of anything done or not done by Indemnitee in, or by reason of any event or occurrence related to (or arising in part out of), Indemnitee's Corporate Status, Indemnitee is, was or becomes, or is threatened to be made, a party to, or witness or other participant in any Proceeding. Pursuant to this Section 3.2, Indemnitee shall be indemnified against any and all Expenses, losses, claims, damages, liabilities, judgments, penalties (including excise or similar taxes), fines and amounts paid in
Additional Indemnity of the Company
 
settlement (including all interest, assessments and other charges paid or payable in connection with or in respect of any such Expenses, losses, claims, damages, liabilities, judgments, penalties (including excise or similar taxes), fines and amounts paid in settlement), joint or several, actually and reasonably incurred by Indemnitee or on Indemnitee's behalf in connection with such Proceeding or any Claim, issue or matter therein. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the obligations of the Company under this Section 3.2 shall be subject to the condition that no determination (which, in any case in which Independent Counsel is involved, shall be in a form of a written opinion) shall have been made pursuant to Article IV that Indemnitee would not be permitted to be indemnified under applicable law. Nothing in this Section 3.2 shall limit the benefits of Section 3.1, Section 3.3 or any other Section hereunder.
Section 3.3 . The Company shall pay all Expenses reasonably incurred by, or in the case of retainers to be incurred by, or on behalf of Indemnitee (or, if applicable, reimburse Indemnitee for any and all Expenses reasonably incurred by Indemnitee and previously paid by Indemnitee) in connection with any Claim or Proceeding (including any amount actually paid in settlement of such Claim or Proceeding), whether brought by the Company or otherwise, in advance of any determination respecting entitlement to indemnification pursuant to Article IV hereof (and shall continue to pay such Expenses after such determination and until it shall ultimately be determined (in a final adjudication by a court from which there is no further right of appeal or in a final adjudication of an arbitration pursuant to Section 5.1 if Indemnitee elects to seek such arbitration) that Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified by the Company against such Expenses) within 10 days after the receipt by the Company of a written request from Indemnitee requesting such payment or payments from time to time, whether prior to or after final disposition of such Proceeding. Any such payment by the Company is referred to in this Agreement as an "Expense Advance." Any dispute as to the reasonableness of the incurrence of any Expense shall not delay an Expense Advance by the Company, and the Company agrees that any such dispute shall be resolved only upon the disposition or conclusion of the underlying Claim or Proceeding against Indemnitee. Indemnitee hereby undertakes and agrees that Indemnitee will reimburse and repay the Company without interest for any Expense Advances to the extent that it shall ultimately be determined (in a final adjudication by a court from which there is no further right of appeal or in a final adjudication of an arbitration pursuant to Section 5.1 if Indemnitee elects to seek such arbitration) that Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified by the Company against such Expenses. Indemnitee shall not be required to provide collateral or otherwise secure the undertaking and agreement described in the prior sentence. The Company shall make all advances pursuant to this Section 3.3 without regard to the financial ability of Indemnitee to make repayment and without regard to the prospect of whether Indemnitee may ultimately be found to be entitled to indemnification under the provisions of this Agreement.
Advancement of Expenses
Section 3.4 . Subject to any limitations of applicable law, the Company shall indemnify Indemnitee against any and all costs and expenses (of the types described in the definition of Expenses in Article I) and, if requested by Indemnitee, shall (within 10 days of that request) advance those costs and expenses to Indemnitee, that are incurred by Indemnitee in connection with any claim asserted against, or action brought by, Indemnitee for (i) indemnification or an Expense Advance by the Company under this Agreement or any other agreement or provision of the Company's articles of incorporation or bylaws now or hereafter in effect relating to any Claim or Proceeding, (ii) recovery under any
Indemnification for Additional Expenses
 
directors' and officers' liability insurance policies maintained by the Company, or (iii) enforcement of, or claims for breaches of, any provision of this Agreement, in each of the foregoing situations regardless of whether Indemnitee ultimately is determined to be entitled to that indemnification, expense payment (whether as an advance or reimbursement), insurance recovery, enforcement, or damage claim, as the case may be and regardless of whether the nature of the proceeding with respect to such matters is judicial, by arbitration, or otherwise.
Section 3.5 . If Indemnitee is entitled under any provision of this Agreement to indemnification by the Company for some or a portion of the Expenses, judgments, fines, penalties (including excise or similar taxes), and amounts paid in settlement of a Claim or Proceeding but not, however, for all of the amount thereof, the Company shall nevertheless indemnify Indemnitee for the portion thereof to which Indemnitee is entitled. Moreover, notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, to the extent that Indemnitee has been successful on the merits or otherwise in defense of any or all Claims or Proceedings, or in defense of any issue or matter therein, including dismissal without prejudice, Indemnitee shall be indemnified against all Expenses incurred in connection therewith.
Partial Indemnity
Section 4.1 . To obtain indemnification under this Agreement, Indemnitee shall submit to the Company a written request for indemnification containing a brief description of any matter for which indemnification is then sought under this Agreement. The request shall be given in accordance with the notice provisions of Section 7.11 hereof. The Secretary or an Assistant Secretary of the Company shall, promptly upon receipt of such a request for indemnification, advise the Board in writing that Indemnitee has requested indemnification. In addition, Indemnitee shall provide the Company, following the Company's request, with such documentation and information as is reasonably available to Indemnitee and that the Company may reasonably require to determine whether and to what extent Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification.
Request by Indemnitee
Section 4.2 . Upon written request by Indemnitee for indemnification pursuant to the first sentence of Section 4.1 hereof, a determination, if required by applicable law, with respect to whether Indemnitee is permitted under applicable law to be indemnified shall be made in accordance with the terms of Section 4.5, in the specific case as follows:
Determination of Request
(a) If a Potential Change in Control or a Change in Control shall have occurred, by Independent Counsel (selected in accordance with Section 4.3) in a written opinion to the Board and Indemnitee, unless Indemnitee shall request that such determination be made by the Board, or a committee of the Board, or the shareholders of the Company, in which case by the person or persons specified in the Indemnitee's request and in the manner provided for in clause (i), (ii) or (iv) (as applicable) of paragraph (b) below; or
 
(b) If a Potential Change in Control or a Change in Control shall not have occurred, by the manner determined by the Board from among the following choices (subject, in the case of clause (iv), to the agreement of Indemnitee):
(i) by the Board by a majority vote of the Disinterested Directors, regardless of whether the Disinterested Directors constitute a quorum of the Board, or
(ii) by a majority vote of a committee of the Board, if (A) the committee is designated by a majority vote of the Disinterested Directors, regardless of whether the Disinterested Directors constitute a quorum of the Board, and (B) the committee consists solely of one or more Disinterested Directors, or
(iii) by Independent Counsel selected by the Board or a committee of the Board by a vote as set forth in clauses (i) or (ii) of this paragraph (b), or if such vote is not obtainable and such a committee cannot be established, by a majority vote of all directors of the Board (unless such a procedure is not permitted by applicable law), or
(iv) if Indemnitee and the Company agree, by the shareholders of the Company in a vote that excludes the shares held by directors who are not Disinterested Directors.
If it is so determined that Indemnitee is permitted to be indemnified under applicable law, payment to Indemnitee shall be made within 10 days after such determination. Nothing contained in this Agreement shall require that any determination be made under this Section 4.2 prior to the disposition or conclusion of a Claim or Proceeding against Indemnitee; provided, however, that Expense Advances shall continue to be made by the Company pursuant to, and to the extent required by, the provisions of Article III. Indemnitee shall cooperate with the person or persons making such determination with respect to Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification, including providing to such person upon reasonable advance request any documentation or information that is not privileged or otherwise protected from disclosure and that is reasonably available to Indemnitee and reasonably necessary to such determination. Any costs or expenses (including attorneys' fees and disbursements) incurred by Indemnitee in so cooperating with the person or persons making such determination shall be borne by the Company (irrespective of the determination as to Indemnitee's entitlement to indemnification), and the Company shall indemnify and hold harmless Indemnitee therefrom.
Section 4.3 . If a Potential Change in Control or a Change in Control shall not have occurred and the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel, the Company shall give written notice to Indemnitee, within 10 days after receipt by the Company of Indemnitee's request for indemnification, specifying the identity and address of the Independent Counsel selected in accordance with Section 4.2(b)(iii). If a Potential Change in Control or a Change in Control shall have occurred and the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel, the Independent Counsel shall be selected by Indemnitee (unless such a procedure is not permitted
Independent Counsel
 
by applicable law), and Indemnitee shall give written notice to the Company, within 10 days after submission of Indemnitee's request for indemnification, specifying the identity and address of the Independent Counsel so selected; , , that if such a procedure is not permitted by applicable law, then Indemnitee shall have the right to request that such selection be made by the Board by a vote as set forth in clause (i) of Section 4.2(b) or by a committee of the Board by a vote as set forth in clause (ii) of Section 4.2(b), and the selection shall be made in such manner, in which event the Company shall give written notice to Indemnitee, within 10 days after receipt of Indemnitee's request for the Board or a committee of the Board to make such selection, specifying the identity and address of the Independent Counsel so selected; and , , that if Indemnitee is permitted by applicable law to select the Independent Counsel but nevertheless shall request that such selection be made by the Board by a vote as set forth in clause (i) of Section 4.2(b) or by a committee of the Board by a vote as set forth in clause (ii) of Section 4.2(b), the selection shall be made in such manner, in which event the Company shall give written notice to Indemnitee, within 10 days after receipt of Indemnitee's request for the Board or a committee of the Board to make such selection, specifying the identity and address of the Independent Counsel so selected. In any such event, (i) such notice to Indemnitee or the Company, as the case may be, shall be accompanied by a written affirmation of the Independent Counsel so selected that it satisfies the requirements of the definition of "Independent Counsel" in Article I and that it agrees to serve in such capacity and (ii) Indemnitee or the Company, as the case may be, may, within seven days after such written notice of selection shall have been given, deliver to the Company or to Indemnitee, as the case may be, a written objection to such selection. Any objection to the selection of Independent Counsel pursuant to this Section 4.3 may be asserted only on the ground that the Independent Counsel so selected does not meet the requirements of the definition of "Independent Counsel" in Article I, and the objection shall set forth with particularity the factual basis of such assertion. If such written objection is timely made, the Independent Counsel so selected may not serve as Independent Counsel unless and until a court of competent jurisdiction (the "Court") has determined that such objection is without merit. In the event of a timely written objection to a choice of Independent Counsel, the party originally selecting the Independent Counsel shall have seven days to make an alternate selection of Independent Counsel and to give written notice of such selection to the other party, after which time such other party shall have five days to make a written objection to such alternate selection. If, within 30 days after submission of Indemnitee's request for indemnification pursuant to Section 4.1, no Independent Counsel shall have been selected and not objected to, either the Company or Indemnitee may petition the Court for resolution of any objection that shall have been made by the Company or Indemnitee to the other's selection of Independent Counsel and/or for the appointment as Independent Counsel of a person selected by the Court or by such other person as the Court shall designate, and the person with respect to whom an objection is so resolved or the person so appointed shall act as Independent Counsel under Section 4.2. The Company shall pay any and all fees and expenses reasonably incurred by such Independent Counsel in connection with acting pursuant to Section 4.2, and the Company shall pay all fees and expenses reasonably incurred incident to the procedures of this Section 4.3, regardless of the manner in which such Independent Counsel was selected or appointed. Upon the due commencement of any judicial proceeding or arbitration pursuant to Section 5.1, Independent Counsel shall be discharged and relieved of any further responsibility in such capacity (subject to the applicable standards of professional conduct then prevailing).
provided
however
provided
further
 
Section 4.4 . In the event of a Potential Change in Control or a Change in Control, the Company shall, upon written request by Indemnitee, create a trust for the benefit of Indemnitee (the "Trust") and from time to time upon written request of Indemnitee shall fund the Trust in an amount sufficient to satisfy any and all Expenses reasonably anticipated at the time of each such request to be incurred in connection with investigating, preparing for, and defending any Claim or Proceeding, and any and all judgments, fines, penalties (including excise or similar taxes), and settlement amounts of any and all Claims or Proceedings from time to time actually paid or claimed, reasonably anticipated, or proposed to be paid. The amount to be deposited in the Trust pursuant to the foregoing funding obligation shall be determined by the Independent Counsel (or other person(s) making the determination of whether Indemnitee is permitted to be indemnified by applicable law). The terms of the Trust shall provide that, upon a Change in Control, (i) the Trust shall not be revoked or the principal thereof invaded, without the written consent of Indemnitee; (ii) the trustee of the Trust shall advance, within 10 days of a request by Indemnitee, any and all Expenses reasonably incurred to Indemnitee, any required determination concerning the reasonableness of the Expenses to be made by the Independent Counsel (and Indemnitee hereby agrees to reimburse the Trust under the circumstances in which Indemnitee would be required to reimburse the Company for Expenses Advances under Section 3.3 of this Agreement); (iii) the Trust shall continue to be funded by the Company in accordance with the funding obligation set forth above; (iv) the trustee of the Trust shall promptly pay to Indemnitee all amounts for which Indemnitee shall be entitled to indemnification pursuant to this Agreement; and (v) all unexpended funds in the Trust shall revert to the Company upon a final determination by the Independent Counsel or a court of competent jurisdiction, as the case may be, that Indemnitee has been fully indemnified under the terms of this Agreement. The trustee of the Trust shall be chosen by Indemnitee and shall be an institution that is not affiliated with Indemnitee. Nothing in this Section 4.4 shall relieve the Company of any of its obligations under this Agreement.
Establishment of a Trust
Section 4.5 .
Presumptions and Effect of Certain Proceedings
(a) Indemnitee shall be presumed to be entitled to indemnification under this Agreement upon submission of a request for indemnification under Section 4.1, and the Company shall have the burden of proof in overcoming that presumption in reaching a determination contrary to that presumption. Such presumption shall be used by Independent Counsel (or other person or persons determining entitlement to indemnification) as a basis for a determination of entitlement to indemnification unless the presumption is overcome by the Company's providing information sufficient to overcome such presumption by clear and convincing evidence or unless the investigation, review and analysis of Independent Counsel (or such other person or persons) convinces Independent Counsel by clear and convincing evidence that the presumption should not apply.
(b) If the person or persons empowered or selected under Article IV of this Agreement to determine whether Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification shall not have made a determination within 60 days after receipt by the Company of the request by Indemnitee therefor, the determination of entitlement to indemnification shall be deemed to have been made and Indemnitee shall be entitled to such indemnification; provided, however, that such 60-day period may be extended for a reasonable time, not to exceed
 
an additional 30 days, if the person making the determination with respect to entitlement to indemnification in good faith requires such additional time for the obtaining or evaluating of documentation and/or information relating to such determination; and provided, further, that the 60-day limitation set forth in this Section 4.5(b) shall not apply and such period shall be extended as necessary (i) if within 30 days after receipt by the Company of the request for indemnification under Section 4.1 Indemnitee and the Company have agreed, and the Board has resolved to submit such determination to the shareholders of the Company pursuant to Section 4.2(b) for their consideration at an annual meeting of shareholders to be held within 90 days after such agreement and such determination is made thereat, or a special meeting of shareholders is called within 30 days after such receipt for the purpose of making such determination, such meeting is held for such purpose within 60 days after having been so called and such determination is made thereat, or (ii) if the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel pursuant to Section 4.2(a) of this Agreement, in which case the applicable period shall be as set forth in Section 5.1(c).
(c) The termination of any Proceeding or of any Claim, issue or matter by judgment, order, settlement (whether with or without court approval) or conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not (except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement) by itself adversely affect the rights of Indemnitee to indemnification or create a presumption that Indemnitee failed to meet any particular standard of conduct, that Indemnitee had any particular belief, or that a court has determined that indemnification is not permitted by applicable law. Indemnitee shall be deemed to have been found liable in respect of any Claim or Proceeding, issue or matter only after Indemnitee shall have been so adjudged by the Court after exhaustion of all appeals therefrom.
Section 5.1 . If (a) a determination is made pursuant to Article IV that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under this Agreement; (b) there has been any failure by the Company to make timely payment or advancement of any amounts due hereunder (including any Expense Advances); or (c) the determination of entitlement to indemnification is to be made by Independent Counsel pursuant to Section 4.2 and such determination shall not have been made and delivered in a written opinion within 90 days after the latest of (i) such Independent Counsel's being appointed, (ii) the overruling by the Court of objections to such counsel's selection, or (iii) expiration of all periods for the Company or Indemnitee to object to such counsel's selection, Indemnitee shall be entitled to commence an action seeking an adjudication in the Court of Indemnitee's entitlement to such indemnification or advancements due hereunder, including Expense Advances. Alternatively, Indemnitee, at Indemnitee's option, may seek an award in arbitration to be conducted by a single arbitrator pursuant to the commercial arbitration rules of the American Arbitration Association. Indemnitee shall commence such action seeking an adjudication or an award in arbitration within 180 days following the date on which Indemnitee first has the right to commence such action pursuant to this Section 5.1, or such right shall expire. The Company agrees not to oppose
Indemnitee Entitled to Adjudication in an Appropriate Court
 
Indemnitee's right to seek any such adjudication or award in arbitration and it shall continue to pay Expense Advances pursuant to Section 3.3 until it shall ultimately be determined (in a final adjudication by a court from which there is no further right of appeal or in a final adjudication of an arbitration pursuant to this Section 5.1 if Indemnitee elects to seek such arbitration) that Indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified by the Company against such Expenses.
Section 5.2 . If a determination shall have been made pursuant to Article IV that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification under this Agreement, any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Agreement shall be conducted in all respects as a de novo trial or arbitration on the merits, and Indemnitee shall not be prejudiced by reason of such initial adverse determination. In any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Agreement, Indemnitee shall be presumed to be entitled to indemnification or advancement of Expenses, as the case may be, under this Agreement and the Company shall have the burden of proof in overcoming such presumption and to show by clear and convincing evidence that Indemnitee is not entitled to indemnification or advancement of Expenses, as the case may be.
Adverse Determination Not to Affect any Judicial Proceeding
Section 5.3 . If a determination shall have been made or deemed to have been made pursuant to Article IV that Indemnitee is entitled to indemnification, the Company shall be irrevocably bound by such determination in any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Article V and shall be precluded from asserting that such determination has not been made or that the procedure by which such determination was made is not valid, binding and enforceable.
Company Bound by Determination Favorable to Indemnitee in any Judicial Proceeding or Arbitration
Section 5.4 . The Company shall be precluded from asserting in any judicial proceeding or arbitration commenced pursuant to this Article V that the procedures and presumptions of this Agreement are not valid, binding and enforceable and shall stipulate in any such court or before any such arbitrator that the Company is bound by all the provisions of this Agreement.
Company Bound by the Agreement
Section 6.1 . To the extent the indemnification provided for under any provision of this Agreement is determined (in the manner hereinabove provided) not to be permitted under applicable law, then in the event Indemnitee was, is, or becomes a party to or witness or other participant in, or is threatened to be made a party to or witness or other participant in, a Proceeding by reason of anything done or not done by Indemnitee in, or by reason of any event or occurrence related to (or arising in part out of), Indemnitee's Corporate Status, the Company, in lieu of indemnifying Indemnitee, shall contribute to the amount of any and all Expenses, judgments, fines, penalties (including excise or similar taxes), or amounts assessed against or incurred or paid by Indemnitee on account of such Proceeding and any and all amounts paid in settlement of that Proceeding (including all interest, assessments, and other charges paid or payable in connection with or in respect of such Expenses, judgments, fines, penalties (including excise or similar taxes), or amounts paid in settlement) for which such
Contribution Payment
 
indemnification is not permitted ("Contribution Amounts"), in such proportion as is appropriate to reflect the relative fault with respect to the subject matter of the Proceeding giving rise to the Contribution Amounts of Indemnitee, on the one hand, and of the Company and any and all other parties (including officers and directors of the Company other than Indemnitee) who may be at fault with respect to such matter (collectively, including the Company, the "Third Parties") on the other hand.
Section 6.2 . The relative fault of the Third Parties and Indemnitee shall be determined (i) by reference to the relative fault of Indemnitee as determined by the court or other governmental agency assessing the Contribution Amounts or (ii) to the extent such court or other governmental agency does not apportion relative fault, by the Independent Counsel (or such other party that makes a determination under Article IV) after giving effect to, among other things, the relative intent, knowledge, access to information, and opportunity to prevent or correct the subject matter of the Proceedings and other relevant equitable considerations of each party. The Company and Indemnitee agree that it would not be just and equitable if contribution pursuant to this Section 6.2 were determined by pro rata allocation or by any other method of allocation that does take account of the equitable considerations referred to in this Section 6.2.
Relative Fault
Section 7.1 . The rights of Indemnitee to receive indemnification and advancement of Expenses under this Agreement shall be in addition to, and shall not be deemed exclusive of, any other rights Indemnitee shall have under the TBCA or other applicable law, the articles of incorporation or bylaws of the Company, any other agreement, vote of shareholders or a resolution of directors, or otherwise. Accordingly, no amendment or alteration of the articles of incorporation or bylaws of the Company or any provision thereof shall adversely affect Indemnitee's rights hereunder. To the extent that there is a change in the TBCA or other applicable law (whether by statute or judicial decision) that allows greater indemnification by agreement than would be afforded currently under the Company's articles of incorporation or bylaws and this Agreement, it is the intent of the parties hereto that Indemnitee shall enjoy by virtue of this Agreement the greater benefit so afforded by such change. Any amendment, alteration or repeal of the TBCA that adversely affects any right of Indemnitee shall be prospective only and shall not limit or eliminate any such right with respect to any Proceeding involving any occurrence or alleged occurrence of any action or omission to act that took place before such amendment or repeal.
Non-Exclusivity
Section 7.2 .
Insurance and Subrogation
(a) To the extent that the Company maintains an insurance policy or policies providing liability insurance for directors, officers, employees, agents or fiduciaries of the Company or for individuals serving at the request of the Company as directors, officers, partners, members, venturers, proprietors, trustees, employees, agents, fiduciaries or similar functionaries of another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, sole proprietorship, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, Indemnitee shall be covered by such policy or policies as a named or
 
described insured in accordance with its or their terms to the maximum extent of the coverage available for any such director, officer, employee, agent or fiduciary under such policy or policies.
(b) In the event of any payment by the Company under this Agreement for which reimbursement is available under any insurance policy or policies obtained by the Company, the Company shall be subrogated to the extent of such payment to all of the rights of recovery of Indemnitee under such insurance policy or policies, who shall execute all papers required and take all action necessary to secure such rights, including execution of such documents as are necessary to enable the Company to bring suit to enforce such rights, provided that all Expenses relating to such action shall be borne by the Company.
(c) The Company shall not be liable under this Agreement to make any payment of amounts otherwise indemnifiable hereunder if and to the extent that Indemnitee has otherwise actually received such payment under the Company's articles of incorporation or bylaws or any insurance policy, contract, agreement or otherwise.
(d) The Company will advise the Board of any proposed material reduction in the coverage for Indemnitee to be provided by the Company's directors' and officers' liability insurance policy and will not effect such a reduction with respect to Indemnitee without the prior approval of at least 80% of the Independent Directors of the Company.
(e) If Indemnitee ceases to be a director of the Company for any reason, the Company shall procure a run-off directors' and officers' liability insurance policy with respect to claims arising from facts or events that occurred before the time Indemnitee ceased to be a director of the Company and covering Indemnitee, which policy, without any lapse in coverage, will provide coverage for a period of six years after the time Indemnitee ceased to be a director of the Company and will provide coverage (including amount and type of coverage and size of deductibles) that are substantially comparable to the Company's directors' and officers' liability insurance policy that was most protective of Indemnitee in the 12 months preceding the time Indemnitee ceased to be a director of the Company; provided, however, that:
(i) this obligation shall be suspended during the period immediately following the time Indemnitee ceases to be a director of the Company if and only so long as the Company has a directors' and officers' liability insurance policy in effect covering Indemnitee for such claims that, if it were a run-off policy, would meet or exceed the foregoing standards, but in any event this suspension period shall end when a Change in Control occurs; and
(ii) no later than the end of the suspension period provided in the preceding clause (i) (whether because of failure to have a policy meeting the foregoing standards or because a Change in Control occurs), the Company shall procure a run-off directors' and officers' liability insurance policy meeting the foregoing standards and lasting for the remainder of the six-year period.
 
(f) Notwithstanding the preceding clause (e) including the suspension provisions therein, if Indemnitee ceases to be a director of the Company in connection with a Change in Control or at or during the one-year period following the occurrence of a Change in Control, the Company shall procure a run-off directors' and officers' liability insurance policy covering Indemnitee and meeting the foregoing standards in clause (e) and lasting for a six-year period upon the Indemnitee's ceasing to be a director of the Company in such circumstances.
Section 7.3 . The parties hereto recognize that the Company may, but except as provided in Section 7.2(d), Section 7.2(e), and Section 7.2(f) is not required to, procure or maintain insurance or other similar arrangements, at its expense, to protect itself and any person, including Indemnitee, who is or was a director, officer, employee, agent or fiduciary of the Company or who is or was serving at the request of the Company as a director, officer, partner, member, venturer, proprietor, trustee, employee, agent, fiduciary or similar functionary of another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, sole proprietorship, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss asserted against or incurred by such person, in such a capacity or arising out of the person's status as such a person, whether or not the Company would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense or liability or loss.
Self Insurance of the Company; Other Arrangements
Except as provided in Section 7.2(d), Section 7.2(e) and Section 7.2(f), in considering the cost and availability of such insurance, the Company (through the exercise of the business judgment of its directors and officers) may, from time to time, purchase insurance that provides for certain (i) deductibles, (ii) limits on payments required to be made by the insurer, or (iii) coverage that may not be as comprehensive as that previously included in insurance purchased by the Company or its predecessors. The purchase of insurance with deductibles, limits on payments and coverage exclusions, even if in the best interest of the Company, may not be in the best interest of Indemnitee. As to the Company, purchasing insurance with deductibles, limits on payments and coverage exclusions is similar to the Company's practice of self-insurance in other areas. In order to protect Indemnitee who would otherwise be more fully or entirely covered under such policies, the Company shall, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, indemnify and hold Indemnitee harmless to the extent (i) of such deductibles, (ii) of amounts exceeding payments required to be made by an insurer, or (iii) of amounts that prior policies of directors' and officers' liability insurance held by the Company or its predecessors have provided for payment to Indemnitee, if by reason of anything done or not done by Indemnitee in, or by reason of any event or occurrence related to (or arising in part out of), Indemnitee's Corporate Status Indemnitee is made a party to or witness or other participant in, or is threatened to be made a party to or witness or other participant in, any Proceeding. The obligation of the Company in the preceding sentence shall be without regard to whether the Company would otherwise be required to indemnify such officer or director under the other provisions of this Agreement, or under any law, agreement, vote of shareholders or directors or other arrangement. Without limiting the generality of any provision of this Agreement, the procedures in Article IV hereof shall, to the extent applicable, be used for determining entitlement to indemnification under this Section 7.3.
 
Section 7.4 . The Company shall have no obligation to indemnify Indemnitee under this Agreement for amounts paid in settlement of a Proceeding or Claim without the Company's prior written consent. The Company shall not settle any Proceeding or Claim in any manner that would impose any fine, Expense, limitation or other obligation on Indemnitee, or disparage Indemnitee or contain an admission of wrongdoing by Indemnitee, without Indemnitee's prior written consent. Neither the Company nor Indemnitee shall unreasonably withhold their consent to any proposed settlement (it being agreed that Indemnitee's refusal to consent to a proposed settlement that would in any manner impose any fine, Expense, limitation or other obligation on Indemnitee, or disparage Indemnitee or contain an admission of wrongdoing by Indemnitee, would not be unreasonable).
Certain Settlement Provisions
Section 7.5 . This Agreement shall continue for so long as Indemnitee serves as a director of the Company or, at the request of the Company, as a director, officer, partner, member, venturer, proprietor, trustee, employee, agent, fiduciary or similar functionary of another foreign or domestic corporation, partnership, limited liability company, joint venture, sole proprietorship, trust, employee benefit plan or other enterprise, and thereafter shall survive until and terminate upon the later to occur of: (a) the expiration of 20 years after the latest date that Indemnitee shall have ceased to serve in any such capacity; (b) the final termination of all pending Proceedings in respect of which Indemnitee is granted rights of indemnification or advancement of Expenses hereunder and of any proceeding commenced by Indemnitee pursuant to Article IV relating thereto; or (c) the expiration of all statutes of limitation applicable to possible Claims or Proceedings arising out of Indemnitee's Corporate Status.
Duration of Agreement
Section 7.6 . Indemnitee shall promptly notify the Company in writing upon being served with any summons, citation, subpoena, complaint, indictment, information or other document or communication relating to any Proceeding or Claim for which Indemnitee may be entitled to indemnification or advancement of Expenses hereunder; provided, however, that any failure of Indemnitee to so notify the Company shall not adversely affect Indemnitee's rights under this Agreement except to the extent the Company shall have been materially prejudiced as a direct result of such failure. The Company shall promptly notify Indemnitee in writing as to the pendency of any Proceeding or Claim that may involve a claim against Indemnitee for which Indemnitee may be entitled to indemnification or advancement of Expenses hereunder.
Notice by Each Party
Section 7.7 . This Agreement may not be modified or amended except by a written instrument executed by or on behalf of each of the parties hereto.
Amendment
Section 7.8 . The observance of any term of this Agreement may be waived (either generally or in a particular instance and either retroactively or prospectively) by the party entitled to enforce such term only by a writing signed by the party against which such waiver is to be asserted. Unless otherwise expressly provided herein, no delay on the part of any party hereto in exercising any right, power or privilege hereunder shall operate as a waiver thereof, nor shall any waiver on the part of any party hereto of any right, power or privilege hereunder operate as a waiver of any other right, power or privilege hereunder nor shall any single or partial exercise of any right, power or privilege hereunder preclude any other or further exercise thereof or the exercise of any other right, power or privilege hereunder.
Waivers
 
Section 7.9 . This Agreement and the documents expressly referred to herein constitute the entire agreement between the parties hereto with respect to the matters covered hereby, and any other prior or contemporaneous oral or written understandings or agreements with respect to the matters covered hereby, including any prior indemnification agreements, are expressly superseded by this Agreement.
Entire Agreement
Section 7.10 . If any provision of this Agreement (including any provision within a single section, paragraph or sentence) or the application of such provision to any Person or circumstance, shall be judicially declared to be invalid, unenforceable or void, such decision will not have the effect of invalidating or voiding the remainder of this Agreement or affect the application of such provision to other Persons or circumstances, it being the intent and agreement of the parties that this Agreement shall be deemed amended by modifying such provision to the extent necessary to render it valid, legal and enforceable while preserving its intent, or if such modification is not possible, by substituting therefor another provision that is valid, legal and unenforceable and that achieves the same objective. Any such finding of invalidity or unenforceability shall not prevent the enforcement of such provision in any other jurisdiction to the maximum extent permitted by applicable law.
Severability
Section 7.11 . All notices and other communications hereunder shall be in writing and shall be deemed given upon (a) transmitter's confirmation of a receipt of a facsimile transmission if during normal business hours of the recipient, otherwise on the next business day, (b) confirmed delivery of a standard overnight courier or when delivered by hand or (c) the expiration of five business days after the date mailed by U.S. certified or registered mail (return receipt requested), postage prepaid, to the parties at the following addresses (or at such other addresses for a party as shall be specified by like notice):
Notices
If to the Company, to it at:
Southwest Airlines Co.
Attn: Corporate Secretary
By U.S. Mail:
P.O. Box 36611
Dallas, Texas 75235-1611
By Courier or Hand Delivery:
2702 Love Field Drive
Dallas, Texas 75235
By Facsimile:
(214) 792-5348
If to Indemnitee, to Indemnitee at:
[Indemnitee address]
 
or to such other address or to such other individuals as any party shall have last designated by notice to the other parties. All notices and other communications given to any party in accordance with the provisions of this Agreement shall be deemed to have been given when delivered or sent to the intended recipient thereof in accordance with and as provided in the provisions of this Section 7.11.
Section 7.12 . This Agreement shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of Texas without regard to the principles of conflict of laws.
Governing Law
Section 7.13 .
Certain Construction Rules
(a) The article and section headings contained in this Agreement are for reference purposes only and shall not affect in any way the meaning or interpretation of this Agreement. As used in this Agreement, unless otherwise provided to the contrary, (1) all references to days shall be deemed references to calendar days and (2) any reference to a "Section" or "Article" shall be deemed to refer to a section or article of this Agreement. The words "hereof," "herein" and "hereunder" and words of similar import referring to this Agreement refer to this Agreement as a whole and not to any particular provision of this Agreement. Whenever the words "include," "includes" or "including" are used in this Agreement, they shall be deemed to be followed by the words "without limitation." Unless otherwise specifically provided for herein, the term "or" shall not be deemed to be exclusive. Whenever the context may require, any pronoun used in this Agreement shall include the corresponding masculine, feminine or neuter forms, and the singular form of nouns, pronouns and verbs shall include the plural and vice versa.
(b) For purposes of this Agreement, references to "other enterprises" shall include employee benefit plans; references to "fines" shall include any excise taxes assessed on a person with respect to any employee benefit plan; references to "serving at the request of the Company" shall include any service as a director, officer, employee or agent of the Company that imposes duties on, or involves services by, such director, nominee, officer, employee or agent with respect to an employee benefit plan, its participants or beneficiaries; and a person who acted in good faith and in a manner the person reasonably believed to be in the interests of the participants and beneficiaries of an employee benefit plan shall be deemed to have acted in a manner "not opposed to the best interest of the Company" for purposes of this Agreement and the TBCA.
(c) This Agreement is the result of negotiations among and has been reviewed by each of the parties hereto and their respective counsel, if any; accordingly, this Agreement shall be deemed to be the product of all the parties hereto, and no ambiguity shall be construed in favor of or against any one of the parties hereto.
Section 7.14 . This Agreement may be executed in two or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed to be an original and all of which together shall be deemed to be one and the same instrument, notwithstanding that both parties are not signatories to the original or same counterpart.
Counterparts
 
Section 7.15 . The Company shall not be obligated pursuant to the terms of this Agreement:
Certain Persons Not Entitled to Indemnification
(a) To indemnify Indemnitee if (and to the extent that) a court or arbitration body having jurisdiction in the matter shall ultimately determine (in a final adjudication by a court from which there is no further right of appeal or in a final adjudication of an arbitration) that such indemnification is not lawful; or
(b) To indemnify Indemnitee for the payment to the Company of profits pursuant to Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act, or Expenses incurred by Indemnitee for Proceedings in connection with such payment under Section 16(b) of the Exchange Act.
Section 7.16
. WITHOUT LIMITING THE GENERALITY OF ANY OTHER PROVISION HEREUNDER, IT IS THE EXPRESS INTENT OF THIS AGREEMENT THAT INDEMNITEE BE INDEMNIFIED AND EXPENSES BE ADVANCED REGARDLESS OF INDEMNITEE'S ACTS OF NEGLIGENCE, GROSS NEGLIGENCE, INTENTIONAL OR WILLFUL MISCONDUCT OR THEORIES OF STRICT LIABILITY TO THE EXTENT THAT INDEMNIFICATION AND ADVANCEMENT OF EXPENSES IS ALLOWED PURSUANT TO THE TERMS OF THIS AGREEMENT AND UNDER APPLICABLE LAW.
INDEMNIFICATION FOR NEGLIGENCE, GROSS NEGLIGENCE, ETC
Section 7.17 . Both the Company and Indemnitee acknowledge that in certain instances, applicable law (including applicable federal law that may preempt or override applicable state law) or public policy may prohibit the Company from indemnifying the directors of the Company under this Agreement or otherwise. For example, the Company and Indemnitee acknowledge that the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission has taken the position that indemnification of directors, officers and controlling Persons of the Company for liabilities arising under federal securities laws is against public policy and, therefore, unenforceable. Indemnitee understands and acknowledges that the Company has undertaken or may be required in the future to undertake with the Securities and Exchange Commission to submit the question of indemnification to a court in certain circumstances for a determination of the Company's right under public policy to indemnify Indemnitee. In addition, the Company and Indemnitee acknowledge that federal law prohibits indemnifications for certain violations of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended.
Mutual Acknowledgments
Section 7.18 . The Company agrees that its execution of this Agreement shall constitute a stipulation by which it shall be irrevocably bound in any court or arbitration in which a proceeding by Indemnitee for enforcement of Indemnitee's rights hereunder shall have been commenced, continued or appealed, that its obligations set forth in this Agreement are unique and special, and that failure of the Company to comply with the provisions of this Agreement will cause irreparable and irremediable injury to Indemnitee, for which a remedy at law will be inadequate. As a result, in addition to any other right or remedy Indemnitee may have at law or in equity with respect to breach of this Agreement, Indemnitee shall be entitled to injunctive or mandatory relief directing specific performance by the Company of its obligations under this Agreement. The Company agrees not to seek, and agrees to waive any requirement for the securing or posting of, a bond in connection with Indemnitee's seeking or obtaining such relief.
Enforcement
 
Section 7.19 . All of the terms and provisions of this Agreement shall be binding upon, shall inure to the benefit of and shall be enforceable by the parties hereto and their respective successors, assigns, heirs, executors, administrators, legal representatives.
Successors and Assigns
Section 7.20 . No legal action shall be brought and no cause of action shall be asserted by or on behalf of the Company or any affiliate of the Company against Indemnitee or Indemnitee's spouse, heirs, executors, or personal or legal representatives after the expiration of two years from the date of accrual of that cause of action, and any claim or cause of action of the Company or its affiliate shall be extinguished and deemed released unless asserted by the timely filing of a legal action within that two-year period; provided, however, that for any claim based on Indemnitee's breach of fiduciary duties to the Company or its shareholders, the period set forth in the preceding sentence shall be three years instead of two years; and provided, further, that, if any shorter period of limitations is otherwise applicable to any such cause of action, the shorter period shall govern.
Period of Limitations
 
IN WITNESS WHEREOF, this Agreement has been duly executed and delivered to be effective as of the date first above written.
 
 


