FILE:LUV/LUV-8K-20101118171734.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On November 18, 2010, the Board of Directors (the "Board") of Southwest Airlines Co. (the "Company") appointed Thomas M. Nealon as a member of the Board, effective December 1, 2010. Mr. Nealon is Group Executive Vice President of J.C. Penney Company, Inc.
Members of Southwest's Board of Directors, including Mr. Nealon, currently receive the following compensation:
(i) an annual retainer fee for membership on the Board of $25,000 (which will be pro rated for Mr. Nealon for the May 2010-May 2011 service period);
(ii) $1,500 for each meeting of the Board attended in person or by phone;
(iii) while serving on the Board, free travel on Southwest Airlines for the Director and the Director's spouse, children, and spouses of children, as well as 20 passes (or an equivalent privilege) annually that may be used for free travel on Southwest Airlines on an unrestricted basis (for charitable purposes);
e.g.,
(iv) subsequent to Board service, (a) if the Director has served at least ten years, lifetime free travel on Southwest Airlines for the Director and the Director's spouse; (b) if the Director has served less than ten years, free travel on Southwest Airlines for the Director and the Director's spouse equal to the number of years served ("partial benefits"); and (c) if the Director is deceased, free travel on Southwest Airlines for the Director's spouse for the lifetime of the spouse, if the Director has served as least ten years, or for the number of years remaining (if any) in the Director's partial benefits, if the Director has served less than ten years;
(v) reimbursement for taxes on flight benefits;
(vi) eligibility to receive equity grants pursuant to the Southwest Airlines Co. Amended and Restated 2007 Equity Incentive Plan (for 2010, prior to Mr. Nealon's appointment to the Board, Board members received restricted stock units with a value of approximately $45,000); and
(vii) eligibility for a retirement payment under the Southwest Airlines Co. Severance Plan for Directors (which provides for a cash payment of $35,000 for non-employee Directors who have served at least five years as of the date of retirement and $75,000 for non-employee Directors who have served at least ten years as of the date of retirement).
Mr. Nealon has not yet been appointed to any Board committees, has no relationships requiring disclosure under Item 404 of Regulation S-K, and is not a party to any arrangement or understanding with any other person pursuant to which he was selected as a director.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 


