FILE:LUV/LUV-8K-20121018121238.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the
filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act
(17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17
CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the
Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the
Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 2.02                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On October 18, 2012 the Registrant issued a press release announcing its financial results for the third quarter 2012.  The press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02.
The information furnished in this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits:
99.1 Registrants Third Quarter 2012 Earnings Release.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Ex 99.1 
 
 
 
 
 
 
DALLAS, TEXAS  October 18, 2012  Southwest Airlines Co. (NYSE:LUV) (the Company) today reported its third quarter 2012 results.  Third quarter 2012 net income was $16 million, or
$.02 per diluted share, which included $81 million (net) of unfavorable special items.  This compared to a net loss of $140 million, or $.18 loss per diluted share, in third quarter 2011, which included unfavorable special items totaling $262 million (net).  Excluding special items, third quarter 2012 net income was $97 million, or $.13 per diluted share, compared to $122 million, or $.15 per diluted share, in third quarter 2011.  This exceeded the First Call consensus estimate of $.12 per diluted share.  Operating income for third quarter 2012 was $51 million, compared to $225 million in third quarter 2011.  Excluding special items, operating income was $208 million for third quarter 2012, compared to $285 million for the same period last year.  Additional information regarding special items is included in this release and in the accompanying reconciliation tables.
Gary C. Kelly, Chairman of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer, stated, Our third quarter 2012 net income was $97 million, and operating income was $208 million, each excluding special items.  Our third quarter 2012 passenger revenues, unit revenues, and load factor were all third-quarter records and meaningful accomplishments; however, we need sustained revenue momentum to achieve our return on invested capital target. And, that is a priority.  While in line with the domestic industry, our third quarter 2012 year-over-year unit revenue growth was more sluggish than planned due to weaker demand, particularly in September. While the economy remains a significant concern, we are encouraged, thus far, by Octobers bookings and revenue trends.  Thus far in October 2012, passenger unit revenues are running ahead of the comparable year ago period by approximately four percent.  For next year, we are excited about planned initiatives including the first phase of our new revenue management system.
 We have significant transformation work underway on five key strategic initiatives, and I am proud of our People and their results. The integration of AirTran into Southwest is our top priority and much progress was made in third quarter.  We have converted nine AirTran aircraft to the Southwest livery.  AirTrans airport facilities at Seattle and Des Moines have been converted to Southwest; Key West, Florida will be converted next month; and Branson, Missouri is scheduled for March 2013.  Our April 2013 schedule, to be published next week, will reflect four more AirTran city conversions at Charlotte, North Carolina; Flint, Michigan; Portland, Maine; and Rochester, New York.  During third quarter 2012, AirTran ceased operations at six cities, while Southwest launched new service to Dayton, Akron-Canton, and Ronald Reagan Washington National Airport, which began the integration of AirTran in those cities.  We remain on track to launch connection of the two airlines networks early next year and significantly optimize the combined networks compared to third quarter 2012.  Seniority list integrations for seven of the eight impacted unions have been resolved.  We produced approximately $110 million in pre-tax synergies in the first nine months of 2012, and we plan for $400 million in pre-tax synergies in 2013 (excluding acquisition and integration expenses). I am very pleased with the AirTran integration results, thus far, and anticipate significant financial performance improvement from next years planned actions.
 Our operating costs grew in the third quarter, but much of the growth was investment related. In particular, we are in the early stages of restructuring and retrofitting our fleet to improve our unit costs and long-term financial performance.  This fleet modernization effort is one of our strategic initiatives, and it, too, is expected to drive significant financial benefits beginning in 2013. We have retrofitted 147 Southwest 737-700s with our updated cabin interior and plan to complete all 372 -700 retrofits in first half 2013.  AirTrans -700s are receiving the updated interior as the aircraft are converted to the Southwest livery.  We have added 26 737-800s to our fleet, with eight more deliveries scheduled for this year.   Our near-term plans call for keeping the fleet relatively flat taking into account our aircraft deliveries, 737 Classic retirements, and leases/subleases to Delta.  Overall, we anticipate our fleet modernization efforts will significantly benefit pre-tax results in excess of $700 million, annually, once fully implemented in 2015.
 
Third quarter 2012 economic fuel costs were $3.16 per gallon, which was in line with third quarter 2011. Crude oil and jet fuel prices have soared over the last several months, and our fourth quarter 2012 economic fuel costs are expected to hit an all-time high $3.45 per gallon (based on market prices as of October 15, 2012).  This is disappointing, especially given the weak economy, and we will need to more aggressively control costs in the next year.
Our liquidity and balance sheet remain strong.  As of yesterday, total cash on hand and short-term investments were $3.5 billion, in addition to a fully available unsecured revolving credit line of $800 million.  Operating cash flow for the first nine months of this year was approximately $1.8 billion, resulting in strong free cash flow* of nearly $900 million.  During that time, we continued to return cash to our Shareholders with the repurchase of approximately 37 million shares of common stock for approximately $325 million and dividends totaling $22 million.  We also repaid $517 million of debt and capital lease obligations without refinancing.  Our debt levels are modest with debt-to-capital leverage near 40 percent, including off balance sheet aircraft leases.  We remain committed to our goals of enhancing Shareholder value, preserving our financial strength, and achieving our 15 percent pre-tax return on invested capital.
Financial Results and Outlook
AirTran Airways, Inc. became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company on May 2, 2011. Results discussed in this release and provided in the accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Comparative Consolidated Operating Statistics include the results of operations and cash flows for AirTran beginning May 2, 2011, including the impact of purchase accounting.  Year-to-date 2011 results do not include AirTrans results prior to the acquisition date.  However, the Company believes the analysis of specified financial results on a combined basis provides more meaningful year-over-year comparability.  Year-to-date 2011 financial information presented on a combined basis is the sum of the historical financial results of the Company and AirTran for periods prior to the acquisition date, but includes the impact of purchase accounting beginning May 2, 2011.  Supplemental financial information presented on a combined basis and the accompanying reconciliations are included in this release.
The Companys total operating revenues in third quarter 2012 of $4.3 billion were comparable to third quarter 2011.  Operating unit revenues increased 0.6 percent from third quarter 2011.  Based on traffic and revenue trends thus far, the Company currently expects a solid year-over-year increase in operating unit revenues in fourth quarter 2012.
Total third quarter 2012 operating expenses were $4.3 billion, compared to $4.1 billion in
third quarter 2011.  Excluding special items in both periods, third quarter 2012 operating expenses increased 1.9 percent from third quarter 2011.
Third quarter 2012 economic fuel costs were $3.16 per gallon, including $.03 per gallon in unfavorable cash settlements for fuel derivative contracts, compared to $3.18 per gallon in third quarter 2011, including $.02 per gallon in unfavorable cash settlements.   Based on market prices as of October 15, 2012, the Company expects fourth quarter 2012 economic fuel costs to be approximately $3.45
per gallon, including $.09 per gallon in unfavorable cash settlements for fuel derivative contracts.
Fourth quarter 2012 premium costs, recorded in Other (gains) losses, are currently estimated to be approximately $3 million, compared to premium costs of $14 million in fourth quarter 2011 and
$36 million in fourth quarter 2010. As of October 15, 2012, the fair market value of the Companys hedge portfolio through 2016 was a net asset of approximately $196 million, compared to a net asset of approximately $133 million at September 30, 2012, and a net liability of $140 million at June 30, 2012.  Additional information regarding the Companys fuel derivative contracts is included in the accompanying tables.
Excluding fuel, profitsharing, and special items in both periods, third quarter 2012 unit costs increased 6.2 percent from third quarter 2011. Based on current cost trends, the Company expects a similar year-over-year increase in its fourth quarter 2012 unit costs, excluding fuel, profitsharing and special items in both periods.  Third quarter 2012 profitsharing expense was $29 million, compared to $36 million in third quarter last year.
Operating income for third quarter 2012 was $51 million, compared to $225 million in
third quarter 2011.  Excluding special items, operating income was $208 million for third quarter 2012, compared to $285 million in third quarter 2011.  The Company incurred $145 million in special charges (before taxes) during third quarter 2012 primarily associated with the Boeing 717 lease/sublease agreement with Delta Air Lines, Inc. and Boeing Capital Corp.  Cumulative costs associated with the acquisition and integration of AirTran, as of September 30, 2012, totaled $310 million (before taxes).  The Company expects total acquisition and integration costs will be approximately $550 million.
Other expenses for third quarter 2012 were $18 million, compared to $451 million in third quarter 2011.  This $433 million decrease primarily resulted from $10 million in other gains recognized in third quarter 2012, compared to $405 million in other losses recognized in third quarter 2011.  In both periods, these gains and losses primarily resulted from unrealized mark to market gains/losses associated with a portion of the Companys fuel hedging portfolio, which are special items.  Excluding these special items, other losses were $18 million in third quarter 2012, compared to $36 million in third quarter 2011, primarily attributable to the premium costs associated with the Companys fuel derivative contracts.  Net interest expense declined to $28 million in third quarter 2012, compared to $46 million in third quarter 2011, primarily as a result of the Companys repayment of its $400 million notes in December 2011 and the redemption of its $385 million notes in March 2012.
Total operating revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 increased
11.8 percent year-over-year to $12.9 billion, while total operating expenses increased 12.5 percent year-over-year to $12.4 billion, resulting in operating income in the nine months ended September 30, 2012 of $532 million, versus $546 million for the same period last year.  Excluding special items, operating income was $702 million for the nine months ended September 30, 2012, compared to
$672 million for the same period last year.  Excluding special items and compared to combined results for the same period last year, total operating revenues for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 increased 3.4 percent, while total operating expenses increased 3.3 percent, resulting in a 5.2 percent increase in operating income for the nine months ended September 30, 2012. 
Net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 was $343 million, or $.45
per diluted share, compared to $26 million, or $.03 per diluted share, for the same period last year.  Excluding special items, net income for the nine months ended September 30, 2012 was
$352 million, or $.46 per diluted share, compared to $263 million, or $.34 per diluted share, for the same period last year. 
The Companys return on invested capital (before taxes and excluding special items) was approximately seven percent for the twelve months ended September 30, 2012.  Additional information regarding pre-tax return on invested capital is included in the accompanying reconciliation tables. 
Awards and Recognitions
During third quarter 2012, Southwest Airlines was named to the 2012 Customer Service Hall of Fame by MSN Money.  Southwest also was honored for various efforts to be an employer of choice such as being recently named to the 2012 list of "Best Adoption Workplaces" by The Dave Thomas Foundation for Adoption and also being recognized by the Learning Spotlight Award by the Elliot Maises Learning 2012 Consortium for its commitment to employee training and development programs.  Southwest also was recognized as one of the Best Companies for Diversity Practices by Hispanic Business for diversity recruitment, retention, promotion, and supplier diversity.
 
 
 
/more
 
 
 
Conference call
Southwest will discuss its third quarter 2012 results on a conference call at 12:30 p.m. Eastern Time today.  A live broadcast of the conference call will also be available at
http://southwest.investorroom.com.
*See Note Regarding use of Non-GAAP financial measures
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  Specific forward-looking statements include without limitation statements related to (i) the Companys financial targets and outlook and projected results of operations; (ii) the Companys plans with respect to its acquisition of AirTran and related financial and operational goals and expectations, including without limitation anticipated integration timeframes and expected benefits and costs associated with the acquisition; (iii) the Companys fleet plans, including its fleet modernization plans, and related financial goals and expectations; and (iv) the Companys other strategic initiatives and related financial and operational goals and expectations. These forward-looking statements are based on the Company's current intent, expectations, and projections and are not guarantees of future performance.  These statements involve risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors that are difficult to predict and that could cause actual results to vary materially from those expressed in or indicated by them.  Factors include, among others, (i) the impact of the economy on demand for the Companys services and the impact of fuel prices, economic conditions, and actions of competitors on the Companys business decisions, plans, and strategies; (ii) the Companys ability to effectively integrate AirTran and realize the expected synergies and other benefits from the acquisition; (iii) the Companys ability to timely and effectively implement, transition, and maintain the necessary information technology systems and infrastructure to support its operations and initiatives; (iv) the Companys ability to timely and effectively prioritize its strategic initiatives and related expenditures; (v) changes in fuel prices, the impact of hedge accounting, and any changes to the Companys fuel hedging strategies and positions; (vi) the Companys dependence on third parties with respect to certain of its initiatives, in particular its fleet modernization plans; and (vii) other factors, as described in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the detailed factors discussed under the heading "Risk Factors" in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011.
 
/more 
 
 
 
/more 
 
 
 
 
/more 
 
 
 
 
/more
 
 
 
 
/more 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
/more 
 
 
 
 
/more 
 
 
 
 
/more 
 
 
 
 
/more
 
 
 
 
/more 
 
 
 
 
/more 
 
 
 
 
/more 
 
 
 
 
/more 
 
 
 
 
/more 
 
 
 
NOTE REGARDING USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
 
The Companys consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These GAAP financial statements include (i) unrealized non-cash adjustments and reclassifications, which can be significant, as a result of accounting requirements and elections made under accounting pronouncements relating to derivative instruments and hedging and (ii) other charges the Company believes are not indicative of its ongoing operational performance.
 
As a result, the Company also provides financial information in this release that was not prepared in accordance with GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to the information prepared in accordance with GAAP. The Company provides supplemental non-GAAP financial information, including results that it refers to as economic, which the Companys management utilizes to evaluate its ongoing financial performance and the Company believes provides greater transparency to investors as supplemental information to its GAAP results. The Companys economic financial results differ from GAAP results in that they only include the actual cash settlements from fuel hedge contracts--all reflected within Fuel and oil expense in the period of settlement. Thus, Fuel and oil expense on an economic basis reflects the Companys actual net cash outlays for fuel during the applicable period, inclusive of settled fuel derivative contracts. Any net premium costs paid related to option contracts are reflected as a component of Other (gains) losses, net, for both GAAP and non-GAAP (including economic) purposes in the period of contract settlement. These economic results provide a better measure of the impact of the Companys fuel hedges on its operating performance and liquidity since they exclude the unrealized, non-cash adjustments and reclassifications that are recorded in GAAP results in accordance with accounting guidance relating to derivative instruments, and they reflect all cash settlements related to fuel derivative contracts within Fuel and oil expense. This enables the Companys management, as well as investors, to consistently assess the Companys operating performance on a year-over-year or quarter-over-quarter basis after considering all efforts in place to manage fuel expense. However, because these measures are not determined in accordance with GAAP, such measures are susceptible to varying calculations and not all companies calculate the measures in the same manner. As a result, the aforementioned measures, as presented, may not be directly comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
 
Further information on (i) the Companys fuel hedging program, (ii) the requirements and accounting associated with accounting for derivative instruments, and (iii) the causes of hedge ineffectiveness and/or mark-to-market gains or losses from derivative instruments is included in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, as well as subsequent quarterly filings.
 
In addition to its economic financial measures, as defined above, the Company has also provided other non-GAAP financial measures, including results that it refers to as excluding special items, as a result of items that the Company believes are not indicative of its ongoing operations.  These include expenses associated with the Companys acquisition and integration of AirTran.  The Company believes that evaluation of its financial performance can be enhanced by a presentation of results that exclude the impact of these items in order to evaluate the results on a comparative basis with results in prior periods that do not include such items and as a basis for evaluating operating results in future periods.  As a result of the Companys acquisition of AirTran, which closed on May 2, 2011, the Company has incurred and expects to continue to incur substantial charges associated with integration of the two companies.  While the Company cannot predict the exact timing or amounts of such charges, it does expect to treat the charges as special items in its future presentation of non-GAAP results.
 
The Company has also provided other supplemental non-GAAP financial information on a combined basis.  This supplemental non-GAAP financial information on a combined basis includes specified combined financial results of the Company and AirTran for periods prior to May 2, 2011, as if the acquisition had occurred prior to the beginning of the applicable reporting period, but excludes any impact of purchase accounting prior to May 2, 2011.  AirTrans historical financial information included in the combined presentation has been conformed to the Companys financial statement classification where appropriate.  The Company believes that evaluation of its financial performance can be enhanced by a presentation of combined results in order to evaluate its prior, current or future period results on a more meaningful, consistent year-over-year basis.
 
The Company has also provided free cash flow, which is a non-GAAP financial measure.  The Company believes free cash flow is a meaningful measure because it demonstrates the Companys ability to service its debt, pay dividends and make investments to enhance shareholder value.  Although free cash flow is commonly used as a measure of liquidity, definitions of free cash flow may differ; therefore, the Company is providing an explanation of its calculation for free cash flow.  For the nine months ended September 30, 2012, the Company generated nearly $900 million in free cash flow, calculated as operating cash flows of approximately $1.8 billion less capital expenditures of $949 million.
 
/more 
 
 


