FILE:LUV/LUV-8K-20120419111340.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the
filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
[  ]           Written communications pursuant to Rule 425 under the Securities Act
(17 CFR 230.425)
[  ]           Soliciting material pursuant to Rule 14a-12 under the Exchange Act (17
CFR 240.14a-12)
[  ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 14d-2(b) under the
Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.14d-2(b))
[  ]           Pre-commencement communications pursuant to Rule 13e-4(c) under the
Exchange Act (17 CFR 240.13e-4(c))
 
 
 
Item 2.02                      Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On April 19, 2012 the Registrant issued a press release announcing its financial results for the first quarter 2012.  The press release is furnished herewith as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.02.
The information furnished in this Item 2.02 shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or otherwise subject to the liabilities of that section, nor shall such information be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, regardless of any general incorporation language in such filing, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference in such filing.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits:
99.1 Registrants First Quarter 2012 Earnings Release.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

Ex. 99.1
 
 
 
DALLAS, TEXAS  April 19, 2012  Southwest Airlines Co. (NYSE:LUV) (the Company) today reported its first quarter 2012 results.  First quarter 2012 net income was $98 million, or $.13 per diluted share, which included $116 million (net) of favorable special items.  This compared to net income of $5 million, or $.01 per diluted share, in first quarter 2011, which included unfavorable special items totaling $15 million (net).  Excluding special items, first quarter 2012 net loss was $18 million, or $.02 loss per diluted share, compared to net income of $20 million, or $.03 per diluted share, in first quarter 2011. This compared favorably to Thomsons First Call mean estimate of $.05 loss per diluted share.  Operating income for first quarter 2012 was $22 million, compared to $114 million in first quarter 2011.  Excluding special items, operating income was $10 million for first quarter 2012, compared to $110 million for the same period last year.  Additional information regarding special items is included in this release and in the accompanying reconciliation tables.
Gary C. Kelly, Chairman of the Board, President, and Chief Executive Officer, stated, Despite a modest loss, excluding special items, our first quarter results were notable, with outstanding revenue production and, except for jet fuel, better-than-expected operating costs.  Record first quarter revenue results were produced with strong revenue management and network optimization, along with benefits from the AirTran acquisition and All-New Rapid Rewards. First quarter 2012 passenger revenues, on a unit basis, increased five percent compared to first quarter last year, representing a 15 percent improvement over two years, and over 30 percent improvement since first quarter 2009 (as compared to combined results, as defined below).  Traffic and booking trends, thus far in April, are solid.
The decline in operating income was driven by a $478 million increase in our first quarter economic fuel costs, compared to first quarter last year.  Energy price increases continue to pressure costs, which only serve to reinforce our commitment to eliminate waste and maximize efficiency throughout our Company.
Financial Results and Outlook
AirTran Airways, Inc. became a wholly-owned subsidiary of the Company on May 2, 2011. Results discussed in this release and provided in the accompanying unaudited Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements and Comparative Consolidated Operating Statistics include the results of operations and cash flows for AirTran beginning May 2, 2011, including the impact of purchase accounting.  Periods presented prior to the acquisition date do not include AirTrans results.  However, the Company believes the analysis of specified financial results on a combined basis provides more meaningful year-over-year comparability.  Financial information presented on a combined basis is the sum of the historical financial results of the Company and AirTran for periods prior to the acquisition date, but includes the impact of purchase accounting beginning May 2, 2011.  Supplemental financial information presented on a combined basis and the accompanying reconciliations are included in this release.
The Companys total operating revenues in first quarter 2012 increased 28.6 percent to $4.0 billion, compared to $3.1 billion in first quarter 2011, and increased 5.9 percent year-over-year compared to $3.8 billion, on a combined basis.  Operating unit revenues increased 4.6 percent from first quarter 2011, on a combined basis.
 Total first quarter 2012 operating expenses were $4.0 billion, compared to $3.0 billion in first quarter 2011, and compared to $3.7 billion in first quarter last year on a combined basis.  Excluding special items in both periods, first quarter 2012 unit costs increased 6.7 percent from first quarter 2011 combined unit costs, largely due to a 16.6 percent year-over-year increase in economic fuel costs per gallon.   First quarter 2012 economic fuel costs of $3.44 per gallon included $0.12 per gallon in unfavorable cash settlements for fuel derivative contracts; however, fuel derivative contract premium costs decreased $25 million year-over-year, as described below in the discussion of other income.   Based on market prices as of April 16, the Company expects second quarter 2012 economic fuel costs, including fuel taxes, to be in the $3.40 to $3.45 per gallon range, with minimal impact from cash settlements for fuel derivative contracts.  Second quarter 2012 premium costs, recorded in other gains/losses, are currently estimated to be approximately $12 million, compared to premium costs of $26 million in second quarter 2011.
th
As of March 31, 2012, the fair market value of the Companys hedge portfolio was a net asset of $184 million, compared to a $44 million net liability at December 31, 2011.  Additional information regarding the Companys fuel derivative contracts is included in the accompanying tables.
Excluding fuel and special items in both periods, first quarter 2012 unit costs increased two percent from first quarter 2011s combined 7.83 cents.  Based on current cost trends, the Company expects another year-over-year increase in its second quarter 2012 unit costs, compared to second quarter 2011s combined unit costs, excluding fuel and special items in both periods.
Operating income for first quarter 2012 was $22 million, compared to $114 million in first quarter 2011.  Excluding special items in all periods, operating income was $10 million for first quarter 2012, compared to $110 million in first quarter 2011, and compared to $86 million in first quarter last year, on a combined basis.
Other income for first quarter 2012 was $137 million compared to $96 million of other expenses in first quarter 2011.  This $233 million swing primarily resulted from $170 million in other gains recognized in first quarter 2012, compared to $59 million in other losses recognized in first quarter 2011.  In both periods, these gains and losses primarily resulted from unrealized gains/losses associated with a portion of the Companys fuel hedging portfolio.  Excluding these special items, other losses were primarily attributable to the premium costs associated with the Companys fuel derivative contracts.  First quarter 2012 premium costs were $6 million, compared to $31 million in first quarter 2011.
The Companys return on invested capital (before taxes and excluding special items) was approximately six percent for the twelve months ended March 31, 2012.  Additional information regarding pre-tax return on invested capital is included in the accompanying reconciliation tables. 
AirTran Acquisition
Kelly continued, First quarter marked another key milestone in the integration of AirTran with the approval by the Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) of our Single Operating Certificate (SOC).  While we continue the process of welcoming AirTran Employees to the Southwest Family, we have now begun converting AirTran 737 aircraft to the Southwest paint and interior configuration.  We will begin transitioning AirTran airport facilities to Southwest later this year, beginning with Seattle and Des Moines.
In February, we were thrilled to introduce Southwests legendary low fares and outstanding Customer Service to Atlanta, Georgia.  We initiated service to Southwests 73 city with 15 daily flights to five nonstop destinations.  By August 2012, we will grow Southwests Atlanta service to 26 flights and eleven nonstop destinations, with AirTran offering over 165 daily flights and 47 nonstop destinations.  Customer response to Southwests entrance in the market, in less than three months time, has been exceptional.  We also introduced Atlanta Customers to Southwests award winning Cargo service, with the opening of a brand new Cargo facility in Atlanta.
rd
As we continue to optimize and align the two airlines, both airlines benefit.  AirTrans strong revenue performance continues to improve.  While there are no plans to connect the two separate brands and networks until next year, we are actively optimizing AirTrans stand alone network.  By repurposing less profitable flying, we have created the opportunity to improve network returns.  AirTran launched new service from Denver to Cancun this week, and will begin service from San Antonio to Mexico City and Cancun next month; Austin to Cancun next month; and Orange County to Mexico City and Cabo San Lucas in June 2012. AirTran also recently received route authority to commence service between Chicago Midway and Cancun, beginning June 2012, pending Mexican government approval.
The Flight Attendants and Flight Instructors from both airlines reached agreements regarding seniority integration during first quarter 2012, joining the Pilots from both airlines that reached their seniority integration agreement in December 2011.  I commend these Employees for successfully reaching a key step in the integration process. We continue to work and make progress on seniority integration agreements with our remaining unions.
We have a tremendous amount of work ahead of us to complete the integration in 2014, but we are very pleased with our progress.In 2011, we produced $80 million in net pre-tax synergies, and we produced approximately $40 million in net pre-tax synergies in first quarter 2012, alone.  We expect to realize total net pre-tax annual synergies of $400 million in 2013 (excluding acquisition and integration expenses).
 
The Company incurred $13 million in expenses (before taxes) associated with the acquisition and integration of AirTran during first quarter 2012, representing a cumulative total of $155 million in acquisition and integration costs.  The Company expects total acquisition and integration costs will be approximately $500 million.
 
 
 
 
/more
 
 
 
Fleet
We celebrated the momentous arrival of our first Boeing 737-800 in March, which entered revenue service last week, stated Kelly.  The -800 is an integral component of our fleet modernization plan, bringing 38 more seats than a Boeing 737-700, lower unit costs, and enhanced scheduling flexibility to consider exciting new opportunities. We expect to take delivery of 33 -800s this year.
We also began to retrofit our 737-700 fleet with an updated cabin interior.   enhances Customer comfort, personal space, and the overall travel experience. It also allows for six additional seats.  We currently anticipate that all 372 -700s in the Southwest Airlines fleet will receive the makeover by first half 2013.
Evolve: The New Southwest Experience
Evolve
Liquidity
Net cash provided by operations for first quarter 2012 was $1.2 billion, and capital expenditures were $127 million.  As a result, the Company generated $1.1 billion in free cash flow* in first quarter 2012.
On August 5, 2011, the Companys Board of Directors authorized a share repurchase program to acquire up to $500 million of the Companys common stock following such authorization.  As of March 31, 2012, the Company had purchased approximately 33 million shares of common stock under such authorization for approximately $275 million.  The Company repaid $431 million in debt during first quarter 2012, and is scheduled to repay approximately $130 million in debt for the remainder of 2012.  As of April 18, the Company had approximately $3.9 billion in cash and short-term investments.   In addition, the Company had a fully available unsecured revolving credit line of $800 million.
th
 
Awards and Recognitions
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Southwest will discuss its first quarter 2012 results on a conference call at 12:30 p.m. Eastern Time today.  A live broadcast of the conference call will also be available at
http://southwest.investorroom.com.
 
*See Note Regarding use of Non-GAAP financial measures.
 
Cautionary Statement Regarding Forward-Looking Statements
 
This news release contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  Specific forward-looking statements include, without limitation, statements related to (i) the Companys financial outlook and projected results of operations; (ii) the Companys plans and expectations with respect to its acquisition of AirTran, including without limitation anticipated integration timeframes and anticipated costs and benefits results associated with the acquisition; (iii) the Companys fleet modernization plans and the Companys related financial and operational expectations; and (iv) the Companys growth plans and expectations, including network and capacity plans and expectations. These forward-looking statements are based on the Company's current intent, expectations, and projections and are not guarantees of future performance.  These statements involve risks, uncertainties, assumptions, and other factors that are difficult to predict and that could cause actual results to vary materially from those expressed in or indicated by them.  Factors include, among others, (i) changes in the price of aircraft fuel, the impact of hedge accounting, and any changes to the Companys fuel hedging strategies and positions; (ii) the Companys ability to successfully integrate AirTran and realize the expected synergies and other benefits from the acquisition; (iii) the impact of the economy on demand for the Companys services and the impact of fuel prices, economic conditions, and actions of competitors on the Companys business decisions, plans, and strategies; (iv) the Companys ability to timely and effectively implement, transition, and maintain the necessary information technology systems and infrastructure to support its operations and initiatives; (v) the Companys ability to timely and effectively prioritize its strategic initiatives and related expenditures; (vi) the Companys dependence on third parties with respect to certain of its initiatives; (vii) the impact of governmental and other regulation related to the Companys operations; (viii) the Companys ability to maintain positive relations with employees and employee representatives and to timely and effectively address collective bargaining agreements; and (ix) other factors, as described in the Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission, including the detailed factors discussed under the heading "Risk Factors" in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011.
 
/more 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  /more
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  /more
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  /more
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  /more
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  /more
 
 
 
 
 
 
  /more
 
 
 
 
 
 
  /more
 
 
 
 
 
 
  /more
 
 
 
 
 
 
 /more
 
 
 
 
 
 
/more 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  /more
 
 
 
 
 
 
  /more
 
 
 
 
 
 
  /more
 
 
 
 
 
 
/more 
 
 
 
NOTE REGARDING USE OF NON-GAAP FINANCIAL MEASURES
 
The Companys consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (GAAP). These GAAP financial statements include (i) unrealized non-cash adjustments and reclassifications, which can be significant, as a result of accounting requirements and elections made under accounting pronouncements relating to derivative instruments and hedging and (ii) other charges the Company believes are not indicative of its ongoing operational performance.
 
As a result, the Company also provides financial information in this release that was not prepared in accordance with GAAP and should not be considered as an alternative to the information prepared in accordance with GAAP. The Company provides supplemental non-GAAP financial information, including results that it refers to as economic, which the Companys management utilizes to evaluate its ongoing financial performance and the Company believes provides greater transparency to investors as supplemental information to its GAAP results. The Companys economic financial results differ from GAAP results in that they only include the actual cash settlements from fuel hedge contracts--all reflected within Fuel and oil expense in the period of settlement. Thus, Fuel and oil expense on an economic basis reflects the Companys actual net cash outlays for fuel during the applicable period, inclusive of settled fuel derivative contracts. Any net premium costs paid related to option contracts are reflected as a component of Other (gains) losses, net, for both GAAP and non-GAAP (including economic) purposes in the period of contract settlement. These economic results provide a better measure of the impact of the Companys fuel hedges on its operating performance and liquidity since they exclude the unrealized, non-cash adjustments and reclassifications that are recorded in GAAP results in accordance with accounting guidance relating to derivative instruments, and they reflect all cash settlements related to fuel derivative contracts within Fuel and oil expense. This enables the Companys management, as well as investors, to consistently assess the Companys operating performance on a year-over-year or quarter-over-quarter basis after considering all efforts in place to manage fuel expense. However, because these measures are not determined in accordance with GAAP, such measures are susceptible to varying calculations and not all companies calculate the measures in the same manner. As a result, the aforementioned measures, as presented, may not be directly comparable to similarly titled measures presented by other companies.
 
Further information on (i) the Companys fuel hedging program, (ii) the requirements and accounting associated with accounting for derivative instruments, and (iii) the causes of hedge ineffectiveness and/or mark-to-market gains or losses from derivative instruments is included in the Companys Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011, as well as subsequent quarterly filings.
 
In addition to its economic financial measures, as defined above, the Company has also provided other non-GAAP financial measures as a result of items that the Company believes are not indicative of its ongoing operations.  These include expenses associated with the Companys acquisition and integration of AirTran.  The Company believes that evaluation of its financial performance can be enhanced by a presentation of results that exclude the impact of these items in order to evaluate the results on a comparative basis with results in prior periods that do not include such items and as a basis for evaluating operating results in future periods.  As a result of the Companys acquisition of AirTran, which closed on May 2, 2011, the Company has incurred and expects to continue to incur substantial charges associated with integration of the two companies.  While the Company cannot predict the exact timing or amounts of such charges, it does expect to treat the charges as special items in its future presentation of non-GAAP results.
 
The Company has also provided other supplemental non-GAAP financial information on a combined basis.  This supplemental non-GAAP financial information on a combined basis includes specified combined financial results of the Company and AirTran for periods prior to May 2, 2011, as if the acquisition had occurred prior to the beginning of the applicable reporting period, but excludes any impact of purchase accounting prior to May 2, 2011.  AirTrans historical financial information included in the combined presentation has been conformed to the Companys financial statement classification where appropriate.  The Company believes that evaluation of its financial performance can be enhanced by a presentation of combined results in order to evaluate its prior, current or future period results on a more meaningful, consistent year-over-year basis.
 
The Company has also provided free cash flow, which is a non-GAAP financial measure.  The Company believes free cash flow is a meaningful measure because it demonstrates the Companys ability to service its debt, pay dividends and make investments to enhance shareholder value.  Although free cash flow is commonly used as a measure of liquidity, definitions of free cash flow may differ; therefore, the Company is providing an explanation of its calculation for free cash flow.   For the three months ended March 31, 2012, the Company generated over $1.1 billion in free cash flow, calculated as operating cash flows of approximately $1.2 billion less capital expenditures of $127 million.
 
 
  ***
 


