FILE:GCI/GCI-8K-20060327165819.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
TEXT:
ITEM: Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 1.02. Termination of a Material Definitive Agreement.
On March 27, 2006, Gannett Co., Inc. (the "Company") and Douglas H. McCorkindale, the Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Company (the "Board"), mutually agreed that the term of Mr. McCorkindale's employment under his employment agreement will not be extended and will end effective June 30, 2006.
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On March 27, 2006, the Company announced that its Board has elected Arthur H. Harper to serve as a director of the Company effective March 31, 2006. Mr. Harper has not yet been named to a Board committee.
A press release announcing the election of Mr. Harper is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Pursuant to requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Monday, March 27, 2006
McLEAN, VA  Arthur H. Harper, retired President and Chief Executive Officer of General Electric's Equipment Services division, has been elected to the Board of Directors of Gannett Co., Inc. (NYSE: GCI) effective March 31, 2006, the company announced today.
"Art is well respected in the world of business and finance, so we are extremely pleased that he chose to join Gannett's Board after his outstanding career at GE," said Craig A. Dubow, Gannett's President and Chief Executive Officer. "His experience and character will be strong assets to Gannett."
Harper served in various roles at GE beginning in 1984 until December 2005. He currently serves on the boards of Stamford Achieves and Yerwood Community Center, Stamford, CT and The Executive Leadership Council, Washington, DC.
With Harper's election, Gannett has eleven directors.
Gannett Co., Inc. is a leading international news and information company that publishes 91 daily newspapers in the USA, including USA TODAY, the nation's largest-selling daily newspaper. The company also owns more than 1,000 non-daily publications in the USA and USA WEEKEND, a weekly newspaper magazine. Gannett subsidiary Newsquest is the United Kingdom's second largest regional newspaper company. Newsquest publishes more than 300 titles, including 17 daily newspapers, and a network of prize-winning Web sites. Gannett also operates 21 television stations in the United States and is an Internet leader with sites sponsored by its TV stations and newspapers including USATODAY.com, one of the most popular news sites on the Web.
For more information, contact:
Tara Connell
Vice President of Corporate Communications
703-854-6049
tjconnel@gannett.com


