FILE:GCI/GCI-8K-20061024165758.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers.
On October 24, 2006, the Company announced that its Board has elected John Jeffry Louis to serve as a director of the Company effective October 23, 2006. Mr. Louis has not yet been named to a Board committee.
A press release announcing the election of Mr. Louis is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
(d) Exhibits 99.1
Press Release Issued October 24, 2006
Pursuant to requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
McLEAN, VA  John Jeffry Louis, chairman and co-founder of Parson Capital Corporation, has been elected to the Board of Directors of Gannett Co., Inc. (NYSE: GCI), effective Oct. 23, 2006, the company announced today.
"Jeff's impressive business credentials and financial acumen, coupled with his strong record of community service, make him a great addition to our Board," said Craig A. Dubow, chairman, president and CEO. "I am very pleased to welcome Jeff to Gannett."
In addition to Parson Capital, Louis has served as co-founder, vice chairman and director of Frye-Louis Capital Management and co-founder and director of Schirf Brewing Company.
He currently is a director of S.C. Johnson & Son, Inc.; the Johnson Financial Group; The City Bakery LLC; and Eximious, Inc. He also serves on a number of civic and private boards, including The Chicago Council on Foreign Relations; Northwestern University; Lycee Francais de Chicago; and Deerfield Academy.
With Louis' election, Gannett's Board has eight members.
Gannett Co., Inc. is a leading international news and information company that publishes 90 daily newspapers in the USA, including USA TODAY, the nation's largest-selling daily newspaper. The company also owns nearly 1,000 non-daily publications in the USA and USA WEEKEND, a weekly newspaper magazine. Gannett subsidiary Newsquest is the United Kingdom's second largest regional newspaper company. Newsquest publishes nearly 300 titles, including 17 daily newspapers, and a network of prize-winning Web sites. Gannett also operates 23 television stations in the United States and is an Internet leader with sites sponsored by its TV stations and newspapers including USATODAY.com, one of the most popular news sites on the Web.
Media inquiries:
Tara Connell
Vice President of Corporate Communications
703-854-6049
tjconnel@gannett.com


