FILE:GCI/GCI-8K-20081030180858.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Principal Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Principal Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On October 29, 2008, the Gannett Board of Directors elected Howard Elias and Scott McCune to serve as directors of the Company, effective October 30, 2008. Their Board committee assignments will be determined at a later date.
A press release announcing the election of Mr. Elias and Mr. McCune to the Gannett Board of Directors is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Press Release issued October 30, 2008.
Pursuant to requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
Thursday, Oct. 30, 2008
McLEAN, VA  The Board of Directors of Gannett Co., Inc. (NYSE: GCI) has elected two new directors, effective immediately.
 
 
"Howard Elias and Scott McCune are top executives in their fields, and will bring not only expertise to our board, but also depth in the key areas of technology and marketing," said Craig A. Dubow, chairman, president and chief executive officer of Gannett. "These two professionals are great additions to our board and we welcome them."
With this election, Gannett has ten directors.
Gannett Co., Inc. is a leading international news and information company that publishes 85 daily newspapers in the USA, including USA TODAY, the nation's largest-selling daily newspaper. The company also owns nearly 900 non-daily publications in the USA and USA WEEKEND, a weekly newspaper magazine. Gannett subsidiary Newsquest is the United Kingdom's second largest regional newspaper company. Newsquest publishes 17 daily paid-for titles, approximately 300 weekly newspapers, magazines and trade publications, and a network of award-winning Web sites. Gannett also operates 23 television stations in the United States and is an Internet leader with sites sponsored by its TV stations and newspapers including USATODAY.com, one of the most popular news sites on the Web.
Media inquiries:
Tara Connell
Vice President of Corporate Communications
703-854-6049
tjconnel@gannett.com


