FILE:GCI/GCI-8K-20091015091147.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Gannett Co., Inc. announced that Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Craig A. Dubow returned from a temporary medical leave of absence, effective October 15, 2009.
A press release making this announcement is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Press Release dated October 15, 2009.
 
Pursuant to requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
October 15, 2009
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
McLEAN, VA  Gannett (NYSE:GCI) announced that Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Craig Dubow returned today from his temporary medical leave of absence following back surgery June 15, 2009.
"I am glad to be back and returning to the day-to-day responsibilities at Gannett," said Dubow. "I feel very good about my personal health and the company's. As our estimated third quarter earnings report indicated a few weeks ago, the company is performing well and continuing to execute against our strategic priorities. I want to recognize and extend my sincere appreciation to all Gannett employees for achieving these results."
Gannett Co., Inc. (NYSE: GCI) is an international news and information company operating on multiple platforms including the Internet, mobile, newspapers, magazines and TV stations. Gannett is an Internet leader with hundreds of newspaper and TV Web sites; CareerBuilder.com, the nation's top employment site; USATODAY.com; and more than 80 local MomsLikeMe.com sites. Gannett publishes 84 daily U.S. newspapers, including USA TODAY, the nation's largest-selling daily newspaper, and more than 700 magazines and other non-dailies including USA WEEKEND. Gannett also operates 23 television stations in 19 U.S. markets. Gannett subsidiary Newsquest is the United Kingdom's second largest regional newspaper company with 17 daily paid-for titles, more than 200 weekly newspapers, magazines and trade publications, and a network of Web sites.
 
 


