FILE:GCI/GCI-8K-20090616070849.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On June 15, 2009, Gannett Co., Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Craig A. Dubow will be on a temporary medical leave of absence following back surgery, effective June 15, 2009. Mr. Dubow will remain Chairman of the Board of Directors during his leave of absence. Gracia C. Martore, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will serve as the Company's principal executive officer until such time as Mr. Dubow is able to return to work.
A press release announcing Mr. Dubow's temporary leave of absence and Ms. Martore's assumption of the duties of principal executive officer during Mr. Dubow's leave of absence is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
 
 
Press Release dated June 15, 2009.
Pursuant to requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
 
 
McLEAN, VA  Gannett Co., Inc. (NYSE: GCI) announced that Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer Craig Dubow will be on a temporary medical leave of absence following back surgery. Gracia C. Martore, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, will serve as the Company's principal executive officer until such time as Mr. Dubow is able to return to work.
"I look forward to a full recovery," said Dubow. "I am confident that Gracia and our strong, experienced management team will continue to execute our strategic plan while I am recovering."
About Gannett
Gannett Co., Inc. is an international news and information company operating on multiple platforms including the Internet, mobile, newspapers, magazines and TV stations. Gannett is an Internet leader with hundreds of newspaper and TV Web sites; CareerBuilder.com, the nation's top employment site; USATODAY.com; and more than 80 local MomsLikeMe.com sites. Gannett publishes 84 daily U.S. newspapers, including USA TODAY, the nation's largest-selling daily newspaper, and more than 700 magazines and other non-dailies including USA WEEKEND. Gannett also operates 23 television stations in 19 U.S. markets. Gannett subsidiary Newsquest is the United Kingdom's second largest regional newspaper company with 17 daily paid-for titles, more than 200 weekly newspapers, magazines and trade publications, and a network of Web sites.
Media inquiries:
Tara Connell
703-854-6049
tjconnel@gannett.com


