FILE:GCI/GCI-8K-20100927113433.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant	Other Events	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Creation of a Direct Financial Obligation or an Obligation under an Off-Balance Sheet Arrangement of a Registrant
ITEM: Other Events
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
The information in Item 8.01 is incorporated by reference into this Item 2.03.
 
On September 27, 2010, Gannett Co., Inc. ("Gannett") sold $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 6.375% Senior Notes due 2015 (the "2015 Notes") and $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its 7.125% Senior Notes due 2018 (the "2018 Notes," and together with the 2015 Notes, the "Notes"). The Notes were offered only to eligible purchasers through a private placement and have not been registered under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or any state securities laws. Gannett will pay interest on the Notes semi-annually, in arrears, on March 1 and September 1 of each year, commencing March 1, 2011, to holders of record on the immediately preceding February 15 and August 15. The Notes will rank equally with Gannett's outstanding public bonds and credit agreements. The Notes are guaranteed by all of Gannett's subsidiaries that guarantee its obligations under its credit agreements on a senior basis.
The Notes may become subject to redemption under certain circumstances, including a change of control (as defined in the Notes) of Gannett. In addition, after September 1, 2014, Gannett may, at its option, redeem the 2018 Notes at the redemption prices and subject to terms set forth in the Notes, together with accrued and unpaid interest thereon, if any, to the redemption date.
The Notes also provide for certain customary events of default, including, among others, nonpayment of principal or interest, bankruptcy and insolvency events, and cross acceleration, which would permit, or automatically cause, as applicable, the principal, premium, if any, interest and other monetary obligations on all the then outstanding Notes to be declared due and payable immediately.
On September 27, 2010, the company issued a press release announcing the completion of the offering and issuance of the Notes. A copy of the press release is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1.
 
 
See Index to Exhibits attached hereto.
The company agrees to furnish to the Commission, upon request, a copy of each agreement with respect to long-term debt not filed herewith in reliance upon the exemption from filing applicable to any series of debt which does not exceed 10% of the total consolidated assets of the company.
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned thereunder duly authorized.
 
Date: September 27, 2010
 

Exhibit 99.1
News Release
 
McLEAN, VA  Gannett Co., Inc. (NYSE: GCI) today announced the successful completion of its previously announced private placement offering of $250 million aggregate principal amount of its 6.375% Senior Notes due 2015 and $250 million aggregate principal amount of its 7.125% Senior Notes due 2018.
The Company intends to use the net proceeds from the offering to repay borrowings outstanding under its revolving credit facilities and term loan.
The Notes have not been registered under the Securities Act or any state securities laws and may not be offered or sold in the United States absent registration except pursuant to an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act and applicable state securities laws. This press release does not constitute an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy the Notes or any other securities.
Gannett Co., Inc. (NYSE: GCI) is an international news and information company operating on multiple platforms including the Internet, mobile, newspapers, magazines and TV stations. Gannett is an Internet leader with hundreds of newspaper and TV web sites; CareerBuilder.com, the nation's top employment site; USATODAY.com; and more than 80 local MomsLikeMe.com sites. Gannett publishes 82 daily U.S. newspapers, including USA TODAY, the nation's largest-selling daily newspaper, and more than 600 magazines and other non-dailies including USA WEEKEND. Gannett also operates 23 television stations in 19 U.S. markets. Gannett subsidiary Newsquest is one of the UK's leading regional community news providers, with 17 daily paid-for titles, more than 200 weekly newspapers, magazines and trade publications, and a network of web sites.
 


