FILE:GCI/GCI-8K-20100716085239.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Results of Operations and Financial Condition	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Results of Operations and Financial Condition
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
Item 2.02 Results of Operations and Financial Condition.
On July 16, 2010, Gannett Co., Inc. reported its consolidated financial results for the second quarter and year-to-date period ended June 27, 2010. A copy of this press release is furnished with this report as an exhibit.
Item 9.01. Financial Statements and Exhibits.
(d) Exhibits
See Index to Exhibits attached hereto.
 
Pursuant to requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 

Exhibit 99.1
McLEAN, VA  Gannett Co., Inc. (NYSE: GCI) reported today that 2010 second quarter earnings per diluted share were $0.81 including a net gain from discontinued operations of $0.08 per share. Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations, on a GAAP (generally accepted accounting principles) basis for the second quarter of 2010 were $0.73 compared to $0.30 for the second quarter of 2009. Results for both quarters included special items as noted below. Earnings per share from continuing operations and excluding special items for the second quarter were $0.61 versus $0.46 in the same quarter last year.
Results for the second quarter of 2010 include a $28.7 million ($0.12 per share) net tax benefit due primarily to the expiration of the statutes of limitations and the release of certain reserves related to the sale of a business in a prior year.
Results for the second quarter of 2009 included: a $42.7 million pre-tax gain related to the company's debt exchange ($26.1 million after-tax or $0.11 per share); $16.3 million in pre-tax costs related to workforce restructuring ($10.2 million after-tax or $0.04 per share); $47.4 million of pre-tax non-cash charges related primarily to asset impairments in the company's publishing segment ($29.6 million after-tax or $0.13 per share); and a $28.0 million non-cash charge for asset write-downs ($24.2 million after-tax or $0.10 per share).
During the quarter, the company completed the sale of The Honolulu Advertiser and its related assets as well as a small directory publishing operation in Michigan. Results for the second quarter and year-to-date periods exclude the net gain and operating results from these former properties which have been reclassified to discontinued operations.
Details of these special items and their effect on results are included on the Statements of Income, Business Segment Information and Non-GAAP Financial Information schedules which follow.
"We continued to make progress on our goals to provide engaging, relevant content any way the consumer wants while also expanding our reach and offering better solutions for our advertisers," said Craig A. Dubow, chairman and chief executive officer. "Our strong results this quarter reflect very positive revenue trends for our Broadcast and Digital segments and moderating revenue declines in Publishing as we continued to close the revenue gap in the quarter. Stronger core advertising demand and increased political spending drove revenue growth in Broadcasting while positive revenue results at CareerBuilder and PointRoll contributed to revenue growth in the Digital segment. In our Publishing segment, this quarter was the best comparison quarter for advertising revenues since mid-2007. We benefited from continuing efficiency efforts company-wide as well as lower newsprint expense. As a result, we generated substantially higher profitability and operating cash flow in all of our business segments."
 
Net income attributable to Gannett, adjusted for special items, totaled $146.5 million in the second quarter compared to $107.9 million in the second quarter of 2009, a 35.7 percent increase. Operating cash flow (defined as operating income plus depreciation, amortization and facility consolidation and asset impairment charges) was $327.0 million compared to $250.9 million in the second quarter a year ago.
Reported operating revenues in the second quarter were $1.37 billion compared to $1.39 billion in the second quarter last year, a decline of 1.6 percent or $22.2 million. The company exited a UK-based commercial printing business in the second quarter of 2009 that generated revenue of $12.5 million in that quarter. The exchange rate also had an impact on year-over-year comparisons. On a pro forma basis, adjusted for currency, total operating revenue in the second quarter was just 0.4 percent lower than the second quarter last year. The year-over-year pro-forma, constant currency revenue comparisons improved almost 4 percentage points relative to the first quarter of this year.
Reported operating expenses totaled $1.1 billion compared to $1.2 billion in the second quarter a year ago. Excluding special items in both quarters, operating expenses declined $89.1 million or 7.5 percent. The decline reflects cost control and efficiency efforts company-wide as well as lower newsprint expense partially offset by substantially lower furlough savings in the second quarter this year.
Average diluted shares outstanding in the second quarter of 2010 totaled 241,505,000.
Publishing segment operating income excluding special items increased $31.0 million or 20.8 percent to $180.3 million compared to the second quarter last year. Publishing segment operating cash flow totaled $214.6 million, an increase of 23.3 percent from the comparable amount in 2009's second quarter. The increase reflects the impact of efficiency efforts in this and previous quarters, lower newsprint expense, as well as lower revenue declines relative to the second quarter last year, partially offset by the relative absence of furlough savings of approximately $20 million.
Publishing segment operating revenues in the second quarter were $1.0 billion compared to $1.1 billion in the second quarter last year, a decline of 6.0 percent. On a pro forma, constant currency basis publishing segment operating revenues would have been 4.4 percent lower. On the same basis, publishing revenue comparisons were almost 3 percentage points better than the first quarter of this year.
Reported advertising revenues in the second quarter were $692.2 million, a decline of 5.7 percent compared to the second quarter last year. On a constant currency basis, advertising revenues were 4.8 percent lower. Advertising revenues were 4.6 percent lower in the U.S. and 6.4 percent lower, in pounds, at Newsquest. The decline in total advertising on a constant currency basis was about 4 percentage points better than first quarter year-over-year comparisons. On the same basis, retail and classified advertising were 3.5 percentage points and 5.9 percentage points better, respectively, than the first quarter comparisons. Total advertising revenues in June declined 3.6 percent, excluding the impact of currency and it was the best comparison month since early 2007.
 
Ad revenue percentage changes on a constant currency basis for the retail, national and classified categories for the publishing segment as well as domestic publishing and Newsquest for the quarter were as follows:
Classified revenues declined 5.0 percent in the quarter as classified advertising in the U.S. was 3.0 percent lower and at Newsquest it was down 6.8 percent, in pounds. Automotive was 2.5 percent higher, and employment and real estate were down 2.5 percent and 10.5 percent, respectively. Adjusting for the impact of currency, automotive would have been up 3.1 percent while employment and real estate would have declined 1.0 percent and 9.7 percent, respectively. Second quarter year-over-year comparisons were better for all three categories relative to the first quarter of 2010: by 5.1 percentage points for automotive; by 9.5 percentage points for employment; and by 5.0 percentage points for real estate. The year-over-year classified revenue comparisons in both U.S. Community Publishing and Newsquest were almost 6 percentage points better than first quarter comparisons.
On a constant currency basis, the percentage changes in the classified categories in total publishing, domestic publishing and Newsquest for the second quarter of 2010 were as follows:
National advertising declined 2.9 percent in the quarter. A double-digit increase in national advertising in U.S. Community Publishing was offset by lower results at USA TODAY which continued to be impacted by softness in the travel-related categories. The automotive, retail and packaged goods categories improved during the quarter at USA TODAY while the entertainment, travel, telecommunications and pharmaceutical categories lagged last year. Paid advertising pages totaled 580 compared with 602 in last year's second quarter.
Reported operating expenses in the second quarter declined 15.7 percent and totaled $846.7 million. Operating expenses, excluding special items, were down 10.2 percent. The expense reduction reflects the impact of continuing efficiency efforts and substantially lower newsprint costs offset, in part, by lower furlough savings compared with the second quarter last year. Newsprint expense in the second quarter on a pro
 
forma basis was 31.0 percent lower as consumption and usage prices both declined in the quarter. Newsprint expense savings are expected again for the third quarter of 2010, but at a reduced level from that realized in the first half of the year due to rising prices.
Operating income for Broadcasting was $78.4 million, an increase of 56.0 percent compared to the second quarter last year. The increase, excluding special items, was $26.1 million or 49.8 percent and reflects substantially higher revenue growth offset by a modest increase in operating expenses of 5.0 percent. Operating cash flow increased 44.5 percent compared to the same quarter a year ago and totaled $86.5 million. Broadcasting revenues (which include Captivate) increased 20.3 percent and totaled $184.0 million compared to $153.0 million last year. The revenue increase reflects stronger core revenues, substantially higher advertising related to political and issue spending and solid revenue growth at Captivate. Operating expenses for the broadcasting segment, excluding special items, totaled $105.6 million in the quarter compared to $100.6 million in the second quarter last year. The increase reflects higher advertising sales costs and the absence of furlough savings of approximately $3 million in the second quarter last year offset, in part, by the impact of efficiency and cost control efforts.
Television revenues were $177.5 million compared to $148.4 million in the second quarter last year reflecting a 60 percent plus increase in the automotive category, double digit increases in retail and packaged goods as well as a $9.9 million increase in politically related advertising. Based on current trends, we expect the percentage increase in television advertising revenues to be in the mid-twenties for the third quarter of 2010 compared to the third quarter of 2009. However, it is early in the quarter to gauge results, particularly for political spending which will be placed primarily late in the quarter.
The digital segment includes results for CareerBuilder, PointRoll, ShopLocal, Planet Discover, Schedule Star and Ripple6.
Digital operating revenues increased 8.3 percent to $154.1 million in the quarter compared to $142.4 million in the second quarter last year. The increase reflects mid-single digit revenue growth at CareerBuilder; the first quarter of revenue growth at CareerBuilder since 2008's fourth quarterDouble digit revenue growth at PointRoll and ShopLocal also contributed to the increase. Digital operating expenses were $126.6 million in the quarter, an increase of 2.1 percent while CareerBuilder's operating expenses were flat in the quarter. As a result, segment operating income increased 49.4 percent while operating cash flow was up 30.1 percent.
.
Company-wide digital revenues, which include the Digital Segment and all digital revenues generated by the other business segments, were $252.2 million, 9.7 percent higher in the second quarter compared to the second quarter in 2009 and were almost 19 percent of total operating revenues.
The company's equity earnings include its share of operating results from unconsolidated investees including the California Newspapers Partnership, Texas-New Mexico Newspapers Partnership, Tucson newspaper partnership and other online/digital businesses including Classified Ventures.
The $4.7 million increase in equity income in unconsolidated investees reflects stronger results for certain newspaper partnerships and certain digital investments, particularly Classified Ventures.
 
Interest expense was $42.2 million compared to $44.0 million in the second quarter a year ago. The 4.1 percent decline reflects the impact of significantly lower average debt balances partially offset by a higher average interest rate. Debt was reduced by more than $170 million during the quarter.
The $19.5 million decrease in other non-operating items reflects primarily the impact in the second quarter 2009 of several special items. Excluding those one-time items, other non-operating income would have been $1.9 million in the second quarter of 2009 compared to a $2.9 million loss in the second quarter of 2010. The decline reflects losses associated with certain financial investments.
The reported tax rate of 22.0 percent includes a net tax benefit due primarily to the expiration of the statutes of limitations and the release of certain reserves related to the sale of a business in prior years. Excluding the net benefit of these items, the tax rate for the quarter would have been 34.8 percent compared to 32.0 percent in the second quarter last year.
At the end of the quarter, Gannett had more than 100 domestic publishing Web sites, including USATODAY.com, one of the most popular newspaper sites on the Web. The company also had Web sites in all of its 19 television markets. In June, Gannett's consolidated domestic Internet audience share was 45.0 million unique visitors reaching 20.9 percent of the Internet audience, according to Comscore Media Metrix. Newsquest is also an Internet leader in the UK where its network of Web sites attracted over 72 million monthly page impressions from approximately 8.0 million unique users. CareerBuilder's unique visitors in June totaled 21.6 million.
All references in this release to "pro forma" or "comparable" results and "operating cash flow" are to non-GAAP financial measures. Management believes that use of these measures allow investors and management to measure, analyze and compare the company's results in a more meaningful and consistent manner. A reconciliation of the non-GAAP operating cash flow amounts to the company's consolidated statements of income is attached.
As previously announced, the company will hold an earnings conference call at 10:00 a.m. ET today. The call can be accessed via a live Webcast through the Investor Relations section of the company's Web site, , or listen-only conference lines. U.S. callers should dial 1-800-820-0231 and international callers should dial 416-640-5926 at least 10 minutes prior to the scheduled start of the call. The confirmation code for the conference call is 2996740. To access the replay, dial 1-888-203-1112 in the U.S. International callers should use the number 719-457-0820. The confirmation code for the replay is 2996740. Materials related to the call will be available through the Investor Relations section of the company's Web site Friday morning.
www.gannett.com
Gannett Co., Inc. (NYSE: GCI) is an international news and information company operating on multiple platforms including the Internet, mobile, newspapers, magazines and TV stations. Gannett is an Internet leader with hundreds of newspaper and TV web sites; CareerBuilder.com, the nation's top employment site; USATODAY.com; and more than 80 local MomsLikeMe.com sites. Gannett publishes 82 daily U.S. newspapers, including USA TODAY, the nation's largest-selling daily newspaper, and more than 600 magazines and other non-dailies including USA WEEKEND. Gannett also operates 23 television stations in 19 U.S. markets. Gannett subsidiary Newsquest is one of the UK's leading regional community news providers, with 17 daily paid-for titles, more than 200 weekly newspapers, magazines and trade publications, and a network of web sites.
Certain statements in this press release may be forward looking in nature or "forward looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. The forward looking statements contained in this press release are subject to a number of risks, trends and uncertainties that could
 
cause actual performance to differ materially from these forward looking statements. A number of those risks, trends and uncertainties are discussed in the company's SEC reports, including the company's annual report on Form 10-K and quarterly reports on Form 10-Q. Any forward looking statements in this press release should be evaluated in light of these important risk factors.
Gannett is not responsible for updating the information contained in this press release beyond the published date, or for changes made to this press release by wire services, Internet service providers or other media.
 
Gannett Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries Unaudited, in thousands of dollars (except per share amounts)
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
Gannett Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries Unaudited, in thousands of dollars (except per share amounts)
CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
 
Gannett Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries
BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION
Unaudited, in thousands of dollars
 
Gannett Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries
BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION
Unaudited, in thousands of dollars
 
Gannett Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries Unaudited, in thousands of dollars
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION
"Operating cash flow," a non-GAAP measure, is defined as operating income plus depreciation, amortization and facility consolidation and asset impairment charges. Management believes that use of this measure allows investors and management to measure, analyze and compare the performance of its business segment operations at a more detailed level and in a meaningful and consistent manner.
A reconciliation of these non-GAAP amounts to the company's operating income, which the company believes is the most directly comparable financial measure calculated and presented in accordance with GAAP on the company's consolidated statements of income, follows:
Thirteen weeks ended June 27, 2010
Thirteen weeks ended June 28, 2009
Twenty-six weeks ended June 27, 2010
Twenty-six weeks ended June 28, 2009
 
Gannett Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries Unaudited, in thousands of dollars (except per share amounts)
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION
In addition to the results reported in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") included in this press release, the company has provided information regarding operating income, non-operating (expense) income, income before taxes, net income attributable to Gannett Co., Inc., and diluted earnings per share ("EPS") excluding certain special items. Management believes operating income, non-operating (expense) income, income before taxes, net income attributable to Gannett Co., Inc. and EPS excluding these items better reflect the ongoing performance of the company and enables management and investors to meaningfully trend, analyze and benchmark the performance of the company's operations. These measures are also more comparable to financial measures reported by our competitors. Operating income, non-operating (expense) income, income before taxes, net income attributable to Gannett Co., Inc., and EPS excluding these items should not be considered a substitute for these computations calculated in accordance with GAAP.
The tables below reconcile these measures prepared in accordance with GAAP to these measures excluding special items:
 
Gannett Co., Inc. and Subsidiaries Unaudited, in thousands of dollars (except per share amounts)
NON-GAAP FINANCIAL INFORMATION
In addition to the results reported in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States ("GAAP") included in this press release, the company has provided information regarding operating income, non-operating (expense) income, income before taxes, net income attributable to Gannett Co., Inc., and diluted earnings per share ("EPS") excluding certain special items. Management believes operating income, non-operating (expense) income, income before taxes, net income attributable to Gannett Co., Inc. and EPS excluding these items better reflect the ongoing performance of the company and enables management and investors to meaningfully trend, analyze and benchmark the performance of the company's operations. These measures are also more comparable to financial measures reported by our competitors. Operating income, non-operating (expense) income, income before taxes, net income attributable to Gannett Co., Inc., and EPS excluding these items should not be considered a substitute for these computations calculated in accordance with GAAP.
The tables below reconcile these measures prepared in accordance with GAAP to these measures excluding special items:


