FILE:GCI/GCI-8K-20110916170044.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Item 5.02. Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers; Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers.
On September 15, 2011, Gannett Co., Inc. (the "Company") issued a press release announcing that chairman and chief executive officer Craig A. Dubow will take a leave of absence to address continuing issues relating to prior medical conditions, effective immediately. Gracia C. Martore, president and chief operating officer, will serve as the Company's principal executive officer until such time as Mr. Dubow is able to return to work.
A press release announcing Mr. Dubow's leave of absence and Ms. Martore's assumption of the duties of principal executive officer during Mr. Dubow's leave of absence is attached hereto as Exhibit 99.1 and incorporated herein by reference.
Item 9.01 Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
Press Release dated September 15, 2011.
Pursuant to requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE
Thursday, September 15, 2011
Gannett Chairman and CEO to take medical leave of absence
McLean, VA  Gannett Co., Inc. (NYSE: GCI) announced today that chairman and chief executive officer Craig A. Dubow will take a leave of absence to address continuing issues relating to prior medical conditions. Gracia C. Martore, president and chief operating officer, will serve as principal executive officer during his absence as she did during a prior medical leave in 2009.
Duncan M. McFarland, presiding director, said: "We wish Craig well during this difficult personal time. The Board has confidence in Gracia and our very capable management team to run the day to day operations of the Company, and we believe Gannett won't miss a beat at this important juncture."
"I believe Gannett is in very good hands as we continue to transform the Company and position it for a successful future," said Dubow.
About Gannett
Gannett Co., Inc. (NYSE: GCI) is an international media and marketing solutions company that informs and engages more than 100 million people every month through its powerful network of broadcast, digital, mobile and publishing properties. Our portfolio of trusted brands offers marketers unmatched local-to-national reach and customizable, innovative marketing solutions across any platform. Gannett is committed to connecting people  and the companies who want to reach them  with their interests and communities. For more information, visit .
www.gannett.com
 


