FILE:GCI/GCI-8K-20120514083625.txt.gz
EVENTS:	Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers	Financial Statements and Exhibits
TEXT:
ITEM: Departure of Directors or Certain Officers; Election of Directors; Appointment of Certain Officers: Compensatory Arrangements of Certain Officers
ITEM: Financial Statements and Exhibits
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Check the appropriate box below if the Form 8-K filing is intended to simultaneously satisfy the filing obligation of the registrant under any of the following provisions:
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
On May 14, 2012, Gannett Co., Inc. (the "Company") announced that Paul N. Saleh, the Company's Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, would be leaving the Company on May 20, 2012 to pursue other opportunities.
Michael A. Hart, currently the Company's Vice President and Treasurer, also will serve as interim principal financial officer, effective immediately, until the Company names a permanent Chief Financial Officer. Hart, age 66, joined Gannett in 2000. He has served as Vice President and Treasurer (2002 - present) and Assistant Treasurer (2000 - 2002).
 
(d) Exhibits
See Index to Exhibits attached hereto.
Pursuant to requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned hereunto duly authorized.
 
 

Exhibit 99.1
 
May 14, 2012
Paul Saleh Resigns as Chief Financial Officer of Gannett
McLEAN, VA  Gannett Co., Inc. (NYSE: GCI) announced today that senior vice president and chief financial officer Paul Saleh has resigned to accept a position with a Fortune 200 company. The search for a new chief financial officer for Gannett is currently underway. Effective immediately, Michael Hart, vice president and treasurer, will serve as interim principal financial officer until a permanent CFO is appointed.
Gracia Martore, president and chief executive officer, said, "As a member of our senior management team, Paul played an important role in ensuring the Company's financial strength and implementing our ongoing focus on asset optimization. We appreciate his contributions to Gannett, and we wish him well."
Saleh said, "I am grateful for the opportunity to have worked with Gracia and a very talented leadership team on a plan to position Gannett for success in the digital age."
About Gannett
Gannett Co., Inc. (NYSE: GCI) is an international media and marketing solutions company that informs and engages more than 100 million people every month through its powerful network of broadcast, digital, mobile and publishing properties. Our portfolio of trusted brands offers marketers unmatched local-to-national reach and customizable, innovative marketing solutions across any platform. Gannett is committed to connecting people  and the companies who want to reach them  with their interests and communities. For more information, visit
www.gannett.com.
 


