ITEM 7. Managements Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference from pages 40 through 48 of the Annual Report, under the caption Managements Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition. ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk TJX is exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk on its investment in its Canadian (Winners Merchants, Inc.) and European (T.K. Maxx) operations. As more fully described in the notes to the consolidated financial statements, we hedge a significant portion of our net investment and certain merchandise commitments in these operations with derivative financial instruments. TJX enters into derivative contracts only when there is an underlying economic exposure. TJX utilizes currency forward and swap contracts, designed to offset the gains or losses in the underlying exposures, most of which are recorded directly in shareholders equity. The contracts are executed with banks we believe are creditworthy and are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. We have performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in foreign exchange rates applied to the hedging contracts and the underlying exposures described above. As of January 26, 2002 the analysis indicated that such market movements would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. TJXs cash equivalents and short term investments and certain lines of credit bear variable interest rates. Changes in interest rates affect interest earned and paid by the Company. TJX generally does not use derivative instruments to offset the exposure to changes in interest rates on these items. Instead, TJX believes that the use of primarily fixed rate debt minimizes exposure to market conditions and the ensuing increases and decreases that could arise with variable rate financing. TJX has performed a sensitivity analysis assuming a hypothetical 10% adverse movement in interest rates applied to the maximum variable rate debt outstanding during the previous year. As of January 26, 2002, the analysis indicated that such market movements would not have a material effect on our consolidated financial position, results of operations or cash flows. 10 Table of Contents 
 
